
Cygnus Departure: Cygnus was successfully released by the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and departed the ISS today at 9:10 AM CT with the crew monitoring from the Cupola. The vehicle has several post-departure science objectives to complete prior to destructive re-entry on January 26.
Payloads
Cardinal Heart: The crew performed microscopy ops on the sample chambers. Cardinal Heart studies the effects of change in gravitational force on cardiovascular cells at the cellular and tissue level using engineered heart tissues (EHTs). Microgravity significantly affects heart tissues that perform work and exert an opposite force to gravity and is known to cause molecular and structural abnormalities in cells and tissues that can lead to disease. The investigation could provide new understanding of similar heart issues on Earth and help identify new treatments. 
FLUIDICS: The crew performed the second and three FLUIDICS sessions and performed the hardware closeout. The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
NanoRacks Module-9: The crew performed the 4th operations of sample tube mixtures. NanoRacks Module-09 is a combination of 35 experiments provided by school students from 5 different countries. The experiments are housed within a NanoRacks Module container and is a combination of biological static experiments and some experiments that require crew interaction to mix materials to activate. The experiments within the module are returned to the ground for analysis.
Rodent Research: The crew stowed Rodent Habitats #6 and #8 The Rodent Research Facility provides rodent housing on board the ISS. Animal research is essential for understanding the impacts of spaceflight on the systems of the human body, and for development of potential therapies that will ease harmful responses to space flight. The advisory panel for Animal and Human Biology appointed by the Committee for the Decadal Survey on Biological and Physical Sciences in Space was unanimous in its recommendation that an animal habitat be incorporated as soon as possible into the ISS.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules(SUBSA): The crew removed the current Ampoule (sample 05) from the SUBSA Thermal Chamber and installed a new SUBSA Science Ampoule (sample 10). The objective of the SUBSA investigation is to advance understanding of the processes involved in semiconductor crystal growth. It offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C. Samples are contained in transparent quartz or ceramic ampoules with high definition video imaging available in real-time along with remote commanding of thermal control parameters.
Actiwatch Plus: The crew prepared Actiwatch units for return. The Actiwatch is a waterproof, nonintrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. The device contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data are stored in nonvolatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings: The crew touched each coupon on Antimicrobial Coatings placard. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: In preparation for upcoming planned EVAs, the crew performed the following:

Reviewed the step-by-step EVA sequences via the Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) software.
CWC-I degas
Unstowed hardware from the Airlock not needed for upcoming EVAs and prepared the Airlock to support EVA operations.

Dragon Departure Preparations: The following activities were performed in preparation for SpX-21 departure scheduled for Monday, January 11.

Cargo transfer
Dragon departure On-Board Training

Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Cygnus release
Payloads ops support
Dragon departure OBT

