01-03-2009All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Saturday – rest day for CDR Fincke, FE-1 Lonchakov & FE-2 Magnus.  The crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  At ~9:05am EST, the crewmembers conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  Yuri Lonchakov completed the routine daily servicing of the SM's SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]  At ~5:23am, CDR Fincke powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and conducted, at 5:28am, a ham radio exchange with Technopolis, Mechelen, Antwerpen/Belgium. [Technopolis is a permanent platform for science and technology in Mechelen, Flanders, Belgium. The mission of Technopolis is to bring science and technology to the people, offering permanent and temporary exhibitions, organizing workshops, school activities and other outreach activities for “4-99 years old”: a Science Week and Science Festival, an annual exhibition at the Royal Palace in Brussels and many activities for a variety of organisations (governmental, private and educational). The radio contact with ISS was incorporated in the planning during the Christmas holidays as an extra activity to promote scientific and technical studies to the target group of schoolchildren and students. Questions to Mike were uplinked beforehand. “How long could I live in ISS as a boy of 12 years old, without becoming ill?”; “How is it to make a walk in space?”; “Can you still hear the Big Bang?”; “What do you have to do if you have to do pipi in space?”; “Since when are you an astronaut?”; “Do you recycle your garbage or do you throw it outside?”; “How many days do you stay in the ISS?”; “Are you not afraid to fall to earth when you go outside the ISS?”; “How long do you have to study to become an astronaut?”; “How do you spend your free time in a space station?”]  The station residents conducted their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup & post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR, FE-2), TVIS treadmill (FE-1), IRED/Interim Resistive Exercise Device (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  Working from his discretionary “as time permits” task list, FE-1 Lonchakov performed a session of the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program, using the NIKON D2X digital camera to take telephotos.     [Uplinked target zones were the Kerguelen Island Glaciers, Heard Island, the Panama Canal, general views of the Andes on both sides of track, Patagonia Ice Field Glaciers, and the Falkland Current.]  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Eighteen -- Week 10)    3-D SPACE:    Complete.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  BCAT-3/4 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 3/4):   Planned/Reserve.  BIO-4:    Complete.  BIOLAB:    Planned.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):     In progress.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Samples returned on 1J.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2): Complete.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):   Complete.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):   Complete.  EDR (European Drawer Rack):    Planned.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):   Planned.   ENose (Electronic Nose):   ENose had its first confirmational event on 12/24 and was moved from EXPRESS Rack 2 to a UOP/Black Brick Location on 12/26. “Thank you to the crew for an efficient and early move.”  EPO (Educational Payload Operations):   Reserve.  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  EuTEF (European Technology Exposure Facility):   Science acquisition for DEBIE-2, DOSTEL, EXPOSE, FIPEX, MEDET. On-ground troubleshooting for TRIBOLAB.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory):    FSL is nominal.  GEOFLOW:    GEOFLOW science runs #8 and #9 have been successfully completed on 12/29 and 12/30, respectively. The data was downlinked on 1/2. Science runs will be continued during the next weeks.  HDTV System Test DL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Ice Crystal experiment is going on.  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    In progress.  Integrated Immune:    In progress.  KUBIK-FM1/ KUBIK-FM2 Centrifuge/Incubators:   Completed.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    Reserve.  Marangoni Experiment for ISS in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    In progress.    Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MISSE (Materials ISS Experiment):  Ongoing.  Moon Photography from ISS (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):   Complete.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:    Completed.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY:    In progress.  PADLES (Passive Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    In progress.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):   Complete.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):   Ongoing.  SAMPLE:    Complete.   SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):    “Congratulations on your first SHERE science run, Mike. You did a great job, and they all get easier from here! The first run showed an interesting fluid column with several instability “blobs” (for lack of a better description) along its length, and there was one small blob that seemed to interact with the final break up of the fiber. That's new science for us.”  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    In progress.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    The current Sun observation window has started on 12/26 and is expected to end around 1/7.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):   Complete.  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    Reserve.    Swab (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   Complete.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):  Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    Complete/Planned.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   Ongoing.  CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  