01-08-2009
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Continuing the extensive task of installation & outfitting the FCF CIR (Fluids & Combustion Facility/Combustion Integrated Rack), video-monitored from the ground, CDR Fincke & FE-2 Magnus today changed the original activities plan to do an Ethernet cable swap and then perform the power up sequence and checkout today.    [The Rack Centering activity that was originally scheduled for today has been deferred until next week so that the ground can work on a forward plan to adjust a several rack umbilicals based off the imagery.  To investigate an issue with observed CIR rack movement in the rack bay, the crew was to verify that the rack is structurally secured with alignment guides and snubber pins engaged. Additionally, there is a concern about the clocking on the ARIS Ethernet J47 cable.  In order to proceed with CIR power up and checkout, the crew is to replace the Ethernet cable with the one currently installed in ER3 (EXPRESS Rack 3).]   FE-1 Lonchakov meanwhile performed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP (Harmful Impurities Removal System) by starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #1 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated tonight at ~4:15pm EST before crew sleep, followed tomorrow by Bed #2 regeneration. (Last time done: 12/17-18/08).     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods.  The BMP's regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days.]   Lonchakov also conducted the periodic audit/inventory of Russian medical support system (SMO) kits.  In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-2 Magnus removed & replaced the ECLSS IRFA (Intermodular Ventilation Return Fan).  CDR Fincke conducted the monthly 30-min PEP (Fire Detection & Suppression/Portable Emergency Provisions) safety inspection/audit in the ISS modules.     [The IMS-supported inspection involves verification that PFEs (Portable Fire Extinguishers), PBAs (Portable Breathing Apparatus) and EHTKs (Extension Hose/Tee Kits) are free of damage to ensure their functionality, and to track shelf life/life cycles on the hardware.]   FE-2 Magnus performed the daily flushing of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser).   [The PWD had been found, via several microbial analyses by Sandy, to have bacteria growing in the ambient water.  It is suspected that this is due to the water being stagnant and not used.  The crew now performs daily flushes with 100 mL of deionized water.]  In the RS (Russian Segment), FE-1 Lonchakov worked on the SM ASU (Toilet Facility), performing the monthly 30-min. maintenance/servicing of the facility by changing out replaceable ASU parts with new components, i.e., the urine receptacle (MP) and a filter insert (F-V).  The old parts were discarded as trash.  The FE-2 had 4 hrs on her timeline for deploying and checking out the second Crew Quarter (CQ) rack in Node-2, Starboard 5 (NOD2S5).    [For the initial rotation of the rack away from the wall, Mike Fincke provided assistance.  Sandy then proceeded to make cable connections and to apply power.  Telemetry states and verification of correct wiring connections were later to be made remotely by MCC-H controllers. Each of the two CQs, which arrived on ULF2, has a speaker installed which connects to the Node-2 ATUs (Audio Terminal Units) via the CQ patch panel.  Preflight ground testing has uncovered major audio feedback issues when trying to transmit within ~4 ft of the CQ speaker which, however, can be used for C&W (Caution & Warning) alarm and S/G (Space-to-Ground) monitoring purposes until the problem is fixed.]  After unstowing the water transfer equipment yesterday, Yuri Lonchakov today completed transferring water from the Progress 31P Rodnik tanks to the SM (Service Module).   [Totaling 60 L of water from BV-1 tank to fill two full EDVs (plus 16 L remaining), and 80 L from BV-2 to fill three full EDVs (plus 14 L remaining).  16+14 L will then fill one EDV, with 10 L remaining, which was to be transferred to EDV #802.]  Sandy Magnus conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew's water calldowns are sent up every other week.   [The new card (18-0006H) lists 39 CWCs (~1,250.9 L total) for the four types of water identified on board: technical water (673.8 L, for Elektron electrolysis), potable water (530.4 L, incl. 174.6 L currently off-limit because of Wautersia bacteria), condensate water (0.0 L), waste/EMU dump and other (46.7 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  Lonchakov spent ~1.5 hrs on the TVIS for the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, his first time, using the TVIS in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.   [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmembers worked out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a medium pace of 6.5 km/h, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace.]  CEO (Crew Earth Observations) photo target uplinked for today was Toshka Lakes, Egypt (looking left for general oblique views and detailed overlapping frames of lake shorelines.  The lakes appear between the line of track and the prominent line of the Nile River).  CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  <http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/>  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  