01-01-2012January 01, 2012ISS On-Orbit Status 01/01/12  Happy New Year!  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Off-duty day for the Expedition 30/31 crew of CDR Dan Burbank, FE-1 Anton Shkaplerov, FE-2 Anatoly Ivanishin, FE-4 Oleg Kononenko, F-5 André Kuipers & FE-6 Don Pettit (who experienced 16 New Year’s Eve events – but officially celebrated only 3: on Houston, TX time, on GMT & on TsUP-Moscow time.).  Sunday – crew off duty.  Ahead: Week 7 of Increment 30 (six-person crew).  After wakeup, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.   FE-5 Kuipers started his workday with Day 4 of his first (FD15) suite of sessions with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period. [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet & urine pH logging and photography on the last day (science sessions are often referred to by Flight Day 15, 30, 60, etc. However, there are plus-minus windows associated with these time points so a “Flight Day 15” science session may not actually fall on the crewmember’s 15th day on-orbit). The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken. Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection. Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC. There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged). MELFI constraints: Maximum MELFI Dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI Dewar door openings.]  FE-6 Pettit had Day 2 of his first Pro K session, with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.  For his on-going first Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Alternate experiment, Don reached the midpoint at about 11:50am EST, after which he started the second 24h data collection period. After wakeup, Pettit had swapped Makita batteries for the Cardiopres and again ~5 hrs later. [For the second 24 hr period, the Cardiopres was temporarily doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours. After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink. The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).  Kuipers began his first 24-hr urine collections under the NUTRITION/Repository protocol with first void. Later in the day, André set up the equipment for the associated blood collection, scheduled tomorrow. [Urine samples go into MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 minutes after collection. Every individual urine/blood sample tube must be labeled with time of void and Crew ID (crew initials). Barcodes can be called down, placed in crew notes or via the BCR (barcode reader). For the subsequent blood sampling, there is an 8-hour fasting requirement prior to the blood draw. No food or drink, but water consumption is highly encouraged to ensure proper hydration. Exercise should not be conducted during the 8 hrs prior to the blood draw. There is a 20 min minimum to 30 min maximum blood coagulation period prior to RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) spin.]  Anatoly Ivanishin conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. This included the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow, as well as the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s & FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for calldown. [SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].  Don Pettit had another time slot reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on his personal SSC (Station Support Computer). [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]   CDR & FE-5 were scheduled for their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), André at ~6:50am, Dan at ~3:10pm EST.  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-4).   Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko & Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were – A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, aiming for the South shores of Lake Baikal, the glaciers of Patagonia, Laganakskoe plateau, Krasnaya Polyana, the Kolka glacier and delta, the Volga, the Caspian Sea, Hudson Volcano, Glacier Allalin, and Volcano Huascaran, A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Pacific, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and More preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.  