
Payloads:
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM):  A crewmember removed the SD Card from APM, transferred its data to an SSC laptop, and re-insert the SD Card back into APM.  Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. APM demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
Cytoskeleton:  The crew to installed Cytoskeleton Experiment Containers into the Biolab Incubator.  In vitro cultures of mammalian cells react specifically to microgravity, but there is no solid scientific evidence available about how and why.  The Involvement of Rho family GTPases in gravity perception and reaction (Cytoskeleton) investigation attempts to acquire new information about the events that are happening inside a mammalian cell, with the working hypothesis that the microgravity environment affects the function of RhoGTPases and the cellular signaling that they control.  RhoGTPases are signaling molecules residing under the Rho family of proteins, known to be involved as “molecular switches”, in the control of cell proliferation, apoptosis (programmed cell death), gene expression (flow of genetic information from gene to protein), and cytoskeletal organization.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF):  Four cables between the ELF, Work Volume Connector Panel, and the Small Experiment Area Connector Panel were replaced with a Bypass Cable in order to improve the operability of the sample cartridges.  ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt, and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
ESA-Education Payload Operations (ESA-EPO):  A video was recorded that will be used to promote the Überflieger 2 competition for university students. Überflieger 2 is organized by the German Space Agency at DLR (Deutsches Zentrum für Luft- und Raumfahrt) and the Luxembourg Space Agency (LSA). The winning students of Überflieger 2 will design and build their own ISS experiments. The experiments will be launched to ISS in early 2023.  The activities related to ESA-EPO Generic Videos are intended to encourage and strengthen the teaching of science curriculum and stimulate the curiosity of students to motivate them towards further study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects.
Retinal Diagnostics:  Retinal Diagnostics measurement were conducted on crewmembers for data collection.  The DLR-EAC Retinal Diagnostics Study (Retinal Diagnostics) utilizes a commercially available ophthalmology lens, approved for routine clinical use with mobile devices, to capture images of the human retina in space. The videos/images are downlinked to test and train models to detect retinal pathologies common among astronauts.
Systems:  
Ultrasound Exam: Today the crew used the ultrasound device to perform a Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) scan.  This is a routine medical requirement that utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for bilateral imaging of the internal jugular, entire subclavian-axillary axis, and lower extremity deep veins. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams
Eye Exams: The crew completed routine Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; In this case, the objects of interest are the crewmember’s eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board in order to monitor crewmembers eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Crew Dragon On-Board Training (OBT): The crew completed a Crew Dragon free flight, deorbit, entry and landing contingencies and emergencies refresher OBT. The crew routinely completes emergency OBTs in order to maintain their proficiency in the event of an ISS or crewed vehicle contingency. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

HRF Rack 2 activation and commanding
Payload Rack Officer Fluids Integrated Rack Activation Commanding
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) EDV Drain Support

