01-07-2010January 07, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/07/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Russian Orthodox Christmas (but a workday on ISS).   [Eastern Orthodox Church observes Nativity according to the old Julian Calendar.  After World War I, various Orthodox Churches, beginning with the Patriarchate of Constantinople, began to abandon the Julian calendar or Old Calendar, and adopt a form of the Gregorian calendar or New Calendar.  The Julian calendar is at the present time 13 days behind our Gregorian Calendar.] S Rodzhestvom Kristovym!  FE-4 Kotov started his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by FE-1 Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  TJ Creamer undertook the U.S. PFE (Periodic Fitness Evaluation) protocol, a monthly 1.5-hr. procedure which checks up on BP & ECG during programmed exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer in the US Lab.  Readings were taken with the BP/ECG (blood pressure/electrocardiograph) and the HRM (heart rate monitor) watch with its radio transmitter.   Jeff Williams acted as Operator/CMO.    [BP/ECG provides automated noninvasive systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements while also monitoring and displaying accurate heart rates on a continual basis at rest and during exercise.]  Maxim Suraev & Oleg Kotov continued preparations for the Orlan suited dry-run (1/12) and EVA-24 (1/14), including –  Configuring STTS communications for “Pirs” DC1 (Docking Compartment) occupancy,Setting up EVA (VKD) equipment in DC1 & SM PkhO (Service Module Transfer Compartment), Adjusting the Orlan-MK spacesuits #4 & #5 for size,Activating & inspecting the suits for hermeticity (leak tightness),Checking out the DC1 & PkhO BSS (Orlan Interface Units) for function and hermeticity,Checking out valves, jumpers, connections and testing them for hermeticity,Configuring the Orlan & BSS cooling loops and performing their degassing (i.e., liquid/gas separation) in DC1,Degassing the BSS systems in the PkhO,Refilling the feedwater bladders if necessary,Installing BRTA telemetry units & primary BK-3 oxygen tanks on the Orlan-MK backpacks,Conducting pressure checks on the BK-3 and on the BNP portable O2 repress bottle in PkhO,Checking out & readying replaceable components (OTA, Russian: SMEN) and auxiliary gear for their particular Orlan suits (storage batteries on BRTA, LP-9 LiOH canisters for dry run, moisture collectors, FOR feedwater filters), andRestoring DC1 STTS communications to their nominal settings.   In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Soichi Noguchi ran the first research session with the ESA PASSAGES experiment.     [After installing the experiment equipment (light shield, trackball) on the MPL (Multipurpose Laptop) in front of the EPM (European Physiology Module) and loading the PASSAGES software on the NeuroSpat hard disk, the FE-5 conducted the science data collection as the subject, then stowed the equipment.  For downlinking the data, Soichi inserted the PASSAGES PCMCIA memory card into the EPM laptop and afterwards reconnected its power cable to its original EDR (European Drawer Rack) laptop.]  Later, Noguchi cleaned up the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) after the recent RMS SFA (Robotic Manipulator System Small Fine Arm) assembly and checkout, consolidated payload items and tools in CTB (Cargo Transfer Bag), and restowed the equipment.  At the Saibo Rack in Kibo, FE-6 Creamer closed out fire port repairs at the CB (Clean Bench), CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) and AAA (Avionics Air Assembly) by reattaching the temporarily lost fire port cap.  After the FE-6 set up the cable connection between PCS (Portable Computer System) and SSC-8 (Station Support Computer 8), then checked out the POC DOUG (Portable Onboard Computers/Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) for its ability to receive telemetry, TC & Soichi conducted the standard review of POC DOUG material for an SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) maneuvering checkout scheduled tomorrow for their Robotics training.  Williams performed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Collapsible Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week.    [The current card (22-0003E) lists 86 CWCs (~2,043.5 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (19 CWCs with 658.7 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 136.0 L in 7 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 388.5 L in 9 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 66.6 L in 2 bags require sample analysis & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (53 CWCs with 992.0 L),  4. condensate water (1 CWC with 5.9 L, 2 empty CWCs), and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (1 CWC with 20.2 L, 1 empty CWC).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  The CDR supported the ground in swapping the Lab THC CCAA (Temperature & Humidity Control / Common Cabin Air Assembly) air conditioner from Port to Starboard by closing off the LAB1P6 MFCV (Manual Flow Control Valve) and opening the LAB1S6 MFCV.  This allowed the swapover from the CCAA port channel (P6) to the alternate system on the starboard (S6) of the Lab.  The ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) LTL was then switched accordingly, i.e., from port to starboard.    [The CCAA is a network of ducting that draws in the air through filters, delivers it for conditioning, and returns it to the modules.  The swap-over between the CCAA channels is generally done by the ground once a month, with crew support, to dry out the heat exchanger of the deactivated side.  MCC-H flight controllers command the required systems configurations for the dryout via S-band.]  Williams collected water samples from the LAB condensate tank, taking two samples for return in CWC water bags.  Afterwards, Jeff performed chemical testing on the samples using EHS C-SPE (Environmental Health System / Colorimetric Solid-Phase Extraction) analysis and CWQMK (Colorimetric Water Quality Monitoring Kit).     [Results of an Iodine standard were downloaded, followed by the Silver standard and analysis.]  FE-4 Kotov used pressurized oxygen from Progress 35P stores to refresh the ISS cabin.   Oleg also reviewed RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) operations procedures, then went through his first standard 30-min Shuttle RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) onboard familiarization training, using a D2X digital still camera with 400mm lens and taking practice shots of ground features with images having 40-50% overlap and about 20 images in each sequence.  Afterwards, the FE-4 downlinked the obtained photographs for ground analysis.     [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the next Shuttle (STS-130/Endeavour/20A).  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Endeavour, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]  CDR Williams installed a new Compact Flash card into the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4), located on ER1 (EXPRESS Rack 1).  TJ Creamer set up the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) with its software and performed BMM (Body Mass Measurement) activities for himself and Jeff Williams, without doing the control/calibration run.  The hardware was then powered off, disassembled and temporarily stowed.    [SLAMMD, performed first on Expedition 12 in December 2005, provides an accurate means of determining the on-orbit mass of humans spanning the range from the 5th percentile Japanese female to the 95th percentile American male.  The procedure, in accordance with Newton’s 2nd Law of Motion, finds the mass by dividing force, generated by two springs inside the SLAMMD drawer, by acceleration measured with a precise optical instrument that detects the position versus time trajectory of the SLAMMD guide arm and a micro controller which collects the raw data and provides the precise timing.  The final computation is done via portable laptop computer with SLAMMD unique software.  To calculate their mass, crewmembers wrap their legs around a leg support assembly, align the stomach against a belly pad and either rest the head or chin on a head rest.  For calibration, an 18-lbs. mass is used at different lengths from the pivot point, to simulate different mass values.  Crew mass range is from 90 to 240 lbs.]  In the Soyuz TMA-16/20S spacecraft, docked at the SM Aft port, Suraev activated the spacecraft’s gas analyzer (GA), a periodic procedure to monitor the atmosphere of the CRV (Crew Return Vehicle).  In the US A/L (Airlock), the FE-6 terminated the regeneration of EMU METOX (Metal Oxide) canisters #0019 & #0020 started by him yesterday, completing the regeneration job.     [METOX canisters, used to absorb CO2 during U.S. spacewalks, are regenerated by heating them in a bake-out oven in the A/L.]  Creamer conducted his first session with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and performing the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.     [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]  In the SM, Oleg did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  TJ filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), his third time.     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  The CDR went over the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) and its VIS (Vibration Isolation System) for the periodic maintenance & visual inspection of its rails & rollers, greasing the Y- and Z-axis rails & rollers and also evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration.  Jeff also donned the Glenn treadmill harness with installed transducer instrumentation (third time for him), then activated the harness for his exercise run on the T2/COLBERT treadmill.     [Afterwards, the CDR downloaded the harness data and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).]  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  Later, Jeff transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  At ~7:40am EST, Soichi Noguchi received a special PAO/TV VIP call in the Kibo module from Japanese Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama in Tokyo, accompanied by the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science & Technology (MEXT) Tatsuo Kawabata, and eight students from Chigasaki Hamasuka Elementary School.  The exchange was moderated on the ground by JAXA Astronaut Satoshi Furukawa.   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Kerguelen Island, South Indian Ocean (clear weather conditions were predicted to persist over Kerguelen Island.  ISS had a nadir-viewing traverse across the length of the island – overlapping mapping frames as the station crossed from NW to SE were requested), Brasilia, Brazil (some scattered clouds may be present over the capital city of Brazil.  Brasilia is considered a prime example of 20th century urban planning - it was developed in 1956 and became the capital in 1960.  Overlapping nadir-viewing mapping frames, taken along track, were requested as ISS passed over the urban area), and Paramaribo, Suriname (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over Paramaribo, the capital and largest city of Suriname.  The city is located on the banks of the Suriname River approximately 15 km inland from the Atlantic Ocean.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested).  