01-05-2010January 05, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/05/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  At wake-up, FE-6 Creamer performed the fourth urine pH spot test of the Pro K protocol and later in the day logged his diet intact of today.    [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]  Creamer also had Day 3 with the Generic HRF (Human Research Facility) Blood & Urine Activities for the first onboard session with the new routine, modified from the past NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, continuing the 24-hr urine collections started yesterday.  Samples were stowed in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS), and TJ also did blood sample collection later in the day, with Jeff Williams acting as operator.     [The operational products for Blood & Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]  CDR Williams & FE-5 Noguchi completed another RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, then terminated the program (which ran on Laptop #1108 in the Lab).  FE-4 Kotov started his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by FE-1 Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-1 Suraev serviced the running BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment in the SM and took documentary photography.  For downloading accumulated data from the BU Control Unit, the hardware was temporarily turned back on.     [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-16 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP), currently planted with Mizuna seeds.  Mizuna (Brassica rapa nipposinica) is a tasty variety of Japanese mustard greens, also known as California Peppergrass, eaten as a salad.]   Suraev & Kotov then spent the greater part of their day with more preparations for the Russian EVA-24 on 1/14 and the dryrun for it on 1/12.  Working in the DC1 Docking Compartment and SM PkhO (Service Module Transfer Compartment), Maxim & Oleg configured the compartments for the spacewalk.    [This included temporarily configuring the STTS communications systems in the DC1 for their presence, moving the “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2) radiation suite with its spherical Phantom unit & LULIN-5 electronics box out of the DC1, installing the usual additional BNP portable air repress bottle in the DC1 (to support a DC1 repress in the event of a failure of the DC1/PkhO hatch’s pressure equalization valve) and the second BNP in the SM RO (Work Compartment), etc.  Preparations also included the LP-9 LiOH canisters for the dry-run, BK-3M oxygen tanks (primary & reserve), CO2 measurement unit filter, moisture collector, FOR feedwater filter, BOS degassing pump unit, storage batteries 825 M3 for dry-run and EVA, DIDBs (disposable in-suit drink bags), LCG (Liquid Cooled Garment), ShL-10 comm cap, GP-10KM gloves, BK-10 thermal comfort undergarment, socks, diapers, etc.)]   Later, Maxim & Oleg broke out and readied Orlan spacesuit replaceable elements & equipment (SMEG).    .    [Planned EVA-24 tasks, estimated to take about 4 hrs, will focus on  MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2) “Poisk” outfitting:  Installation of KURS AFU antenna feeder unit, AR & 2AR KURS antennas and the MRM2 docking target plus docking monitor target, Connecting MRM2 KURS AFU to the SM KURS AFU onboard cabling (BKS) which replaces the SM zenith docking assembly KURS AFU, Installing an intermodular SM-MRM2 Ethernet cable, additional handrails on MRMs EVA hatches VL1 & VL2, Installation of MLI (Multi-Layer Insulation) blankets on MRM2, and   Removal of the third BIORISK container along with its installation platform.]  After CDR Williams set up the G1 camcorder with MPC (Multiple-Protocol Converter) in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) to allow ground monitoring of their activities, he & FE-5 Noguchi had ~3.5 hrs blocked out for the final assembly & checkout of the JEMRMS SFA (Robotic Manipulator System / Small Fine Arm).    [Assembly steps included, among else, putting together the SFA electronics and mechanism, installing the SFA tool on the SFA mechanism and configuring the assembly for installation clearance in the JEM AL (Airlock), connecting a checkout cable for testing the SFA assembly and then conducting the checkout with activated RLT (Robotics Laptop), MON1 (Monitor 1) & MON2, reconfiguring connections between ACU (Arm Computer Unit) and the SFA electronics for more testing, finally deactivating the systems.]  FE-6 Creamer unstowed and pre-positioned equipment and tools for tomorrow’s scheduled CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) configuring activities, involving MDCA (Multi-user Drop Combustion Apparatus) and CIA (Chamber Insert Assembly) setups.  Using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), Jeff performed the periodic WRS (Water Recovery System) sample analysis, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.    [After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]  Afterwards, the CDR inspected the two MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) racks to verify the contents inside each box module of Dewar 1 of MELFI1 & 2.  In the US A/L (Airlock), FE-6 Creamer changed out EMU UIA (Extravehicular Mobility Unit / Umbilical Interface Assembly) biocide filters.  TJ also terminated EMU METOX (Metal Oxide) canister regeneration started yesterday by Jeff, and then initiated the process on a new set (#0015/#0016).     [METOX canisters, used to absorb CO2 during U.S. spacewalks, are regenerated by heating them in a bake-out oven in the A/L.]  In the SM (Service Module), FE-1 Suraev did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Maxim also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Kotov, Creamer & Noguchi each had an hour to themselves again for general orientation (station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.  CDR, FE-4 & FE-6 underwent their regular PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Oleg at ~7:40am, Jeff at ~9:45am, TJ at ~11:25am EST.  At ~12:40pm, Williams & Creamer held the periodic science conference with payload specialists at POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center, Huntsville, AL), involving IPM (Increment Payload Manager), LIS (Lead Increment Scientist), and POM (Payload Operations Manager) to discuss payload topics.  At ~9:15am EST, Williams, Creamer & Noguchi joined up on a PAO TV exchange with KTRH Radio, Houston, TX, and Fox News Channel.  For today’s T2/COLBERT treadmill exercise runs by Williams, Noguchi & Creamer, TJ set up the G1 camcorder equipment in Node-1.  Afterwards, the equipment was cleared away again.    [The video is required for biomechanical evaluation of the exercising crewmembers, and evaluation of the hardware status by ground engineers.]  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  Later, Jeff transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Yaounde, Cameroon (weather was predicted to be mostly clear at the time of this nadir-viewing overpass.  Yaounde is the capital city of Cameroon and is located at the approximate center of the country.  The roughly rectangular urban area is surrounded by vegetated low hills.  Overlapping mapping frames, taken along track, were requested to obtain a rural-urban-rural transect across the city), and N. Glaciers of S. Patagonian Gl. Field (ISS had an orbit pass over the northern glaciers of the Southern Patagonian Ice Field.  Image frames of the glaciers and fjords were requested to track changes in ice extent.)  