
SpaceX-16 Dragon Status:  The crew had completed cargo loading into the Dragon vehicle this morning in preparation for its departure tomorrow.  However, due to weather conditions at the planned splashdown zone in the Pacific Ocean, Dragon departure from ISS has been delayed. Teams are assessing the next opportunity to release Dragon on Sunday, January 13.    
STaARS BioScience-4 (Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems):  As a result of Dragon’s departure delay, the crew removed the stowed STaARS Bioscience-4 containers from Dragon and re-installed them back into the STaARS facility. The STaARS BioScience-4 investigation examines how oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) react to microgravity, specifically the rate at which the cells proliferate and differentiate in the microgravity environment. 
Completed Task List Activities:

SpaceX 16 Common Berthing Mechanism Ground Control On Board Training
Node 3 Endcone Organize
CHeCS Rack Cleanup Follow up
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems BioScience Experiment Container Installation
Cargo Transfer from Dragon

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


System commanding in support of Dragon departure
Dragon Locker Removal
Cargo Transfer from Dragon
Dragon Locker Installation

Two Day Look Ahead:
Thursday, 1/10
Payloads

Actiwatch Spectrum Plus downlink and stow
Vascular Echo (CSA)
Meteor HD swap

Systems

None

Friday, 1/11: Crew Off Duty
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Cold Stowage Double Cold bag Pack
Record video of 1 orbit of Earth for CSA outreach
Record video for CSA about physical activity in space
Double Cold bag Transfer to Dragon
Crew Command Panel (CCP) Cable Route and Checkout
Dragon Egress in Preparation for Departure [Deferred]
Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Rotation, Installation, and Closeout [Deferred]
Dragon Vestibule Configuration for Demate [Deferred]
N2 Deck hatch MPEV open [Deferred]
N2 HD Camera On for Dragon Center Stack and Egress Operations
Pressure Management Device (PMD) Part 2 [Deferred]
R PAO event report preparation
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
Transfer Center Stack to Dragon
Conrtol of the closed state of a window №6,8,9,12,13,14 cover [Aborted]
GREAT START. Setup and beginning of video recording of СКП-УП P/L installation in MRM1
UROLUX PREPARATION
СОЖ maintenance
СТТС configuration for MRM1
СТТС reconfiguration in MRM1
VIZIR. Experiment Ops using СКП-УП P/L.
VIZIR. Installation of СКП-УП P/L in MRM1.
Cleaning of gas-liquid heat exchangers 1,2,3 (ГЖТ) screens in FGB
Cleaning panel vent screens

 