
Rodent Research-19 (RR-19): The crew completed the last set of Bone Densitometer scans using the Experiment box in the Life Science Glovebox. The crew also performed the Rodent Transporter Setup. Mighty Mice in Space: Preclinical Evaluation of a Broad Spectrum Myostatin Inhibitor to Prevent Muscle and Bone Loss Due to Disuse uses rodent models on the ISS to investigate the potential benefits of targeting the myostatin (MSTN) and activin signaling pathways to prevent skeletal muscle and bone loss during spaceflight and on the recovery of muscle and bone following return to Earth. This research could provide valuable preclinical data to support clinical trials for MSTN therapies for a wide range of conditions that affect muscle and bone health. Such research is particularly important for conditions that involve disuse muscle atrophy (muscle wasting due to immobility or lessened activity)—for example, patients recovering from hip fracture surgery, intensive care patients, and the elderly.
Bone Densitometer (BD): The crew changed out the Imaging unit in the Bone Densitometer and took historical photos. Approximately the size of a consumer microwave oven, the Bone Densitometer (BD) uses X-rays to measure the bone mineral density (and the lean and fat tissue) of mice living aboard the ISS. As a result, researchers hope to develop medical technology that will combat bone density loss in space and on Earth, helping millions of senior citizens who suffer from osteoporosis.
ICE Cubes Facility: The crew removed Cube #6 (KIRARA) in preparation for return on SpX-19. In the Ice Cubes Experiment Cube #6 – Kirara mission, a 1-Unit (1U)-sized incubator, equipped with a temperature controller, is used to allow protein crystallization to happen in microgravity under a well-maintained temperature inside the cube. This first mission is aimed as an in-orbit validation test for a protein crystallization service as part of future commercial space activities. This first demonstration mission includes proteins for seven different companies and research institute
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L): The crew removed the Humidifier fan unit from the CBEF 1G incubator. Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Space Moss: The crew performed Space Moss sample fixation using the CBEF-micro-G and 1G facilities. Environmental Response and Utilization of Mosses in Space – Space Moss (Space Moss) grows mosses aboard the space station, and on Earth, to determine how microgravity affects their growth, development, gene expression, photosynthetic activity, and other features. Tiny plants without roots, mosses need only a small area for growth, an advantage for their potential use in space and future bases on the Moon or Mars.
Systems:
SpX-19 Cargo Operations: In preparation for the SpX-19 unberth and return to the ground, the ISS crew took the opportunity to work on Cargo transfer operations. The ISS crew, working off a Cargo Transfer list, packed and transferred a variety cargo items on the Dragon vehicle. SpX-19 is scheduled to depart ISS on Sunday, January 5th.
Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Ultra High Frequency (UHF) Communication Unit (CUCU) Crew Command Panel (CCP) Checkout: In preparation for SpX-19 Dragon vehicle departure, the crew successfully checked out the CUCU and CCP. The CUCU system provides a command and telemetry communications link between the ISS and Dragon vehicle during free flight operations while in close proximity of the ISS.
Columbus Space Station Computer (SSC): Earlier this week, the Columbus SSC went offline and would not reboot. Troubleshooting was not successful at returning the SSC to service. Today, the crew performed a shell swap. The SSC was returned to a nominal configuration following the activity.
Space Debris Sensor (SDS) Transfer to Cygnus: Ground controllers performed a robotic survey of the SDS payload prior to the Columbus Exposed Facility site and transferred the payload to Cygnus.  Northrop Grumman 12 (NG-12) is the first mission with passive Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) sites located on the Cygnus vehicle.  These sites are planned to allow for the disposal of ISS FRAM payloads and Flight Support Equipment (FSE).
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


SDS Survey and Transfer 

Saturday, 1/4 (GMT 004)
Payloads:


Food Acceptability (NASA)

Systems:

Crew Off Duty 

Sunday, 1/5 (GMT 005)
Payloads:


Advanced Nano Step Cartridge and Cell-2 removal for return (JAXA)
Powered Ascent Utility Locker (PAUL) CubeLabs (NSCF_IPS02) removed to CS return (NASA)
Rodent Transfer and Access Unit Clean (NASA) 

Systems:

Dragon Center Stack Transfer 

Monday, 1/6 (GMT 006)
Payloads:


SpaceBiofilms GAPs removal for return (NASA)
RADIN Retrieval (CSA)
Food Acceptability (NASA)
Advanced NanoSteps Stow (JAXA)
CBEF-L LTL Box Set valve setting (JAXA)
BioFabricator Fill bags prep for return (NASA)

Systems:

Dragon Center Stack Transfer
Vestibule Configuration for Depress

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Columbus Payload Power Switching Box (PPSB)
Confined Combustion Payload Overview
Life on the Station Photo/Video
High Definition Video Camera Assembly 2 Switch to SD Mode
Cold Stowage Dragon Double Coldbag Pack Overview Review
Rodent Research Bone Densitometer Scan
Polar and MERLIN Transfer to Dragon Overview
WSS Slot 1 Hose Installations
NutrISS – ESA Nutritional Assessment
WSS N2 Cap O-ring removal
Installation of ИП-1 Directional Air Flow sensors on DC1-СУ hatch (toward Progress 443)
TIMER. Performing specialized movements and changing the angle of camcorders
RR Polar Sample Removal
Vozdukh Atmosphere Purification System [СОА] Switchover to Mode 1 (Valve Group БВК1, БВК2).
Recharging Soyuz 744 SM-AGAT-U55 external batteries (2), initiate recharge
Removal of Cubes #6
Replacement of Purification Column Unit (БКО), gas-liquid mixture filter (ФГС), filter-reactor (ФР) in Condensate Water Recovery system [СРВ-К2М]. Activation of [СРВ-К2М] after replacement
Progress 443 (DC1) Transfers and IMS Ops
Cargo Transfer to Dragon
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Space Moss Sample Fixation of Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Micro-G
Rodent Research Transporter Setup
Station Support Computer (SSC) 11 Shell Swap
WSS Compressor Switch cap
Cleaning ventilation screens on FGB interior panels 116, 316, 231, 431
Space Moss Sample Fixation of Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) 1G
Photo/TV CUCU HD Video Setup
COTS UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Crew Command Panel (CCP) Checkout
Bone Densitometer Maintenance Work Area Preparation
Checking SW version of CoaguChek-M device
Space Moss sample Insertion into MELFI -95 degrees C.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Humidifier Closeout for CBEF Incubator Unit 1G
Recharging SM-AGAT-U55 external batteries (2) in Soyuz 744, stop recharge
Polar Sample Transfer 1 From Cold Stowage
Cupola Window Shutter Close

 