01-04-2012January 04, 2012ISS On-Orbit Status 01/04/12  >>>Today 54 years ago (1958), Sputnik 1, the Earth’s first artificial satellite, launched on October 4, 1957, fell back to Earth; today 53 years ago (1959), the Soviet probe Luna 1 became the first spacecraft to reach the vicinity of the Moon, and today 8 years ago (2004), NASA’s Rover Spirit landed on the Planet Mars.<<<  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  After wakeup, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  FE-5 Kuipers & FE-6 Pettit completed their 3rd post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol. [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Pettit had Day 5 (final) of his first Pro K session, with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.  Later, Don took photographs of the diet logfile for downlink.  At or after ~1:15am EST, FE-6 concluded his first NUTRITION w/Repository 24-hr urine collection period, with samples deposited in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) in Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module). Additionally, Pettit underwent the associated generic blood draw, with Dan Burbank assisting with the phlebotomy as CMO (Crew Medical Officer). Don then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the JPM MELFI (JEM Pressurized Module Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).           [The operational products for blood & urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities. Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated. Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement. Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]  FE-4 Kononenko tended the current experiment with the Russian/German KPT-21 Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall/PK-3+) payload, running in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, by checking the hermeticity of the evacuated EB vacuum chamber after wakeup and before bedtime (any pressure increase above the vacuum should stay within 5 mmHg). After configuring the STTS comm system for working in MRM2, Oleg set up and initiated the KPT-21 experiment in semi-automatic mode. Later, the system was disconnected, results downloaded & downlinked and PK-3 deactivated. [Main objective of PK-3 is to accumulate additional statistics on crystallization dynamics at constant argon pressures (10 Pa) exposed to thermophoretic force, currently on 1.55 micron particles.  Background: Thermophoresis, thermodiffusion, or Soret effect (or Ludwig-Soret effect), is a phenomenon observed when a mixture of two or more types of motile particles (particles able to move) are subjected to the force of a temperature gradient and the different types of particles respond to it differently (the term "Soret effect" normally means thermophoresis in liquids only).  The term "thermophoresis" is most often intended to mean the behavior in aerosols, not liquids, but the broader meaning is also common.]  With its TTM-2 battery recharged in the morning, Shkaplerov & Ivanishin spent ~2.5 hrs with the BAR science instruments suite of the KPT-2 payload, checking temperature and humidity parameters of the crew work environment at various sites with the TTM-2 and IVA-6A instruments.  [Data were copied to the RSE1 laptop for downlink to Earth via OCA, with photographs, and the activities were supported by ground specialist tagup as required. Objective of the Russian KPT-2/BARscience payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night). Piren-V is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods & means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization. Besides KPT-2 Piren-V, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times. Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]  In the US Lab, CDR Burbank worked on the CUCU (COTS UHF Communications Unit) equipment at loc. O4, updating the Dragon CCP (Crew Command Panel) software on the T61p laptop to vers. 3.2 and then testing the setup, supported by live video downlink.  In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Burbank later reconnected the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop to the network via Ethernet cable, then updated the software for the PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer), to be used for the SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) experiment protocol.      [SOLO, a NASA/ESA-German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight. The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions. Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 & MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved. However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased. Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]  While working on the EPM, the CDR removed the MARES (Muscle Atrophy Resistive Exercise System) hard disk from the EPM laptop and stowed it.  FE-1 Shkaplerov & FE-2 Ivanishin started a new round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, today first working in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok) cleaning the grilles of interior panels 201, 301 & 401, the TsV1 fan guard screen and the GZhT1,2,3 gas/liquids heat exchanger grills, and then replacing its PF1 & PF2 dust filter cartridges with new spares.  Anatoly completed the periodic transfer of U.S. condensate water from CWCs (Contingency Water Container, #1051, #1083) to the RS for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, filling the designated KOV EDV container. Once filled, the EDV was to be connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.   [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.]  Don powered off and relocated the EHS / TEPC (Environmental Health Systems / Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter) detector assembly from the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), loc. F2/3, to the SM Panel 327.     [The TEPC detector assembly is the primary radiation measurement tool in the ISS.]  Preparatory to his first vascular echography session in the COL, FE-6 Pettit had ~30 min for reviewing VIS (Vessel Imaging) procedures. [Vascular Echography (Vessel Imaging) evaluates the changes in central and peripheral blood vessel wall properties (thickness and compliance) and cross sectional areas of long-duration ISS crewmembers during and after long-term exposure to microgravity. An LBNP (Lower Body Negative Pressure) program will be run in parallel to Vessel Imaging. Flow velocity changes in the aorta and the middle cerebral and femoral arteries will be used to quantify the cardiovascular response to fluid shift. Vessel Imaging aims to optimize the countermeasures used routinely during long-duration space missions.]  André Kuipers used the CSA-O2 (Compound Specific Analyzer-O2) units (#1043, #1048) to take oxygen partial pressure readings in the SM and COL.  On TsUP Go, Kononenko was to refresh ISS cabin atmosphere with another O2 represses from Progress 45P SRPK tankage.  CDR Burbank & FE-5 Kuipers each conducted another session with the U.S. HMS VIS (Health Maintenance Systems / Visual Acuity) testing program which uses an eye chart for both far & near visual acuity and an eye questionnaire (DCT/Data Collection Tool), to be filled out with test data and downloaded on a laptop for ground access.  Andre & Don gathered US trash & excessed equipment and transferred it to Progress 45P, docked at DC1, for disposal.  Anton & Oleg continued loading & stowing throw-away cargo on the 45P resupply ship, slated for atmospheric reentry and destruction on 1/24.  Kononenko also performed the periodic tightening of the BZV quick release screw clamps of the SSVP docking mechanism on the DC1 “Pirs”/Progress 45P StA docking interface.  Afterwards, FE-4 took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Anatoly conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.]  Oleg & Andre again had about an hour of free time for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.  The CDR took Pettit & Kuipers through another ~1.5 hrs of Increment 30-to-31 crew handover activity.  CDR & FE-6 had their regular PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Dan at ~10:50am, Don at ~12:20pm EST.  At ~9:35am, Dan Burbank & Andre Kuipers supported a PAO TV downlink, responding to two interviews, with Space.com (Clara Moskowitz) and Fox News Radio (Eben Brown).  Before Presleep, the CDR will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).  After his T2 session, Burbank closed down the T2 software on its laptop for data transfer, then turned off the T2 display.  The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for FE-1 & FE-2 for today suggested more preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Porto-Novo, Benin (Capital City:  The capital city of the West African nation of Benin has a population of about a quarter of a million and is located near the coast in the south of the country.  As ISS approached the coast of the Gulf of Benin from the SW, the crew may have first spotted the mega-city of Lagos.  Porto-Novo lies about 50 miles to the west of Lagos and just east of Lake Nokoue), Nassau, Bahamas (Capital City:  ISS had a nadir-viewing overpass of Nassau, capital city of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas.  Some scattered clouds may have been present.  The city of Nassau proper is located on the eastern half of New Providence Island; however the metropolitan area encompasses the entire island.  Overlapping mapping frames of the island, concentrating on the eastern half were requested), and Wells Creek Impact Crater, TN (ISS had a nadir pass over this challenging impact crater in Tennessee.  The crater is 12 km in diameter and is estimated to be about 200 million years old.  The Exp. 28 crew was able to capture this crater in a context view earlier in their increment.  CEO observers requested overlapping context views with a longer lens).  Conjunction Update: Flight controllers have been tracking a possible conjunction with Object 09617 (DELTA 1 debris), TCA (Time of Closest Approach): tonight at 6:53pm EST.  The conjunction has remained stable for the past two days.  Based on the computed low risk and the stability in the data, specialists see no reason to pursue DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) planning for this conjunction. Monitoring will continue through TCA.   