01-09-2010January 09, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/09/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew half-duty day.  Note:  After Wakeup (6:00am EST), the crew always has 1.5 hrs of Postsleep time for Station Morning Inspection, Morning Toilet, and Breakfast.  FE-1 Suraev began the day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by Maxim on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Right after Postsleep, CDR Williams, FE-5 Noguchi & FE-6 Creamer completed a Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  A total of 121 RST runs are assigned to Jeff for the duration of his orbital stay.]  The five station residents performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  As part of the house cleaning, Suraev & Kotov conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and also Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).  Additionally, Maxim checked the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter units of the SM’s and FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.  Later, Oleg completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].  The crew performed three VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) programs, starting with the FE-6 who worked with the FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack).    [After configuring the US Lab camcorder to cover activities, Creamer opened the lower and upper FCF (Fluids Combustion Facility) doors, translated the FIR Optics Bench out of the rack and connected all the CVB (Constrained Vapor Bubble) and LMM (Light Microscopy Module) cables except those cables associated with the final power connection to the FIR, then installed the FIR White Light F/O Cables for LMM and rotated the LMM Spindle Bracket Assembly to operate position.  FIR Optics Bench and FCF doors were finally restored to their original position.]  For his own VolSci program, CDR William set up the camcorder for recording video and then conducted the EPO (Educational Program Operations) demo on “Speed/Work/Energy”, discussing speed of the ISS and Earth, work, and energy.  The hardware was then restowed.     [The demos were timed such that EPO ground personnel could provide real-time feedback during the demo.]  For a third VolSci activity, FE-5 Noguchi set up the G1 camcorder for a 3-min science Podcast segment describing the Japanese Marangoni Convection experiments.    [“On Earth, when silicon crystallizes, it is affected by buoyancy convection--the rising and falling of molecules due to their weight.  This movement of molecules causes flaws in the crystals’ structure.  Scientists assumed that in near-weightlessness, where buoyancy convection is greatly reduced, they would see defect-free crystals.  But this is not the case. In space, another kind of convection takes over: Marangoni Flow.  Occurring when there are temperature differences throughout a fluid, Marangoni Flow can look like an invisible spoon stirring a liquid.  This is because energized molecules are ceaselessly being pulled towards the area of high surface tension.  In this Japanese-led experiment that features significant Canadian contribution, we use silicone oil for the liquid bridge and induce Marangoni flow with two disks--one cool, the other hot--on either side of the liquid.  We vary the temperature between 5 and 90 degrees and collect our data through the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility’s 3D, 2D, and thermal imaging cameras.”   Podcast: A series of digital media files (either audio or video) that are released episodically and downloaded through web syndication or on demand.]  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  Later, Williams transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  At ~9:05am, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  At ~10:20am, the two Russian Flight Engineers downlinked PAO TV greetings to TsUP-Moscow for Igor Narimanovich Valiakhmetov, General Director of Izhevsk Radio Manufacturing Plant, to his 60th birthday.    [“During our entire flight we are surrounded with the hardware manufactured by Izhevsk Radio Manufacturing Plant.   Among those are telemetry hardware for rocket carrier, automatic docking system, which brought the vehicle to the station. Hardware from Izhevsk Radio Manufacturing Plant in our space home performs monitoring of all parameters.  Dear Igor Narimanovich, our heartfelt wishes to you on this remarkable occasion!  We are wishing you yet more successful and reliable products for space research.  Stay happy and healthy!”]  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Two -- Week 6)  3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    No report.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:   No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    “TJ, you have successfully completed your first BISE run, in spite of the disappearing BISE O-CHART icon on the desktop (which was recreated).  Soichi was a great help in setting up the video and taking pictures. Thanks to both of you!”  BISPHOSPHONATES:   “Jeff, thanks for completing your pill ingestion. Your next session is scheduled for 1/10.  Soichi, thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Your next session is scheduled for 1/10.  Your first 24-hr Urine Collection session is currently being scheduled for 1/14-1/15.”  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    Samples will return on the next shuttle.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    “TJ, the CIR team would like to thank you for your diligence in completing the CIR maintenance activities this week.  Your diligence has allowed our team to resume combustion science with the CIR rack.  Several fuel runs have been completed since CIR has been online.”  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.  DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    The High Temperature Insert (HTI) is currently installed into DECLIC and is being prepared for a 27-day run.  Some of the preparations that will be executed on the ground include the installation of a new script file, data downloading, performance tests, and initiating the HTI heating.    DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    Acquiring data.  Last ground-commanded downlink successfully performed on 1/7.  Assessment from all previous downlinks shows full nominal performance of the DOSTEL active detectors.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    The rack is continuously active in support of the Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility (PCDF) experiment. EDR is providing power/data and temperature control (via cooling loop) to PCDF.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):     Several maintenance activities were successfully carried out on 12/29.  The activities completed include the replacement of the EMCS door screw, EMCS Water Reservoirs, Rotor-Based Life Support System (RBLSS) Modules and RBLSS Filters elements.  Therefore, the only remaining tasks to be performed are the installation of a water pump tube and the installation of a software upgrade prior to the arrival of TROPI-2!  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Rack activated on 1/7 to support PASSAGES and monthly DOSIS data downlink.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):    No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   “The video shooting and downlink was completed on 12/24.  Soichi, thank you for playing some instruments and we really enjoyed watching you playing catch with a Japanese round rice-cake (to celebrate New Year's Day).”  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):   Dewey’s Forest has been started. The plantlet will be cultivated for 3 months. The plantlet has been watered this past week.    EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):  “No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Poem (JAXA):   “Soichi, thank you for delivering a wonderful poem!”  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   Tapes were returned on ULF3.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory):   No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):   No report.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    No report.  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    Postponed. Troubleshooting planning is now in progress.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Continuing observation operation.  Marangoni UVP:   Leak repair preparations are in progress with activities being planned and scheduled.   MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    A check for the rest of the Elmer's Glue was completed.  The glue will be used for Marangoni troubleshooting (of the silicone oil leakage on the cooling disk) to be performed soon.   MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE (Materials ISS Experiment):  Ongoing.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.  MSL (Materials Science Laboratory):    Processed SCAs from CETSOL and MICAST were returned on ULF3.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    “T.J., thanks for participating in your first Nutrition/Repository/Pro K session. All of the detailed information that you recorded in crew notes has been received and was very helpful. Your next session is FD30 and includes a monitored diet.”  PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    “Thanks, Soichi, for performing the first (ever) PASSAGES session.  Despite the look-for-HDD (Hard Disk Drive) period, you successfully managed all the activities on 1/7.  Thanks for outstanding support!”  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.  RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “Jeff, thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test!  We received your question from the Payloads Crew Conference on 1/5 and are working on an answer for you. The PI is also working on feedback from your data so far.   Soichi and TJ, thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test!”  SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    “SAIBO fire port seal was completed, Thank you.”   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuing observation operations.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Jeff and TJ, thanks for completing another week of sleep logging.  The data will be downlinked on 1/31 to be sent to the PI.”  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):    No report.  SMILES (JAXA):    Continuing observations.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in. Liquids, ESA):    The Cell Array #2 has a binary mixture of 50% water - 50% Isopropanol leading to positive Soret coefficient (when the lighter component is driven towards the higher temperature region of the experimental cell).  Runs have been carried out on that Cell Array with varying frequency/amplitude vibration stimuli and varying imposed temperature gradients up to 12/22.  Preliminary assessment of science images is on-going.  Upon completion of the preliminary analysis of the results of Cell Array#2 runs, the science team requests some specific runs in order to be able to properly interpret the fluid behavior of the Cell Array#2 and look more in detail to the role of the applied temperature gradient in the cell.  IVIDIL remaining runs are planned to resume on 1/11.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    Current Sun observation window #24 started on 1/6.  So far, one spontaneous reboot has been experienced on 1/6, due to a loss of data communication with SOLSPEC instrument.  The platform was again quickly recovered.  Expected end of current Sun observation window is planned on 1/17.  SOLSPEC and SOLACES are both currently acquiring science data.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.  SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):     “Thanks Jeff for successfully completing your 3rd session of VO2Max, and therefore simultaneously with your THERMOLAB data collection.“  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VO2max (NASA):   “Jeff, thanks for completing your third VO2max session!   We received the data on the ground and everything looks good.  We are working to schedule your next session prior to the upcoming dockings.“  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    VLE-1 completed.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):    Through 1/5, the ground has received a total of 13,392 frames of ISS-22 CEO imagery for review and cataloguing.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of imagery for the following CEO Target Requests:  Panama City, Panama – good coverage – will try again for less clouds; Riyadh, Saudi Arabia – incomplete coverage with cloud cover – will request again for cloud-free context views; Sanaa, Yemen – nice cloud-free coverage – requirements complete for this target; Mauna Loa Volcano, Hawaii – nice view of summit with dusting of snow – coverage incomplete; and Kilauea Volcano, Hawaii – several publication-worthy views of venting activity – coverage incomplete.  The past two weekends, two of your fine images have been published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website.  First, a detailed view of a complex dune field in the Tenéré Desert of Niger which beautifully illustrates both linear and transverse dunes, including the special form of transverse dune known as zibar. Second, is a striking view of elaborate evaporation ponds in the remote Salar de Atacama, Chile which are used for the commercial extraction of lithium and other salts from the subsurface brines of this dry lake bed.  Thanks for these great informational views of Earth processes and human activities.”  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Indian Ocean (HMS Beagle Site.  Weather was predicted to be clear in the vicinity of the Cocos Islands.  Looking to the right of track for this Australian territory, which is comprised of numerous small coral islands and atolls.  Charles Darwin’s visit to these islands in 1836 helped to build his ideas on how atolls are formed.  Overlapping mapping frames of the islands and atolls were requested), Tropical Cyclone Edzani, Indian Ocean (Dynamic Event. Tropical Cyclone Edzani was predicted to be at Category 2-3 strength at the time of ISS closest approach.  Looking to the right and slightly ahead of track for the storm, which should still have presented a well-formed eye and cloud banding.  Detailed imagery of the eye structure is of particular interest), Victoria, Seychelles (looking to the right of track for the capital city of the Republic of Seychelles.  Victoria is located on the northeastern side of Mahe Island, the largest island of the archipelago.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), and Djibouti, Djibouti (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over the capital city of the Republic of Djibouti.  The city of Djibouti is situated on a small peninsula that divides the Gulf of Aden from the Gulf of Tadjoura. Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area and surrounding peninsula).  