01-06-2010January 06, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/06/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  FE-4 Kotov started his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by FE-1 Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Later, Kotov broke out & set up the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his first, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop, equipped with new software, and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment, supported by ground specialist tagup, was then closed out and the test data downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic & physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]  All five crewmembers took the periodic O-OHA (On-Orbit Hearing Assessment) test, a 30-min NASA environmental health systems examination to assess the efficacy of acoustic countermeasures, using a special software application on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.     [The O-OHA audiography test involves minimum audibility measurements for each ear over a wide range of frequencies (0.25-10 kHz) and sound pressure levels, with the crewmembers using individual-specific Prophonics earphones, new Bose ANC headsets (delivered on 30P) and the SLM (sound level meter).  To conduct the testing, the experimenter is supported by special EarQ software on the MEC, featuring an up/down-arrow-operated slider for each test frequency that the crewmember moves to the lowest sound pressure level at which the tone can still be heard.  The baseline test is required not later than about Flight Day 14 for each new Expedition and is then generally performed once per month.  Note: There have been temporary hearing deficits documented on some U.S. and Russian crewmembers, all of which recovered to pre-mission levels.]  FE-1 Suraev conducted the periodic transfer of U.S. condensate water from CWC (Collapsible Water Container, #1004) to the RS (Russian Segment) for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen & (waste) hydrogen, filling the designated KOV EDV container.  Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.]  FE-5 Noguchi initiated (later terminated) the 5-hr sampling run (the 59th) with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer).  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.    [The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  Today was water sampling day.  First, CDR Williams performed the regular periodic USOS WRS (US Segment Water Recovery System) sampling.    [Samples were collected from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Hot needle outlet for subsequent inflight processing with the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) plus WMK (Water Microbiology Kit) with MCD (Microbial Capture Device) and CDB (Coliform Detection Bag).  After the analyses, 2 hrs for the TOCA sample, the usual water reclamation from the sample bags via an absorbing towel (to be dried by airing) and data recording from TOCA drive into an SSC (Station Support Computer) via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]  Later, Williams also completed the periodic water sampling in the RS from the SM (Service Module) SVO-ZV Water Supply System and from the BRPM water distribution & heating unit with MCD (Microbial Capture Device) and CDB (Coliform Detection Bag).  Jeff retrieved & stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies deployed by the CDR on 1/4 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.     [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]  FE-1 Suraev & FE-4 Kotov continued preparations for the spacewalk, including –  Unstowing and readying EVA tools and equipment,   Configuring & testing the EVA POV support panels in the SM PkhO (Service Module Transfer Compartment) and “Pirs” DC1 (Docking Compartment/Airlock), to ensure that –   the BSS portable caps in DC1 and PkhO are installed;the Orlan depress tool is tethered in DC1 and PkhO, andthe custom wrenches for BK-3 are available both in DC1 and PkhO], plus  Assembling, activating & inspecting Orlan-MK spacesuits #4 & #5.    Maxim & Oleg also installed the Docking Mechanism (StM, Stykovochnovo mekhanizma) between Progress M-03M/35P and the DC1 airlock at the nadir port.  Since EVA-24 will use the DC1 as airlock, the 35P cargo ship at the nadir port needs to be closed off.    [StM is the "classic" probe-and-cone type, consisting of an active docking assembly (ASA) with a probe (SSh), which fits into the cone (SK) on the passive docking assembly (PSA) for initial soft dock and subsequent retraction to hard dock.  The ASA is mounted on the Progress' cargo module (GrO), while the PSA sits on the docking ports of the SM, FGB and DC1.]  For the recently concluded session of the SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight) experiment, FE-6 Creamer completed the monthly Actiwatch data download to the HRF PC (Human Research Facility Portable Computer), initialized the devices the Actiwatches, then decabled and stowed the hardware, plus powered down the laptop.  Afterwards, TJ inspected the two MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) racks to audit/verify the contents inside each box module of Dewar 2 of MELFI1 & 2.  After setting up the video camcorder for visual coverage and ground monitoring, Creamer performed major IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), making repairs on the MDCA (Multi-user Drop Combustion Apparatus).     [Steps taken included opening the FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility) doors and the CIR combustion chamber’s front-end cap for adequate cool-down, venting and pressure equalization, replacing the MDCA supply hose, stowing the removed hose for return to the ground, removing an MDCA fuel reservoir and replacing it with one (#2006) containing Heptane, replacing both failed MDCA Igniter Tips, restoring the temporarily removed CIA (Chamber Insert Assembly) and other parts, then closing the front-end cap and the FCF doors.  Final step was the removal of the CIR alignment guides to allow PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be activated before beginning CIR operations that require a microgravity environment.]  FE-6 also terminated EMU METOX (Metal Oxide) canister regeneration started yesterday by him, and then initiated the process on a new set (#0019, #0020).     [METOX canisters, used to absorb CO2 during U.S. spacewalks, are regenerated by heating them in a bake-out oven in the A/L.]  In the SM, the FE-1 did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-5 Noguchi set up the G1 camcorder for high-definition ground monitoring, then cleaned up from yesterday’s assembly of the SFA (Small Fine Arm) of the JEMRMS (Robotic Manipulator System).  The video equipment was later removed again.    [Activities included disconnecting the SFA checkout cable (then grounding it) in support of ground checkout of the ICS (Inter-Satellite Communication System) APC and IMCU (Image Compression Unit), attaching the SFA on the SAM/Attachment Mechanism, activating the JEM AL (Airlock) and moving the capture mechanism from the contact position to release position.]  Soichi also supported the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) in the JPM by attaching MEU (Measurement Experiment Unit) B (3) and PEU (Plants Experiment Unit) 2 to the CBEF Micro-G IU (Incubation Unit).  At ~3:25am EST, the FE-5 tagged up with the Japanese Flight Control Team at SSIPC/Tsukuba via S-band/audio.  Soichi read the Space Poem via video from the JPM, written as part of the JAXA EPO (Educational Payload Operations) program.    [The Tsukuba tagup is scheduled once every week, between the ISS crewmembers and SSIPC.]  At ~1:30pm, Soichi Noguchi underwent his regular PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- & Ku-band audio/video.  At ~9:40am, Williams, Creamer & Noguchi joined in a PAO TV event with high school and middle school students at Winter, Wisconsin, School & Lac Courtes Oreilles Ojibwe School, Hayward, Wisconsin.  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-4).  Later, Jeff transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Kerguelen Islands, South Indian Ocean (a break in storm fronts was predicted at the time of this overpass.  The crew had a nadir-viewing opportunity for this glaciated, volcanic island.  Overlapping mapping frames, taken along track as ISS traversed the island from SW to NE were requested), NW Glaciers of N. Patagonian Glaciers Field (some scattered clouds may have been present over the northwestern glaciers of this South American ice field.  Imagery of the glacier termini and associated fjords [if present] were requested to track changes in ice extent), Mogadishu, Somalia (ISS had a near-nadir pass over Mogadishu - the capital and largest city of Somalia.  The city's coastal location makes it an important Indian Ocean port.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area are requested), and Montevideo, Uruguay (Montevideo is the capital, largest city, and principal port of Uruguay.  ISS had a near-nadir pass over the urban area; overlapping mapping frames of the city were requested).  