
Payloads
Cardinal Heart: The crew performed a periodic cell culture media exchange in the various cell culture chambers. Cardinal Heart studies the effects of change in gravitational force on cardiovascular cells at the cellular and tissue level using engineered heart tissues (EHTs). Microgravity significantly affects heart tissues that perform work and exert an opposite force to gravity and is known to cause molecular and structural abnormalities in cells and tissues that can lead to disease. The investigation could provide new understanding of similar heart issues on Earth and help identify new treatments.
SUBSA (Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules): The crew performed the remaining SUBSA hardware installation steps and performed the first sample exchange. The objective of the SUBSA investigation is to advance understanding of the processes involved in semiconductor crystal growth. It offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C. Samples are contained in transparent quartz or ceramic ampoules with high definition video imaging available in real-time along with remote commanding of thermal control parameters.
Veg-03: The crew installed the Veggie-03 root mat and small plant pillows in the VEGGIE facility and initiated the experiment. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. But future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03 uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate Extra Dwarf Pak Choi, Amara Mustard and Red Romaine Lettuce using Seed Film which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing.
Antimicrobial Coatings: The crew deployed the Antimicrobial Coatings experiment, and performed the first touch application operations to initiate the experiment. The investigation tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Rodent Research-23 (RR-23): The crew performed fixation swaps on the Rodent samples. The Rodent Access unit was then cleaned. Effects of Microgravity on Ocular Vascular Hydrodynamics, or Rodent Research-23 (RR-23), studies function of arteries, veins, and lymphatic structures in the eye and changes in the retina before and after spaceflight. The aim is to clarify whether these vascular changes impair visual function. At least 40 percent of astronauts experience vision impairment known as Spaceflight-Associated Neuro-ocular Syndrome (SANS) on long-duration spaceflights, which could adversely affect mission success.
Systems
Robotics On-Board Trainer (RoBOT) On-Board Training (OBT): FE-6 configured and completed a training session to enhance Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) proficiency. Robotics instructors observed the activity real time. She also completed an on-board review of the ground control Cygnus release procedure and training video in preparation for NG-14 departure planned for January 6.
Completed Task List Activities:

Rodent Research gather
ARED spreadsheet record
Battery powered portable fan ops
VEG-03 OBT
VEGGIE display OBT

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

OBT support
SSRMS Elbow Pitch joint test
MSS maneuver for SSRMS walkoff to N2 PDGF
SSRMS Cygnus grapple
Payloads ops support

