
Kubik-6 Ebox Exchange:  Kelly unstowed the European Space Agency (ESA) Kubik-6 facility and exchanged the centrifuge and thermal eBoxes in preparation for the Kubik-6 commissioning.  He then performed an activation and checkout of the unit.  Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator / cooler used to study biological samples in a microgravity environment.  It is equipped with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic experiments using seeds, cells, or small animals.  
 
Fluid Shifts Before, During and After Prolonged Space Flight and Their Association with Intracranial Pressure and Visual Impairment (Fluid Shifts):  Kelly and Kornienko continued their Return-45 (R-45) Fluid Shifts session today.  Kelly collected blood samples and placed those and Kornienko’s saliva, blood and urine samples into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is under investigation to support development of preventative measures against a lasting change in vision.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrubs:  Kopra configured EMU suits 3005 and 3008 for loop scrubbing.  Once the scrubbing activity was complete, the associated hardware was reconfigured in order to perform iodination of Ion Filters for both suits.  A sample containing 250 mL of the water was obtained after the loop scrub activity to determine the effectiveness of the filtering.  A small portion of this water sample was utilized for a conductivity test onboard ISS and the remaining water will be sent to the ground for chemical analysis.
 
Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Review:  Peake and Kopra performed a review of DOUG Software in order to study translation and robotics operation paths for the upcoming Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) Extravehicular Activity (EVA), which is scheduled to occur on January 15th.
 
Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) Onboard Training:  Kopra reviewed ECWS operations then practiced EVA Cuff Checklist procedures.
 
EVA Tool Build:  Peake built two separate brush tools in order to assist in cleaning and lubricating threads during the upcoming EVA.
 
Elektron Fault:  Elektron was activated this afternoon, however experienced a fault and shutdown soon after. The crew performed initial troubleshooting steps by inspecting the EDV for the presence of bubbles. The crew confirmed that the EDV was clean with only a few very small bubbles present.  A second attempt to activate Elektron was performed without success.  At the end of the crew day, the crew purged the Elektron and left it deactivated.  Another activation attempt will be performed within the next few days.  Elektron had been deactivated since December 24th for the high beta period.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday, following translation of the Mobile Transporter (MT) to Worksite 2, robotics ground controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to pick up the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power and Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) #2.  Overnight, while capturing the SPDM PDGF, a new Dual Stage Carriage Rates functionality was tested for carriage mechanism motion.  Also, SPDM Latch End Effector (LEE) Diagnostics were performed as well as SPDM Backup Drive Unit (BDU) checkouts required every 180 days.  The MSS was then maneuvered into position to start Robotic Refueling Mission (RRM) Task board #4 (TB4) operations which are being performed this afternoon.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Fluid Shifts
Checkout of antivirus scan results on SSC laptops and report
KOSMOKARD. Setup. Initiation of 24-hour ECG recording
Progress # 431 (DC1) transfers with IMS update
US EVA – equipment gather for making “fireplace brush” and “toothbrush” tools
US EVA –making of “fireplace brush” tool (wire brush)
WRS – recirculation tank fill
ОКР-1 fire extinguishers replacement in SM (2), DC1 (1), МRМ2 (1)
ISS HAM – radio powerdown
Replacement of thermal eBox as part of KUBIK 6 science
PPS – KUBIK 6 setup
US EVA – making of “toothbrush” tool
Video equipment setup for shooting T2 Exercise
JRNL – journal entry
MATRYOSHKA-R. Lyulin -5 Hardware Indication Monitoring
PCRF – connector checkout
HABIT – video equipment setup
Preparation for EMU cooling loop cleaning
Checkout of camcorder settings for P/TV
Video recording for TV channel Nauka 2.0 (Science 2.0)
Initiation of EMU cooling loop cleaning
Test activation of ВР and ЕСG monitors
ПС1, ПС2 dust trap filters replacement in FGB (ТГК431ГрО_з1_К5. Removed – to disposal. Update IMS)
Gas-Liquid mixture filter replacement in СРВК-2М
HABIT – video recording termination
WRS – Recirculation tank fill
Maintenance activities on installation of cover sheets on SM interior panel 334 – 2nd day
Water sampling post EMU cooling loop cleaning
RET inspection for UA EVA
Hardware setup for PAO
MRM2 comm config for experiment
COULOMB CRYSTAL. Experiment Run
EMU cooling loop cleaning – iodination
EMU – conductivity test
Review of DOUG SW
MRM2 Comm reconfig to nominal
COULOMB CRYSTAL. Data copying and downlink
VZAIMODEYSTVIE-2. Experiment Run
Soyuz #719 Samsung tablet charge – initiation
TOCA – calibration monitoring
IMS update
US EVA – ECWS training exercise
KONTROL. Mode changing of “Indicator-ISS” scientific hardware
CONTENT. Experiment ops
Soyuz #719 Samsung tablet charge – termination
EMU – cooling loop maintenance – EMU reconfig
Elektron liquid tank БЖ repress prior to activation
Elektron liquid tank БЖ repress prior to activation – handover
Video recording for TV channel Nauka 2.0 (Science 2.0)
HAM radio session from Columbus
EMU – long drying
WinSCAT activity
Evening Work Prep
SOZh Maintenance
TOCA – calibration data recording monitoring
Stowage of syringes used in Н2О conductivity test
COGN – Experiment Run and questionnaire entry
Reports preparation for Roskosmos website and social networks
Video shooting for VGTRK channel
EKON-M. Observation and photography

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) Taskboard 4 Removal Operations

 
