01-07-2012January 07, 2012ISS On-Orbit Status 01/07/12  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew off duty.  >>>Russian Orthodox Christmas. Eastern Orthodox Church observes Nativity according to the old Julian Calendar. After World War I, various Orthodox Churches, beginning with the Patriarchate of Constantinople, began to abandon the Julian calendar or Old Calendar, and adopt a form of the Gregorian calendar or New Calendar. The Julian calendar is at the present time 13 days behind our Gregorian Calendar.  Russian Christmas is a day of both solemn ritual and joyous celebration<<<  S Rodzhestvom Kristovym!  After wakeup, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.   CDR Burbank completed his 12th post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol. [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Anton Shkaplerov performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.]  Dan Burbank spent ~1 hr with Andre Kuipers & Don Pettit in another handover session, during which Dan familiarized his crewmates with USOS activities.  Kuipers completed his (now) weekly task of filling out his SHD (Space Headache) questionnaire which he started after Soyuz launch and continues on ISS (on an SSC/Station Support Computer) for every week after his first week in space.  André also turned on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and started the Ku-band data flow of video recorded of his NanoRacks Smartphone experiments yesterday to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about 3.5 hrs, FE-5 turned MPC routing off again.  At ~4:05am EST, over an RGS (Russian Groundsite), Anton Shkaplerov, Oleg Kononenko & Anatoly Ivanishin received a VHF phone call with Holiday greetings from the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, Alexei II.  FE-2, FE-4 & FE-5 conducted their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Andre at ~5:00am, Oleg at ~6:40am, Anatoly at ~9:40am EST.  At ~8:10am, the six crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).  The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for FE-1, FE-2 & FE-4 for today suggested more preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).  