
SpaceX-5 Launch Aborted:  SpaceX-5 launch was aborted shortly before liftoff this morning, after ground teams observed an unexpected telemetry indication associated with an upper stage actuator. The next launch attempt is scheduled for Friday, January 9th at 4:08am CST.  Dragon will deliver more than 5,000 pounds of food, supplies and science experiments to ISS. 
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (KP):  Wilmore set up a sample image, individually homogenize a sample inside the BCAT-KP Slow Growth Sample Module, manually took photos using EarthKam software and initialized the camera intervalometer for automated photography.  BCAT-KP provides a platform for material and industrial scientists to investigate colloid phase changes, providing results that may be used to develop new colloidal materials and formulations with unique properties. The results may support new applications, from new liquid crystals to consumer goods having longer shelf life and uses.
Biolab:  Virts and Cristoforetti continued performing troubleshooting activities for the Biolab Handling Mechanism Incubator Access Door.  The Biolab is scheduled to support the Triplelux B experiment arriving on SpaceX-5.  Biolab is a full International Standard Payload Rack (ISPR), part of the Columbus Laboratory.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2):  After retrieval and initialization by the Russian crew, Virts received the RADI-N environmental detectors from the Russian segment.  He then deployed the eight bubble detectors in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM).  Radi-N2 Neutron Field Study (Radi-N2) is a follow on investigation designed to characterize the neutron radiation environment aboard the ISS. Eight neutron “bubble detectors” produced by the Canadian company Bubble Technology Industries are attached to fixed locations inside the ISS, including one carried by a crewmember. The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
Microgravity Experiment Research Locker/INcubator (MERLIN):  Virts removed and discarded used desiccants and replace with fresh desiccant packs in the MERLIN.
Advanced Colloids Experiment M3 (ACE M3):  Virts cleaned up and dispensed oil on ACE samples on and inside the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) AFC (Auxiliary Fluids Container).  ACE-M3 research involves the design and assembly of complex three-dimensional structures from small particles suspended within a fluid medium. These so-called self-assembled colloidal structures are vital to the design of advanced optical materials. In the microgravity environment, we will study the relation between particle shape, crystal symmetry and structure, a fundamental issue in condensed matter science.
Bone Densitometer:  Cristoforetti reviewed on board training materials, configured equipment and performed the Bone Densitometer Calibrations.  Many of the conditions of spaceflight that adversely affect astronauts, such as the loss of bone density, can be studied effectively using mice flown in space. Approximately the size of a consumer microwave oven, the Bone Densitometer (BD) uses X-rays to measure the bone mineral density (and the lean and fat tissue) of mice living aboard the ISS. As a result, researchers hope to develop medical technology that will combat bone density loss in space and on Earth, helping millions of senior citizens who suffer from osteoporosis.
Skin-B:  Cristoforetti conducted her third Skin-B data collection using the Tewameter probe to measure the skin barrier function; the Visioscan Camera to measure skin surface topography; and the Corneometer probe to measure skin hydration. The Skin-B experiment will improve understanding of skin aging, which is slow on Earth but very much accelerated in space. This will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general. The data could help in determining impact on astronauts on future missions to the Moon and Mars for example where environmental conditions are more challenging.
Inter-Module Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning:  Virts cleaned the Lab forward port IMV.   Results from the ISS Sound Level Meter Survey taken in November indicated likely performance degradation of the US Lab Forward Port IMV Fan.   
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.


Regeneration of БМП Ф2 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
URAGAN. Observations and Photography
PTV – Starting Battery Charge
RGN-REC TK – Transfer and Replacement
CIR – Hardware Setup
SEISMOPROGNOZ
SKIN B – Connecting hardware to the Laptop and performing measurements
Audio Dosimeter Preparation
MATRYOSHKA-R
Bone Densitometer. OBT
WRS Water Sample Analysis
RADIN – Handover of Detectors to RS crew
RADIN – Dosimeter Installation
OTKLIK. Hardware Check
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHS) Pre-Treat Tank and Pre-Treat Tank Hose Remove & Replace
Closure of Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Hand Valve No.2 in the Lab
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Reconnecting the ARIS Vacuum Exhaust Umbilical to the FIR LAB1S4 Waste Gas QD.
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV.
VIZIR. Experiment Ops
CheCS OBT
Fungistat Treatment of Areas behind SM Panels
SM Ventilation System Preventive Maintenance. Group В2
Audit of Free Space in the RS ISS Stowage Zone
TOCA Data Recording
MERLIN3 – Replacement of Desiccant
FIR – Hardware Checkout, Rack Doors Open. Video Recording
BCAT – Sample Image Setup and Photography
ACE-M3. Samples Preparation
CUP – Hardware Setup
FIR Rack Door Close
Bone Densitometer. Calibration
T61p Battery Test
IMS Delta File Prep DRGN – Rendezvous and Prox Ops Program (RPOP) Setup [Deferred]
EXPANDER Exercise
COGN – Experiment Ops
БМП Ф2 Absorption Cartridge Regeneration (termination)

Completed Task List Items

ATV5 foam restow [In work]
EVA tool config [In work]

Ground Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.


Nominal commanding
Capacity Test for Battery Set 2B1 (scheduled overnight)

