
Correction to the Friday, January 8 Daily Summary: The Collapsible Contingency Urinal (CCU) In-Cabin Demonstration was reported as completed which was an error. The demonstration was re-scheduled for later this week. 
SpaceX (SpX)-21 Undock and Return: The crew completed final cargo packing over the weekend and today and egressed the vehicle this morning, however today’s undock and landing of Dragon was waived off due to poor weather at the landing site. Teams are assessing weather for undock tomorrow, January 12.
Payloads
Antimicrobial Coatings: As part of the on-going experiment, the crew touched each coupon on the placard.  The investigation tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Food Physiology: Saliva collections were completed in support of the Food Physiology investigation.  The experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight.
Spacesuit Evaporation Rejection Flight Experiment (SERFE):  Samples were retrieved from cold stowage and packed for return on SpX-21.  SERFE demonstrates a new technology to remove heat from spacesuits and maintain appropriate temperatures for crew members and equipment during space walks. The technology uses evaporation of water for cooling. The SERFE system incorporates a Titanium and Hastelloy water loop that differs from previous space suit life support systems that use stainless steel.  The investigation determines whether microgravity affects performance and evaluates the technology’s effect on contamination and corrosion of spacesuit material.
VEG-03J: The crew performed plant thinning and pillow priming activities. Plant thinning removes all but one plant from each pillow, leaving the largest seedling in each plant pillow to continue growing. The ground team plants multiple seeds in each of the plant pillows in order to ensure successful germination of at least one seed. The plant pillow prime adds water to support continued hydration of the plants.  Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. But future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03 uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate Extra Dwarf Pak Choi, Amara Mustard and Red Romaine Lettuce using Seed Film which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing.
Systems
Extravehicular Activitiy (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for upcoming planned EVAs the crew performed the following:

In-Flight Refill Unit (IRU)/Fluid Pumping Unit (FPU) Remove & Replace (R&R): This piece of equipment is used to recharge the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) feedwater tanks on ISS.  Since 2006, the FPU occasionally exhibited a no-flow condition during EMU water recharge activities. To date, all the FPU no-flow occurrences have been recoverable and procedures were developed to provide a consistent method of recovery.  Starting in June of 2020, the no-flow occurrences have become more frequent so today the crew R&Rd the unit and completed a checkout.
Tool Configuration: The crew configured safety tethers in safety tether packs.

Completed Task List Activities:

EDV-Y R&R
Dragon cargo transfer ops
COL rack front audit
WHC KTO replace

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Dragon departure
Payloads ops support

