
Vascular Echo: With ground team assistance, a 53S crewmember performed a Vascular Echo protocol, which included scans of his neck, thigh, portal vein, and heart. Following the scanning activity, the subject completed three consecutive blood pressure measurements using the Cardio-lab Holter Arterial blood pressure unit. Vascular Echo examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Repository): Today a 52S subject began a 24-hour urine sample collection to support the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Intracranial Pressure & Visual Impairment (IPVI): A 52S crewmember took both front and side view pictures to check for any facial edema, followed by a conference with ground experts.  The IPVI investigation studies changes to crewmembers’ eyes and optic nerves by analyzing arterial blood pressure and blood flow to the brain before and after spaceflight. This investigation uses non-invasive methods to measure intracranial pressure instead of the more common invasive methods.
Meteor Hard Drive Swap-out with Diffraction Grating Configuration: The crew removed and replaced the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) hard drive and changed the diffraction grating in the Meteor laptop located in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).  The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument with the primary purpose of observing meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. Since the parent comets or asteroids for most of the meteor showers are identified, the study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.  
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS): Using the Red camera, the crew took images of Fitz Roy, Patagonia. EIISS is used to support creation of a series of videos showcasing Earth views taken from space. The videos are taken with cameras on the ISS in 6K hi-resolution and are integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement.
SpaceX (SpX)-13 Dragon Departure: On Saturday at 4:00am CST, the ISS Crew released Dragon utilizing the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). Following Dragon departure, Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position and provided video support of the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) petals closure. Dragon splashed down in the Pacific Ocean on Saturday at 9:38am CST.  Recovery forces then retrieved cargo, including human and animal science samples, biotechnology studies, and physical science and education investigations. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Operations: The crew performed EMU 3004 suit maintenance, which included scrubbing and iodination of EMU and Airlock cooling water loops. A water sample was taken for subsequent conductivity testing in order to determine the effectiveness of the scrubbing.
Hatch Seal Inspection: The crew performed scheduled maintenance to clean the United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) hatch seals in Columbus, Node 2, Airlock, Node 3, Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM), and the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). They will also inspect the sealing surface and hatch handle mechanism for Foreign Object Debris (FOD) or damage. 
Transition to (X2) R16 Software:  As part of the R16 software transition starting today, the crew will install hard drives containing the latest Portable Computer System (PCS) software (R19) onto 5 PCS laptops. Once installed, the ground will load the latest Command and Control software (R16) onto the Command and Control Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM)s. The software transition is expected to be completed on January 18th. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities complete unless otherwise noted.


Reminder 2 Vascular Echo Resting Ultrasound Scan
Reminder HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection
IMS Update
ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filter Replacement and В1, В2 Fan Screen Cleaning in DC1.
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
SCENARIO. Observations and photography
URAGAN. Observation and photography
Life On The Station Photo and Video
ECON-M. Observation and photography
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
SPLANH. SPLANHOGRAF Setup, Initiate EGEG Recording. Tagup with specialists
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection 30 Minutes – Subject
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection – Operator
SPLANX. Photography during experiment
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
Daily Planning Conference
Intracranial Pressure & Visual Impairment (IPVI) Face Photo-taking
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
JEM Airlock Press
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Teardown
 X2R16 Software Transition Review
Installation and Test of Force Loader [HC-1M] Control Panel
ISS HAM Video Power Down
Restow Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK) and SpX IMV duct.
Vascular Echo – Echo Ultrasound Setup for Ultrasound Scan Session
Intracranial Pressure & Visual Impairment (IPVI) Medical Conference
Emergency egress drill
Station Support Computer (SSC) Relocate To LAB
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill Part 3
Water Refill Kit Battery Charge
JEM Airlock Leak Check
Replacement of ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filters and Cleaning В1, B2 Fan Screens in MRM2
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
Charging GoPro 360 Camcorder Battery, start
SPLANH. ECG data recording end. Closeout Ops. Tagup with specialists as necessary
Vascular Echo 125min Scan – Subject
Photo TV ISS Video Survey
MRM1-FGB Screw Clamp Maintenance
BIOCARD. Experiment Ops. Tagup with specialists
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub Initiation
Meteor Hard Drive Diffraction
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval And Insertion Operations
Vascular Echo CDL Holter Arterial BP Measurement – Subject
Filling (separation) of EDV [KOB] for Elektron or EDV-SV.
Charging Soyuz 737 IRIDIUM Phone, Start Recharge
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Post Scrub Cooling Loop Water (H2O) Sample
Portable Computer System(PCS) R19 Hard Drive Pre-Gather
Charging GoPro 360 Camcorder Battery, terminate
Soyuz 737 IRIDIUM telephone charging – charge monitoring
Portable Computer System R19 Hard Drive Install
Soyuz 737 IRIDIUM Phone Charging, Terminate Charge / (Hand over Iridium charger to CDR)
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Iodination
Health Check of GoPro 360 Camcorder
СОЖ maintenance
Soyuz 734 IRIDIUM Phone Recharging, Setup, Start Recharging (Take the charger for Iridium from FE-4)
Soyuz 734 IRIDIUM telephone charging – charge monitoring
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
Charging Soyuz 734 IRIDIUM Phone, Terminate Charge, Teardown of the Setup
Lighting Effects Numerical Test Packet Photo
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection
X2R16 Portable Computer System (PCS) Connect
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfiguration
Vascular Echo – Echo Ultrasound Stow
Hatch Seal Inspection
MELFI 1 Nitrogen Pressure Check
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap
MELFI 2 Nitrogen Pressure Check
MELFI 3 Nitrogen Pressure Check
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 10
ISS HAM Video Power Up

Completed Task List Activities

Airlock Camera Swap
Food Stowage Consolidation Part 1
EVA PHA Hose Reconfig
EVA On Orbit Fit Check [Active]
JAXA Video Take Part 4 [Active]
EVA Procedure Review
Handover Debrief

Ground Activities
All activities complete unless otherwise noted.


X2R16 – CCS R16 Software Load
CCS Reconfig

