
Confined Combustion: The crew continued the experiment, using a series of fabric (Sibal) samples with either no baffles, shiny/reflective baffles, or clear baffles installed at various distances from the samples.  Sibal fabric is a mixture of fiberglass and cotton which keeps its basic shape as it burns.  Seven total samples/ignitions were completed today.  The baffles are used to change the airflow path and alter the radiated heat environment around the flame.  This project aims to study flame spread in confined spaces—specifically the interactions between spreading flames and surrounding walls. Flame spread in confined spaces (such as buildings and vehicles) may pose a more serious fire hazard than flame spread in open spaces because of acceleration caused by radiative heat feedback from the surrounding walls and a tunnel flow acceleration effect. However, several aspects of flame spread are difficult to study in normal gravity conditions. Gravity-driven buoyancy flow complicates the fire growth process and prohibits a fundamental understanding of the underlying physics. However, in microgravity, buoyancy is eliminated, allowing scientists to better study the physics of flame spread. 
Mouse Mission-5 (MM-5) prep:  As a continuation of the preparation for MM-5, the crew removed the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit from Cell Biology Experiment Facility-Left (CBEF-L) Incubator Unit for Checkout.  JAXA Mouse Habitat Unit-5 (MHU-5) examines the effects of partial G on mice using the JAXA-developed mouse habitat cage units (HCU) that can be installed in the newly developed Centrifuge-equipped Biological Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) on the ISS. Stress caused by partial G may alter gene expression in cells of the body. The investigation analyzes any such alterations and their possible effects on development of germ cells, which carry genetic information and expression to subsequent generations. 
Standard Measures/Repository:  The crew performed a blood collection in support of the Standard Measures (SM) and Repository investigations.  The aim of the SM investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.  Repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Systems:
P6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Today, the crew continued preparing for tomorrow’s P6 channel 4B battery upgrade EVA #1 by performing their equipment lock preps for Extravehicular Activity Mobility Units (EMU) 3004 and 3008.  This is a continuation of the equipment lock prep started yesterday. The crew also completed their EVA tool audit, and Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) / Robotic Workstation (RWS) setups. Finally, the crew completed their EVA procedure reviews and a participated in a pre-EVA procedure review conference.  The first of the two planned P6 4B channel battery EVAs is set for tomorrow, Wednesday, January 15, 2020. The crew is scheduled to egress the Quest Joint Airlock shortly after 6 am CT.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS): Today, Robotic Ground Controllers (ROBO) powered up the MSS and
un-stowed the HTV8 Exposed Pallet (EP8) from the Payload Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA) facility using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS); currently based off of the Mobil Transporter (MT) Mobil Base Station (MBS) #3. Once EP8 was un-stowed, ROBO executed an MT translation from work site 7 to work site 8. These activities were performed in preparation for tomorrows P6 channel 4B battery upgrade EVA.
Inflight Maintenance Hatch Seal Inspection:  Today, the ISS crew completed a cleaning and inspection of the USOS Hatch Seals, Hatch Plate Sealing Surfaces, and Crank Handle Mechanisms for FOD or damage. 
Completed Task List Activities:

No task list activities were completed.

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Payload Operations Support
X2R18 database transition
Columbus Cycle 15 transition  

Tuesday, 1/14 (GMT 014)
Payloads:

Confined Combustion Ops
Mouse Mission-5 prep
Standard Measures/Repository Blood Collect

Systems:

EVA Tool Config
EVA Procedure and Conference
DOUG ROBO setup
EVA Tool Audit
EVA MedOps Activities
MedOps TOCA Analysis
IFM Hatch Seal Inspection
TOCA WWB Change-out
Columbus PWS Activation and TM/TC Check

Wednesday, 1/15 (GMT 015)
Payloads:


Standard Measures

Systems:

P6 4B Battery EVA#1 (Prep and EVA)
SSRMS EVA Support
PEPS Inspection

Thursday, 1/16 (GMT 016)
Payloads:

Food Acceptability
JEM PS-120 UOP Cable disconnect
MHU-5 prep

Systems:

EVA Debrief
EVA Procedure Review, DOUG Review
EVA Metox Regen
EVA LLB
MMU1 R&R
Col Bay Clean-Up
HRF2 Rack Rotation

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

IMS Delta File Prep
Preparation of reports for Roscosmos website and social media
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Reminder for EVA In-Suit Light Exercise (ISLE) Preparation
Standard Measures Post-sleep Questionnaire
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection
HRF Generic MELFI Sample Insertion
ИК0501 Gas Analyzer О2 Channel Adjustment (Uout=2.8V).
XF305 Camcorder Setup
JAXA Mouse Mission Cage Detachment from CBEF-L IU
Portable Workstation 1 Activation
TERMINATOR. Cable Installation.
On MCC Go Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Absorption Cartridge (end).
Portable Workstation 1 Telecommand and Telemetry Checkout
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Pre EVA Examination Setup
On MCC Go Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Cartridge, initiate
PILLE ISS sensors gathering and setup prior to USOS EVA
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Pre EVA Examination – Subject
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Pre EVA Examination – Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
Water transfer from Progress 443 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank 1 to ЕДВ
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Pre-EVA Periodic Health Status Examination – Stow
Environmental Health System (EHS) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collect
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
Portable Onboard Computers (POC) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Setup
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Setup
Confined Combustion Test Operations
TERMINATOR. Photography of cables at the point of hardware installation
Hatch Seal Inspection
Environmental Health System (EHS) Coliform Water Processing
Equipment Lock (E-LK) Preparation
In-Flight Maintenance Lab Bypass Duct Remove
MELFI 1 Ice Brick Insert 1
Photo TV Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) Camera Turnaround
Medical Kits Audit
Preventive Maintenance of SM Ventilation Subsystem. Group А
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Audit.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Waste Water Bag (WWB) Changeout
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
TERMINATOR. Hardware test activation.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Conference
UF-ATMOSFERA.
СОЖ maintenance. Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
UF-ATMOSFERA. Hardware Check

 