
SpaceX (SpX)-13 Dragon Unberth:  Today, the crew completed the final packing of critical items into the Dragon Spacecraft. They then egressed the vehicle and removed utility jumpers, followed by the depressurization of the Node 2 to Dragon vestibule.  Ground teams then utilized the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to unberth and maneuver Dragon to an overnight park position.  Dragon release is scheduled for early Saturday morning at ~4:00 AM CST with splashdown occurring at ~9:36 AM CST the same day.
Lighting Effects Meter Readings: The crew setup and configured the Light Meter hardware and obtained the Light Meter readings before downloading the data, and stowing the hardware. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Petri Plant Plate Removal: The LMM Petri Base with the Petri Plate was removed from the LMM Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC).  The crew also removed the plate from the base, and re-installed the base into the LMM AFC. Plants cultivated in microgravity look mostly normal, but space-grown plants have a number of distinct features compared to plants grown in comparable habitats on Earth, most notably in the way their roots grow. The Characterizing Arabidopsis Root Attractions-2 (CARA-2) investigation studies the molecular signals that can cause these changes, including the genetic underpinnings of how a plant senses the direction of gravity. Results can improve efforts to grow plants in microgravity on future space missions, enabling crews to use plants for food and oxygen. 
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Repository): Today a 53S subject completed his Flight Day (FD) 30 blood sample collections to support the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were then placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Cell Science Validation Locker (Bioculture System) Transfer for Return: The Bioculture System was removed from EXPRESS Rack 7 of the ISS and installed and powered on SpX-13 Dragon for return. The Bioculture System is space biological science incubator for use on the ISS, with the capability of transporting active and stored experiments. This incubator supports a wide diversity of tissue, cell, and microbiological cultures and experiment methods to meet any space flight research experiment goals and objectives.  The facility enables variable duration and long-duration cellular and microbiological experiments on ISS to meet the scientific needs of academic and biotechnology interests. 
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS): Using the Red camera, the crew took images of South Florida to the Bahamas. EIISS is used to support creation of a series of videos showcasing Earth views taken from space. The videos are taken with cameras on the ISS in 6K hi-resolution and are integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement. 
Space Headaches:  The crew completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Observation and photography using Photo Equipment
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Gather
Life On The Station Photo and Video
X2R16 Software Transition Review
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
URAGAN. Observation and photography
ECON-M. Observation and photography
МО-8. Configuration Setup
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection 30 Minutes
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection – Operator
Body Mass Measurement
МО-8. Closeout Ops
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
XF305 Camcorder Setup
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
HRF Boot Drive Prep
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
Node 2 Nadir Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK) Gather
Checkout А-2
Cold Stowage Dragon Double Coldbag Pack Overview Review
Advanced Nano Step Return Bag retrieval from MERLIN.
Installation of Advanced Nano Step Cell 1 into Advanced Nano Step Return Bag
BIOCARD. Experiment Session
Cold Stowage Double Coldbag Pack
HRF1 PC 1 USB Load Installation Conclude
Dragon/Node 2 VESTIBULE DEPRESS Gather and Setup
24-hour BP recording (terminate)
DAN. Experiment Session
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Dragon Locker Install
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
Double Coldbag Transfer to Dragon
Vacuum Cleaning ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in MRM2
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Conclude Stow
Bioculture System, Transfer, and DRAGON Install
On MCC Go BRI power off
FGB СПОПТ ИДЭ-3 Smoke Detector needle cleaning.
Rerouting Ethernet cables above BRI unit (panel 229А).
Lighting Effects Light Meter Setup, Readings, and Stow
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Open
On MCC Go BRI power on. Express-check of nominal network configuration
LMM Petri Plants Plate Removal
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Display and Control Panel (DCP) Powerup
Dragon Egress in Preparation for Departure
USOS Window Shutter Close
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Close
HRF Generic Urine Collection Setup
Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Rotation, Installation, and Closeout
Dragon Vestibule Configuration for Demate
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
FGB СПОПТ ИДЭ-3 Smoke Detector needle cleaning.
Dragon/Node 2 VESTIBULE DEPRESS
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Dragon/Node 2 VESTIBULE DEPRESS Teardown
Reminder HRF Generic Urine Collection
Reminder Rodent Research Thermal Consideration
Crew Command Panel (CCP) Cable Route and Checkout
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
JAXA Video Taking Part 4
EVA Procedure Review

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


SpX-13 Dragon unberth

