
Fluid Shifts: As a continuation of the Fluid Shifts investigation, today the crew performed the baseline imaging part of the investigation.  Baseline imaging uses various hardware to measure a multitude of anatomical and physiological data points including arterial and venous measures of head and neck, tissue thickness of lower and upper body, ocular structure, etc.  Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging with Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure). The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
Kubik: The crew removed the temperature and centrifuge eBox, installed the new Kubik Electronics, and performed a series of checkouts for the new hardware.  Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator / cooler used to study biological samples in a microgravity environment.  It is equipped with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic experiments using seeds, cells, and small animals.
Transition to (X2) R17 Software: Ground teams completed the multiday R17 software transition by loading Node Control Software (NCS) R5 onto Node 1-1 and Node 1-2 Multiplexer/Demultiplexers (MDMs) and Airlock System (ALSYS) R4 software onto the Airlock MDM. In addition, the ground team installed five Timeliner Bundles onto the Primary Command and Control (C&C) MDM.
New capabilities for X2_R17 software include:

PCS Texting

– Enables United States Crew Vehicle (USCV) and Soyuz crews to send 100-character (max) messages from their respective safe havens in the event of an emergency. MCC insight into texts and uplink capability will be available ~October 2019.

New Boot Software for C&C MDMs

– First time upgrading EPIC MDM Boot Software on-orbit

Longeron Shadowing counter checkpointed in C&C MDM

–  Prevents a nuisance warning upon C&C transition for any array that had been shadowed at the time of the transition

Updates to InterFace Heat Exchanger (IFHX) Leak Responses to Columbus, Lab, and Node 3

– Closes Water On Off Valves in Columbus module and transitions Internal Thermal Control System to Dual (Lab and Node 3)

Other Improvements

– New Timeliner bundle will automate the commanding to radiation devices typically performed by the Biomedical Engineer (BME) console operator
– Command/Telemetry updates to support the Water Storage System (WSS) 
Completed Task List Activities:

ARED Exercise Bench Torque
Payloads Network Attached Storage (NAS) Deep Cleaning
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Gathering
Columbus ITCS water sample using Columbus Coolant Fluid Servicer for Return to Ground
Node 2 Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Collection
Node 2 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Collection
JEM Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Collection
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Stow

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


X2R17 Software Transition

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Friday, 01/18:
Payloads:


Behavioral Core Measures
CIR/ACME reconfiguration
SODI DSC flash disk exchange
Fluid Shifts
MSG/SAMS TSH troubleshooting
Slingshot preparation
Team Task Switching
Veggie light meter installation

Systems

ISS Reboost

Saturday, 01/19: Crew Day Off
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Inter Module Ventilation (IMV) flow measurement for JPM Module.
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
SCENERY. Observation and photography using photo equipment
ECON-M. Observations and Photography
Recharging Soyuz 741 Samsung PC (if charge level below 80%)
Fluid Shifts OCT2 Baseline Setup
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Fluid Shifts CDL Holter Arterial BP Hardware Don
Testing Air Conditioning System [СКВ1] and [СКВ1] Compressor Electrical Circuitry in SM.
On MCC Go Mating telemetry connectors
Fluid Shifts CCFP Baseline Test
Fluid Shifts USOS Operations Historical Documentation Photography
Vacuum Cleaning ВД1 and ВД2 airducts in DC1
Fluid Shifts OCT2 Baseline Exam
Fluid Shifts OCT2 Baseline Stow
Fluid Shifts DPOAE Baseline Test
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Setup
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Exam Operator
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Exam Subject
Fluid Shifts CDL Holter Arterial BP Hardware Doff
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Stow
Fluid Shifts CCFP Baseline Stow
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Coliform Water Sample Analysis 44 +/- 4 hours post processing
Kubik 5 Electronics installation
Closeout for Installation of bonding strap for Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) DC/DC converter unit 2 (DCU2) and MSPR Hub.
Installation of insert-cable to test Silence the tone command from DC1 C&W panel.
Kubik 5 setup on COL1D2
Kubik Electronics Commissioning
Checkout of C&W panel in DC1.
СОЖ Maintenance
Delta File Prep
Kubik Electronics Commissioning
Combustion Integrated Rack Hardware Gather
Kubik Electronics Commissioning
MERLIN 3 Desiccant Removal
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
MERLIN 5 Desiccant Removal
MERLIN 1 Desiccant Swap
Kubik Electronics Commissioning
ISS Experience Crew Conference
On MCC Go Filling up Progress 439 (DC1) СрПК Section 2 with N2

 