
Food Acceptability:  This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system. Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. Today, the ISS crew completed the Questionnaire to provide feedback for this on-going study.
Food Physiology:  In support of the Food Physiology study, the crew participated in a diet briefing with the Payload Investigator.  The Integrated Impact of Diet on Human Immune Response, the Gut Microbiota, and Nutritional Status During Adaptation to Spaceflight (Food Physiology) experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight.
JAXA Mouse Mission: The crew attached the Mouse Mission-5 Habitat Unit and connected the power interface.  The purpose of this mission is to analyze any alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term space environment.
SABL (Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory):  The crew installed the CO2 incubator controller and inserted the short Tray.  The Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL) supports a wide variety of experiments in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and experiments. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 for cell cultures and has 2 USB 2.0 ports and 2 Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28vdc and 5vdc power supplies for experiment use. 
Systems: 
X2R18 Software Transition: Today, the ISS crew continued with supporting on-orbit transition to the X2R18 by completing Part 3 of the laptop imaging of the remaining three Portable Computer System (PCS) laptops. As of today, the prime Command and Control (C&C-1) and Backup Command and Control (C&C-3) C&Cs have transitioned to the CCS R18. The Cupola, Airlock (A/L), Service Module (SM), and LAB PCSs are on PCS R21.
Columbus Cycle 15 Software Transition: Today, the crew supported the preparation for the Columbus Module software transition by rotating the Human Research Facility (HRF) rack and installing an upgraded Mass Memory Unit (MMU).   The crew removed the MMU2 Mkl and replaced it with MMU MkII; the new MMU has the Cycle 15 Software already installed.
P6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Today, the ISS crew continued preparing for the upcoming P6 channel 4B battery upgrade EVAs by recharging the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) consumables for suits 3004 and 3008. The maintenance activities consisted of cooling loop scrubs, as well as, oxygen & water recharging.  EMU 3008 indicated a lower than expected oxygen pressure reading following the oxygen dump and refill portion of the procedures. Ground teams suspected that the O2 actuator was in an intermediate position vs. the expected off position. The crew was instructed to cycle the O2 actuator ending in the desired “off” position and the ground team proceeded with another oxygen system leak check.  The EMU 3308 loop scrub was deferred today and is currently scheduled for tomorrow, January 11.
Completed Task List Activities:

No task list activities were completed.

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Payload Operations Support
X2R18 database transition 

Friday, 1/10 (GMT 010)
Payloads:


Food Acceptability (NASA)
Mouse Habitat Interface unit Install to CBEF-L and Checkout and Utility Outlet Panel config (JAXA)
Food Physiology Briefing (NASA)
SABL CO2 Incubator Controller install and Short Tray Insert (NASA) 

Systems:

EVA EMU Water Recharging
EVA EMU Loop Scrub
UPA Brine Filter R&R
EVA LLB Ops Term
EVA PTV POM Battery Charge Swap
MMU2 R&R
HRF1 Rack Rotate
Columbus Bay 4 Clean-up
Columbus VCA2 ADJ
Vision Test

Saturday, 1/11 (GMT 011)
Payloads:


Standard Measures Saliva collect (NASA) 

Systems:

Med Ops Ultrasound Scans

Sunday, 1/12 (GMT 012)
Payloads:


Crew Off-Duty

Systems:

Crew Off-Duty

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


JAXA Mouse Mission 5 Item Gathering
Photo TV Battery Charge Initiation
Cleanup HRF-1 rotation path.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Brine Filter Change-out
Columbus Video Camera Assembly 2 Adjustment
HRF-1 Rack Tilt Down at COL1F4
JAXA Mouse Mission 5 Adaptor Plate and Interface Unit Installation
ALGOMETRIYA. Preparation and conducting measurements in tenso- and thermo-algometry mode.
ПС1, ПС2 Dust Collector Filter Replacement in FBG.
MMU2 Remove and Replace
Setup and activation of Crew Onboard Support Kit (КСПЭ) equipment for mpeg2 TV coverage of ЕДВ [КОВ] filling/separation from SM
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ [КОВ] for Elektron-VM or ЕДВ-[СВ] (flush water container)
Vacuum cleaning of FGB pressurized adapter
Cleaning FGB Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger (ГЖТ) Detachable Screens 1, 2, 3
HRF-1 Rack Tilt Up at COL1F4
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge
Columbus Bay 4 Restore
Portable Computer System (PCS) Hard Drive Image
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub Initiation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
SEPARATION. Download new algorithm and activate [СРВ-У-РС] system.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – LAB
Deactivate camcorder, TV system monitoring equipment, close applications
SEPARATION. Conduct distillation.
Portable Computer System (PCS) Imaging Stow
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Termination
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab, CO2 Incubator Installation
Life on the Station Photo/Video
ALGOMETRIYA. Conducting measurementA3:A67s in tenso- and -algometry mode. Tagup with specialists
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab, Short Tray Insert
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 2 Setup Alternate
SEPARATION. Deactivation of [СРВ-У-РС] system. Log-file downlink.
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfiguration
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan
IMS Delta File Prep
IMPACT. Photography of IMPACT plate No.1 from DC1 EV Hatch 1 window Imagery time: 16:18 – 16:22
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT2
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan performed by a Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Terminate
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) Activation
ALGOMETRIYA. Conducting measurements in tenso- and thermo-algometry mode.

 