01-15-2011January 15, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/15/11  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – Crew rest day.  FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dima will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Scott, Oleg, Alex, Dmitri, Paolo & Cady completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  As part of the uborka house cleaning, Sasha, Oleg & Dima conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille and Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM (Service Module).  Also as part of the crew’s regular morning inspection tour, Kaleri completed the routine checkup of circuit breakers & fuses in the MRM1 Rassvet & MRM2 Poisk research modules.     [The monthly checkup in the DC-1 (Docking Compartment), MRM1 & MRM2 looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 & BPP-36.  MRM2 & MRM1 were derived from the DC-1 concept and are very similar to it.]  FE-6 Cady Coleman conducted her 2nd (FD30) HRF (Human Research Facility) Generic 24-hr urine collection period, with samples deposited in MELFI.     [The operational products for blood & urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]  In the DC1, FE-2 Skripochka initiated the recharge process on the first 825M3 Orlan battery pack in the ZU-S recharge unit for EVA-27.  FE-2 also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.]  Time again for the recharge of the Motorola Iridium-9505A satellite phones in the Soyuz Descent Modules: completed by Dmitri Kondratyev for TMA-20/25S (#230, at MRM1) and by Alex Kaleri for TMA-01M/24S (#701, docked at MRM2), a monthly routine job and Dima’s first, Sasha’s 2nd.       [After retrieving the phones from their location in the spacecraft Descent Modules (SA, spuskayemyy apparat), the crewmembers initiated the recharge of the lithium-ion batteries, monitoring the process every 10-15 minutes as it took place.  Upon completion, the phones were returned inside their SSSP Iridium kits and stowed back in the SA’s ODF (operational data files) container.  The satphone accompanies returning ISS crews on Soyuz reentry & landing for contingency communications with SAR (Search-and-Rescue) personnel after touchdown (e.g., after an “undershoot” ballistic reentry, as happened during the 15S return).  The Russian-developed procedure for the monthly recharging has been approved jointly by safety officials.  During the procedure, the phone is left in its fire-protective fluoroplastic bag with open flap.  The Iridium 9505A satphone uses the Iridium constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to relay the landed Soyuz capsule's GPS (Global Positioning System) coordinates to helicopter-borne recovery crews.  The older Iridium-9505 phones were first put on board Soyuz in August 2003.  The newer 9505A phone, currently in use, delivers 30 hours of standby time and three hours of talk, up from 20 and two hours, respectively, on the older units.]  Working in the Soyuz 25S spacecraft, Kondratyev & Kaleri continued troubleshooting activities on the GA/gas analyzer in the SA/Descent Module.    [The troubleshooting is to determine why the SA continues to blow power line fuses.  Dmitri & Alex used the Elektronika MultiMeter MMTs-01 instrument to take voltage measurements on the GA power circuits. ]   Alex conducted final loading operations on Progress 39P, today stowing US trash transferred earlier by Cady Coleman.  Cady meanwhile responded to a late US tool request for the Russian EVA-27, readying one additional tool caddy (which makes for a total of 3 caddies).    [This was a late request from the Russians and it is needed for the Orlan configuration on Monday.]  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).     [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  At ~3:55am EST, Paolo powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 4:00am conducted a ham radio session with students at Istituto Comprensivo Via Toscana 2 Civitavecchia, Roma, Italy.  At ~9:05am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  At ~9:50am, Alex, Oleg & Dmitri engaged in a PAO phone interview via S-band with Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos Magazine and an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.       At ~10:15am, Nespoli & Coleman had an audio/teleconference with ground specialists to discuss the details of the proposed HTV2 Grapple Practice #3 for the robotics SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System).  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Six -- Week 8.  2D NANO Template (JAXA):    No report.  3D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     No report.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):     BCAT-5 samples 2 and 3 from Proctor & Gamble (Lynch and Kodger) are being analyzed (sample 1 had gelled over the last year and is no longer good).  Sample 10 did not show colors (crystallization) when viewed at different angles with a mag-light when the ISS cabin temperature was at its minimum.  The BCAT samples may be sufficiently insulated from the ISS environment in microgravity inside the containment module that sample 10 may not be getting cold enough to crystallize. There is no easy way to test this on Earth where convection is present.  There may be other ways to drop the temperature of the samples by several degrees on ISS.  Being able to cycle in and out of the cold should anneal the sample 10 crystal and make a better crystal with time; but we should first get sample 10 to crystallize before worrying about how this might be accomplished if the few degree change in ISS cabin temperature with the ISS coming in and out of view of the sun as it circles the Earth is not being communicated to the sample.  Other possibilities for sample 10 are being considered as well by our U. Penn scientists (Yodh and Yunker).  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):     “The 1st sampling for Nespoli was started on 1/5 and completed on 1/6.  The data has been downlinked for analysis.  Your next BioRhythms activity will be your FD75 (+/-7 days) session.”  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for   Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   CB cleanup in the Saibo Rack was performed on 12/22.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:      No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):      “Scott, excellent job on Tuesday's run.  Right off the bat we noticed a strange interaction with a fluid film on the container wall.  We think this fluid film was thicker than normal in two areas, near the top of the vane and near the fluid at the container base, and caused some of the perforations to be filled along the vane's smooth edge (i.e. after you had just cleared them before starting the run!).  The filled perforations resulted in the unusual fluid shapes that you noticed and commented on.  Regardless of this anomaly, we were still able to find the last remaining critical vane angles!  Additionally, those filled perforations were actually a boon; giving us some insight into the critical vane angles for upcoming tests, where we will have you purposely fill ALL the perforations before starting the run.  Keep up the great work, and thanks again for all the excellent pictures and descriptions.”  CFS-A (Fungi-A):   Awaiting ULF5 launch.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    On 1/12, two test points were successfully performed with four counting towards the science matrix (two test points were skipped).  The test points were performed with methanol fuel at a 1 atm chamber environment of 14% O2, 35% CO2, and 51% N2.  Based on previous runs we anticipated that we are very close to the Limiting Oxygen Index at 1 atm with these ambient diluents.  Neither of the test points used the support fiber.•  Test #1 - Droplet diameter of 3 mm. The free deployment was very good.  As expected, the 3 mm droplet burned briefly and radiatively extinguished. Flame oscillations were observed prior to extinction.•  Test #2 - Droplet diameter of 2 mm.  The deployment was reasonably good with very small drift velocity.  The flame once again extinguished, more like radiative than like diffusive extinction. Flame oscillations were once again present prior to extinction.  This behavior, though somewhat unusual, may be due to the fact that we are at the Limiting Oxygen Index where both the diffusive extinction and the radiative extinction branches meet. Radiative Extinction = Flame extinction caused by excessive radiative energy loss from the flame; occurs at relatively larger droplet and flame sizes.  Diffusive Extinction = Flame extinction caused by an insufficient time for fuel and oxygen to react; occurs at relatively smaller droplet and flame sizes.  Limiting Oxygen Index = Minimum oxygen concentration where a steady flame can exist. The two branches of extinction (radiative and diffusive) meet at the Limiting Oxygen Index.   Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    No report.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.  DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    Since the beginning of the DSI-HD sequence, we have performed 6 solidifications at different speeds (1, 4 and 8 micron) with success.  This week we had a communication anomaly with the ACB board that required a DECLIC reboot; this was no impact to science.  DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.   DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS, ESA):    Acquiring science data with DOSTEL-2 detector. Monthly data downlink performed on 1/11.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Hobbies):      No report.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Kids in Space):   No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO GREENHOUSE (ESA):   No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    No report. . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.  EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.  EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    Space Bottle has been wrapped with Kapton tape and moved to the airlock.  This bottle will be exposed in space by ULF-5 shuttle EVA.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.  EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    “Paolo, many thanks for executing the first two scripts during the weekend.  The downlink of the records will be planned soon and the ground team is eagerly waiting for the result.“  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET-2 (JAXA):   No report.   FERULATE (JAXA):    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):     No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    “The 1st sampling session for Coleman and Nespoli has been completed on 1/14.  Your next session will take place during Inc 27.”  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):     RAIDS experienced a scan platform power anomaly on 12/29.  The initial troubleshooting found that the problem is confined to the platform electronics and platform motor drive but the spectrometer grating drive motors are still functional.  The platform is currently immobilized and pointing onto the Earth disk.  The spectrometers can be used to collect secondary science data.  The primary science objective for temperatures from 95-165 km has been satisfied by data already collected during the first year of RAIDS operation.  HICO has taken 2,398 images to date.  The most recent HICO images taken include images of the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay, Sabina Point near Brisbane in Australia (NE coast, where the floods have occurred), the coast of Chile near Concepcion, and the area around Port-au-Prince, Haiti.  HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):    No report.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     “The ICV team would like to thank you for all your hard work to ensure a successful FD14 session.  We appreciate all of the crew notes, as they are very useful in helping the experiment team understand the current on-orbit environment and aid us in planning your future sessions.  We are looking forward to next week’s FD30 activities. Talk to you soon!”  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni Exp (JAXA):    24th run was completed on 12/22.  Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    “Cassette Exchange is on-going and will be completed on 1/19.  The 1st UVP run will be performed on 1/20.  During the Core removal activity on 1/10, the crew found one of four fasteners on the MI handle was missing.  On 1/12, the handle was repaired using a spare fastener. Thank you, Scott, for this additional work.”   Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Currently acquiring nominal science data.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    No report.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-2 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally.  PEC B was powered on January 3 after being off since Day 350 due to thermal exceedances during the high beta period.   MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.  MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    Solidification Quenching Furnace (SQF) commissioning successfully completed on 1/11, everything is ready for processing the MICAST#7 sample next week.”  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 3 (JAXA):    No report.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    “Paolo, thank you for the extra effort to successfully complete your FD30 session collection.  Your next session will be around FD 60.  Cady, glad you could complete the blood draw and start the urine collection yesterday; the urine closeout on Saturday morning will complete your FD30 session.  Your next session will be around FD 60.”  PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report.  PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:     No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA):    No report.  RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Scott, Paolo and Cady: thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test!”  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report.  SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    No report.  SMILES (JAXA):   Recooling mode #12.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   Out of Sun observation window.  The SolACES science team reported a decrease in the efficiency of the spectrometers and are investigating the cause of the problem.  Currently it is assumed that in between the Sun observation windows, when the instrument is powered off and heated by an external heater to keep the temperature above its switch on temperature, the electronics and optical components are cooled down.  After the power on at the beginning of the next Sun observation window the electronics heats up and emits hydrocarbons which partially cover the still cold optical surfaces which could explain the observed efficiency decrease.  The science team requested to keep SolACES powered on until the end of the next Sun observation window - expected 2/10 - to keep a stable temperature.  During and after this period, the SolACES team will further investigate the data.  The request of the SolACES team to keep the instrument powered is already in place.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.  Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report.  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):     No report.  SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.   VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring nominal science data.  On 1/9 the used S-band antenna was swapped from S1 to S2, leading to a better performance of the receiver (known behavior).  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    No report.  VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    Through 1/11, the ground received 9,230 of ISS CEO frames for review and cataloging.  “Since last week's report, we have received no new frames of our targets with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists. We have been advised by Payloads Management of your question regarding the distribution and use of your photos of our targets that you have acquired at times other than those on our target list.  We look at all the imagery.  First we go to the times we request and catalogue those (high priority) then go to the additional sessions of those areas to catalogue (second priority).  Items in this second category (number in the thousands) are reviewed and catalogued as time permits, and this may delay use of this photography.  If we see sites which we know are of interest to a scientist or organization we will send them an e-mail and call their attention to the imagery.  For instance, the city light imagery is being viewed by people all over the world with excitement.  We also send specific frame numbers to those who may be potentially interested. Specifically, we did send your Korean city light views to several folks.  When we select targets, the orbit pass times that we provide are what we consider to be optimal viewing for many of them, and therefore any other time that day is less likely to meet our requirements for illumination, weather, and look angle.  Views you may be able to acquire at other times, especially on different days may be much better than we anticipated, but we need to know about them in order to up their review and cataloging priority.  Your wonderful view of the Montreal Metropolitan Area at Night was published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  You continue to awe everyone with these much-less familiar views our cities.  Thanks for all of them.  CEO targets uploaded today were Christchurch, South Island, New Zealand (at this time and for about 90 seconds, the crew was to begin looking left of track for the nighttime lights of the northern part of South Island, New Zealand.  Christchurch should have been the brightest feature on the east coast), Aurora Australis, Indian-Pacific Ocean (at this time and for about the next ten minutes looking obliquely right of track towards a region with expected high potential for auroral displays), and Johannesburg, South Africa Region (at this time and for about 90 seconds, the crew was to begin looking slightly left of track for the nighttime lights of northeastern South Africa.  The Johannesburg region appears as a roughly bean-shaped feature in night lights with Pretoria as a separate cluster to the north).  