
SpaceX -21 Undock and Return: SpaceX-21 undocked from the ISS today after a 1 day delay due to bad weather and is scheduled to splash down off the coast of Tampa, Florida tomorrow at 7:27 CT. This concludes a 36-day mission for Cargo Dragon aboard the ISS.
Payloads
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Alt remove:  The crew removed a DC-DC voltage converter from the SAIBO rack power distribution box.  This was done in support of the on-going configuration change from “M” to “B”, which is needed to support later science.  The CBEF is a JAXA subrack facility and includes an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench.
Food Physiology and Standard Measures:  The crew performed a series of ambient blood collections in support of the SM and Food Physiology investigations.  Ambient blood samples allow ground teams to perform different analyses when compared to frozen blood samples.  The Food Physiology experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators.  The goal of the Standard Measures study is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.
Rodent Research checks:  The crew completed the health checks on the mice returning on SpX-21.  Effects of Microgravity on Ocular Vascular Hydrodynamics, or Rodent Research-23 (RR-23), studies function of arteries, veins, and lymphatic structures in the eye and changes in the retina before and after spaceflight. The aim is to clarify whether these vascular changes impair visual function. At least 40 percent of astronauts experience vision impairment known as Spaceflight-Associated Neuro-ocular Syndrome (SANS) on long-duration spaceflights, which could adversely affect mission success.
Systems
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain: The crew set up the recycle tank to drain to a ЕДВ-У. Following the setup the ground performed the tank drain using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, and repositioned the fill/drain valve to fill.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

FSL file uplink and transfer
Cargo Dragon Configuration for Departure
Primary Power System (PPS) Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ) FDIR Configuration for Cargo Dragon Departure
Dragon Vestibule Depressurization
EDV Fill from Toilet Support

