01-17-2009
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – rest day for CDR Fincke, FE-1 Lonchakov & FE-2 Magnus.  Sandra Magnus started on the first day of her third (FD60) NUTRITION w/Repository session of collecting blood and urine samples, after last night's start of her 8-hr fast for today's blood sampling (not done last week).    [After performing phlebotomy with the help of CDR Fincke, i.e., drawing blood samples (from an arm vein), Sandra's samples were first allowed to coagulate in the Repository for 20-30 minutes, then spun in the HRF RC (Human Research Facility/Refrigerated Centrifuge) and finally placed in MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  The RC was later powered off after a temperature reset to limit wear on the compressor, and cleaned.  No thruster activity was allowed during the blood drawing. Urine collection will continue for a full 24 hours; an endpoint time will be placed in tomorrow's daily summary for your convenience.  The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood & urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]  Yuri Lonchakov meanwhile performed his part of the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, focusing on the RS (Russian Segment).    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  The majority of today's activities by Fincke & Magnus were taken up by sessions of the discretionary VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) program which had to be aborted on 1/10 due to DMS (Data Management System) and power issues in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), rendering the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) inactive.  Mike started another extensive run with the SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment) science program.  For this, he –  Activated the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) from the A31p laptop,  Powered on the SHERE hardware,  Accessed the CGBA (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus) to install the SHERE FM (Fluid Module) #45;  Supported the first SHERE experiment trial run;  Transferred the module with the fluid sample,  Installed FM #47 for the second experiment run (Test Point 34);  Transferred the module with the fluid sample,  Installed FM #49 for the third experiment run (TP 35);  Transferred the module with the fluid sample,  Installed FM #54 for the fourth experiment run (TP 36);  Removed the FM from the CGBA, followed by SHERE data transfer;  Turned off the SHERE/CGBA equipment;  Transferred the data files to the MSG laptop for subsequent downlink, and  Powered down the MSG.   [Background:  Rheology is the study of the deformation and flow of matter under the influence of an applied stress (“preshearing” = rotation) which might be, for example, a shear stress or extensional stress.  In practice, rheology is principally concerned with extending the "classical" disciplines of elasticity and (Newtonian) fluid mechanics to materials whose mechanical behavior cannot be described with the classical theories.  SHERE is designed to study the effect of preshear (rotation) on the transient evolution of the microstructure and viscoelastic tensile stresses for solutions with long chains of monodisperse dilute polymer molecules in the MSG.  Collectively referred to as “Boger fluids,” these polymer solutions have become a popular choice for rheological studies of non-Newtonian fluids and are the non-Newtonian fluid used in this experiment.  The SHERE hardware consists of the Rheometer, Camera Arm, Interface Box, Cabling, Keyboard, Tool Box, Fluid Modules, and Stowage Tray.]   Following Mike's VolSci SHERE activities, Sandy Magnus began her own VolSci LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System) activities by temporarily relocating the MSG laptop computer (MLC) to the US Lab to support LOCAD Calibration Curve Install.  Later, the MLC was returned to its place at the MSG in the COL.    [In today's session, Sandy transferred data from sample processing runs performed over the last several months onto the MLC and then the Gram+ LAL Cartridge calibration curve data was installed onto both readers.  This is very important because investigators cannot process any samples with the new Gram+ cartridges until the calibration data is installed.  LOCAD uses small, thumb-sized “microfluidic” cartridges that are read by the experiment reader.  The cartridges contain dried extract of horseshoe crab blood cells (LAL/Limulus amebocyte lysate) and colorless dye.  LAL tests are used for the detection and quantification of bacterial endotoxins: in the presence of the bacteria, the dried extract reacts strongly to turn the dye a green color. Therefore, the more green dye, the more microorganisms there are in the original sample. Glucans are complex carbohydrate (sugar, D-glucose) macromolecules.  The handheld device tests this new analysis technology by sampling for the presence of gram negative bacteria in the sample in about 15 minutes, showing the results on a display screen.  Background:  Lab-on-a-Chip technology has an ever-expanding range of applications in the biotech industry.  Chips are available (or in development) which can also detect yeast, mold, and gram positive bacteria, identify environmental contaminants, and perform quick health diagnostics in medical clinics.  The technology has been used to swab the MERs (Mars Exploration Rovers) for planetary protection.  With expanded testing on ISS, began by Sunita Williams in March/April last year, this compact technology has broad potential applications in space exploration--from monitoring environmental conditions to monitoring crew health. The current study should prepare for long-duration exploration by demonstrating a system that enables the crew to perform biochemical analysis in space without having to return samples to Earth.]  Sandy completed the daily flushing of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser).   [The PWD had been found, via several microbial analyses by Sandy, to have bacteria growing in the ambient water.  This is still the case despite several days of flushing.  It was suspected that this is due to the water being stagnant and not used.  The crew now performs daily flushes with 100 mL of deionized water.]  Yuri continued his support of the new Russian student-developed payload OBR-1-2/”Fizika-Faza”, taking photography of the experiment.    [OBRAZOVANIE (Education) is a suite of three educational demonstrations of physics in micro-G, viz., OBR-1-1/”Fizika-LT” (Motion), OBR-1-2/”Fizika-Faza” (Phase) and OBR-1-3/”Fizika-Otolit”.]  The FE-1 completed the routine daily servicing of the SM's SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).  As part of today's SOZh maintenance, Lonchakov set up the equipment for transferring urine from four EDV-U containers to the Rodnik BV1 tank of Progress M-01M/31P for disposal. Transfer operations are scheduled tomorrow (1/18), 1/19 & 1/20.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]  As a late-added troubleshooting activity, the FE-2 worked on the CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly) to help the ground to verify that the CDRA is healthy enough to support a CSCS (Contingency Shuttle Crew Support) case for Flight 15A, should that unlikely event arise.    [The ground has observed a slow increase in the delta pressure across both beds of CDRA during the ongoing 90-day test.  Sandy's troubleshooting should help determine whether this is a sensor drift or actual dust buildup in the CDRA beds.]  Also on Sandy's schedule for today was her second standard 30-min Shuttle RPM skill training, using the D2X digital still cameras with 400 & 800mm lenses to take imagery from Windows 6 or 8 in the SM (Service Module) facing the velocity vector.  The obtained photographs were to be downlinked later for ground analysis.     [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the Shuttle (STS-119/Discovery/15A) on 2/14.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Discovery, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]  At ~9:00am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  At ~12:00pm, FE-2 Magnus had her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  The station residents conducted their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup & post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR, FE-2), TVIS treadmill (FE-1), IRED/Interim Resistive Exercise Device (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  Working off the Russian discretionary “time permitting” suggestions list, the FE-1 conducted another session for Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.   A second task item from the Russian discretionary job list for Yuri was a session of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program, using the NIKON D2X digital camera to take telephotos.  WPA Update:   Ground controllers successfully cleared a WPA (Water Processing Assembly) Process Fault message.  Troubleshooting steps were performed by the ground to verify the health of the valves and to equalize the pressure between the storage tank and the lines.  A one time change to the leak check sequence was used to provide a faster response time to protect for a quick rise in pressure in isolated lines.  These troubleshooting steps were successful in recovering the WPA.   The WPA was returned to the process state, producing 20L of water.  Engineering is assessing the leak check sequence for possible future updates.  SM NVM Failure:  TsUP/Moscow reported a failure of the SM GPS (Global Positioning System) ASN NVM1 (Navigation Computer Module 1).  The error messages were received during ground-based ASN testing.  Of four NVMs, one is operational, and the system has lost redundancy.  This hardware is used for ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) dockings and has no impact to Increment 18 Operations.  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Eighteen -- Week 12)   3-D SPACE:   Complete (1J Stage). Planned: 15A Stage.   ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  BCAT-3/4 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 3/4):   Planned/Reserve.   BIO-4:    Complete.   BIOLAB (BLB):   “Thanks for removing the (un)stuck triple containment syringe (TRICS) from BIOLAB and installing the BIOLAB AAS insert on 1/9.  Also, the smooth performance of the exchange of the isolation filters on the BIOLAB rotors and the installation of the Reference Containers on BIOLAB Rotor B is much appreciated as it will allow for further testing of the BIOLAB Facility by ground commanding in the next weeks.”   CARDIOCOG-2:  Complete.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):     In progress.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):   Reserve.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Samples returned on 1J.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2): Complete.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):   Complete.  DomGene (JAXA):   On 1/5, an ELT (Experiment Laptop - for the sample monitor during DomeGene experiment) set up was conducted.  However, the Ethernet communication between ELT and IPU failed. On 1/8, the connections were checked and the cables changed. However, communication was still missing.  Further troubleshooting will be needed next week.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):   Complete.  EDR (European Drawer Rack):   Planned.  A smoke detector test was successfully carried out on 1/7.   ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):   Planned.   ENose (Electronic Nose):  ENose is back on the EXPRESS Rack and working normally. Data files for 12/24-12/30 have been downloaded and analyzed.  The confirmational event done on 12/24 was detected and reported as “unknown,” giving confidence that ENose will report unknown species.  In addition, 800 ppm ethanol was reported present from 5:00am to 5:30am EST on 12/28.  On the same day ENose reported an unknown species from 11:54am to 12:12pm. No anomalous events were detected on other days.   EPO (Educational Payload Operations):  Reserve.  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):   Completed.  EuTEF (European Technology Exposure Facility):   During the COL DMS problem, EuTEF stayed operational, with reduced data transmission rate however.  Also the commanding of scripts for DEBIE-2 and FIPEX was not possible from 1/10 to 1/13.  However, now science acquisition has resumed for DEBIE-2, DOSTEL, EXPOSE, FIPEX, MEDET.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory):   FSL is nominal (but see next item).  GEOFLOW:    The science run#10 on 1/9 had to be aborted pre-maturely, since the thermal gradient between the two rotating, concentric spheres decreased unexpectedly.  Due to the COL DMS (Data Management System) anomaly from 1/10, the downlink of the images & data of this run had to be postponed until 1/14. The data are now under assessment to understand the GEOFLOW anomaly which occurred during this run#10.   HDTV System Test DL (JAXA):  Complete.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   43 experiments will have been conducted by the end of this week.  At this time, the MMA (Microgravity Measurement Apparatus) is not active.  MMA troubleshooting is planned in Week 12.  Ice Crystal experiment will continue regardless of the results of MMA troubleshooting.  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):     Complete.   InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    In progress.  Integrated Immune:    In progress.   KUBIK-FM1/ KUBIK-FM2 Centrifuge/Incubators:   Completed.   LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    “Sandy, thanks for choosing LOCAD for voluntary science on Saturday.  You did a great job, picked up the pipette technique quickly, and we were happy with the results.  The three sites you tested in Columbus were pretty clean, with low Sample readings of 0.48, 2.05 and 3.9 nanograms (ng) of glucan per mL (the detection range is 0 to 100 ng per mL).  The fourth site by the TeSS, where you put your feet, was also clean (Sample 1.43 ng per mL). The fifth site (CEVIS bracket) obviously had an elevated level of fungal growth!  With a Sample reading of >100 ng per mL, it was well above the highest reading found previously on ISS by Mike (25-30 ng per mL).  It is unlikely that fungal growth would have posed an immediate adverse impact, but you made a logical decision to clean it the next day.  The scenario you put in practice last weekend (test 5 areas, rapid ID of dirty site, do quick clean) is just the kind of increased crew autonomy we're trying to move towards as we approach Shuttle retirement and Constellation missions, when returning samples to Earth for ground-based analysis will become increasingly difficult.”  Marangoni Experiment for ISS in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    In progress.     Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):  Complete.  MISSE (Materials ISS Experiment): Ongoing.  Moon Photography from ISS (JAXA EPO):  Complete.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):   Complete.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):  Passive dosimeters measurements in DC1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY:   In progress.  PADLES (Passive Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    In progress.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):   Complete.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):   Ongoing.  SAMPLE:    Complete.   SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):    “Mike, it was disappointing to have our ops with you last Saturday and Tuesday cancelled due to the Columbus Module's issues, but we are looking forward to resuming this Saturday!”   SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    Continuing.   SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    Science data acquisition re-started for SOLACES and SOLSPEC instruments with the start of a new Sun visibility window since 1/14.   SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):  Complete (1J Stage).  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    Reserve.    Swab (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   Complete.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):  Planned.  ULTRASOUND:   Planned.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):   “Thanks Sandy & Mike for the smooth performance of the VLE-1 Single meal activity on 1/9.”  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    Complete/Planned (2J/A Stage).  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):  Ongoing.  CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Patagonian Glaciers, South America (weather is predicted to be mostly clear over the southernmost Patagonian glaciers.  CEO is particularly interested in images of Grey and Tyndall Glaciers, located on the eastern side of the mountains.  ISS had a near-nadir pass over both glaciers; Grey Glacier was to the left of track, and Tyndall Glacier was to the right of track.  Imagery of the terminus and valley sides of both glaciers was requested to capture the summer extent of the ice masses.)  CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov <http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/>   (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  