
Bio-monitor commissioning: The crew completed the first part of the Bio-Monitor commissioning activity.  The ground team is still assessing the data from the commissioning and reported an issue with one of the iPad application tests, but reported everything else looks good so far.  The missed iPad application test can be performed during the next commissioning activities in the upcoming weeks.  Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way.  The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, ECG (Electrocardiogram), skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc. 
Fluid Shifts: The crew performed the dilution measures portion of the ongoing Fluid Shifts investigation.  This involves the ingestion of a tracer solution and collection of blood, saliva and urine samples.  Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging with Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure). The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
Transition to (X2) R17 Software Transition: Ground teams continued with the R17 software transition by loading both of the Internal (INT) Multiplexer/Demultiplexers (MDMs) with INTSYS R10 software. The teams will continue to load X2R17 software into the Node 1 and Airlock MDMs tomorrow.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Hydraulic Components R&R: Today, the crew performed periodic maintenance in order to replace the WHC urine valve block, urine lines, urine pressure sensors along with the flush water tank empty pressure sensor.
Completed Task List Activities:

Transition SSC-6 to Wired Configuration
Cygnus Trash Gather
T2 CTB Audit Follow up
Stowage Locker Trash Fill (Active)

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


X2R17 Software Transition (Ongoing through January 17)

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Thursday, 01/17:
Payloads:

Bio-monitor power off
CIR hardware gather
Fluid Shifts
Kubik
MERLIN desiccant swap
MSPR bonding strap installation closeout

Systems

X2_R17 Software Transition

Friday, 01/17:
Payloads:

Behavioral Core Measures
CIR/ACME reconfiguration
SODI DSC flash disk exchange
Fluid Shifts
MSG/SAMS TSH troubleshooting
Slingshot preparation
Team Task Switching
Veggie light meter installation

Systems

ISS Reboost

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Actiwatch Plus Evaluation Display Check
Behavioral Core Measures Journals Entry
Bio-Monitor Historical Photo
Bio-Monitor System Commissioning Measurement
Bio-Monitor Wearables Data Transfer And Removal Alternate
Bio-Monitor Wearables Setup
CB/ISS CREW CONFERENCE
PWS2 Laptop Deinstallation from Columbus
PWS2 Laptop Installation in Columbus
PWS2 Laptop Deinstallation from Node 2
PWS2 Laptop Installation in Node 2
Record video of 1 orbit of Earth for CSA outreach
Record video for CSA about physical activity in space
Fluid Shifts CCFP Baseline Setup
Fluid Shifts HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood 3-Hour Collection Subject
Fluid Shifts HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Baseline Collection Subject
Fluid Shifts HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Operator
Fluid Shifts HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
Fluid Shifts Galley Water Collection And Tracer Ingestion Operations
Fluid Shifts HRF Centrifuge Blood Collection Configuration
Fluid Shifts HRF Centrifuge Blood Collection Spin Conclude
Fluid Shifts Hardware Battery Installation
Fluid Shifts MELFI Retrieval And Insertion Operations
Fluid Shifts OCT2 Gather
Fluid Shifts Saliva 3-Hour Collection
Fluid Shifts Saliva 5-Hour Collection
Fluid Shifts Saliva Baseline Collection
Fluid Shifts Urine Collection
Fluid Shifts Urine Collection Stow
Fluid Shifts USOS Operations Historical Documentation Photography
WHC Urine Hydraulic Components R&R
Delta file prep
Install Bio-Monitor App
Program Management/ISS Crew Conference
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
SODI External Hard Disk Connect
Transition SSC6 to Wired configuration
Inspection and photography of ISS RS windows 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 26
SCENARY. Observation and photography using photo equipment
ECON-M. Observations and Photography
Nikon still camera sync with station time
Weekly monitoring of video recording equipment performance on the ISS RS
MRM1 fan screen (Group B) cleaning, cleaning behind panels 405, 406
Replacing СКПФ1, СКПФ2 Dust Collector Filters (ФГБ1ПГО_4_426_1, bag 436-3 (00071434R). Discard de-installed items. Update IMS) and cleaning MRM1 Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger (ГЖТ)
Gathering and relocation of ССВП kits to MRM1
MRM1-FGB Screw Clamp Tightening
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops
Insert-cable installation in DC1, radiogram review, equipment pre-gather.
СОЖ maintenance

 