
ISS Reboost: Today, the ISS performed a reboost using the aft 79 Progress thrusters. The purpose of this reboost is to set up the phasing conditions for the 80 Progress 34-Orbit rendezvous in February and begin to set up the phasing conditions for the 66 Soyuz landing and 67 Soyuz launch in March. The burn duration was 6 minutes 35 seconds with a Delta-V of 0.73 m/s. 
Payloads:
EasyMotion/T2: After donning the EasyMotion Suit, the crew performed a Treadmill-2 exercise science session. Following the experiment session, the crew removed the suit, transferred the session data, and charged the experiment batteries. The EasyMotion investigation uses whole body Electro-Myo-Stimulation (EMS) with a wearable body skin suit for an ISS crew member to perform pre- and postflight EMS-assisted exercises. EMS technology initiates spontaneous (involuntary) activation of global musculature (muscle, tendon, fascia) to be monitored (muscle tone/tension and stiffness) inflight using the non-invasive Myoton technology that is currently aboard the space station for the Myotones investigation.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The crew gained access to the furnace area, removed the processed sample, and inserted the next Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions (MICAST) Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) to be processed. The MICAST experiment aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys.
Microbial Tracking-3 (MT-3): Samples were gathered for the third of five consecutive days in support of the MT-3 experiment. Sample locations included various one square meter areas of Node 3, Node 2, Node 1, PMM, and the US Lab. The Quantifying Selection for Pathogenicity and Antibiotic Resistance in Bacteria and Fungi on the ISS – a Microbial Tracking Study investigation continues a series focused on ongoing monitoring of pathogenicity (ability to cause disease) and antibiotic resistance in potentially disease-causing bacteria and fungi present on the ISS. The investigation aims to identify, analyze, and characterize pathogenicity, antibiotic resistance, and genomics to augment the NASA GeneLab with the statistical confidence to characterize microbes associated with closed habitation and predict those that may pose a threat to crew health.
Mochii: The crew accessed the sample chamber and rotated the sample to the desired position. Mochii is a miniature scanning electron microscope (SEM) with spectroscopy which will be used to conduct real-time, on-site imaging and compositional measurements of particles on the ISS. Such particles can cause vehicle and equipment malfunctions and threaten crew health, but currently, samples must be returned to Earth for analysis, leaving crew and vehicle at risk. Mochii also provides a powerful new analysis platform to support novel microgravity science and engineering. 
Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station (NutrISS): The crew completed a body mass measurement questionnaire using the EveryWear application and used the NutrISS device to perform a bioelectrical impedance analysis measurement. Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. On the basis of this data, it is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss of crew members.
Ring Sheared Drop (RSD): The crew set up the Ring Sheared Drop hardware on the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) and removed the faulty spin motor for return to the ground. Repair and replacement of the spin motor will put the hardware in a good configuration to support later RSD experiments. The RSD investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid.  Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues; amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Veggie Monitoring: Photos were taken during the surface sampling activities for the Veggie facilities.  The Veggie facilities were recently used to support the APEX-07 investigation and the sampling helps characterize the microbial environment associated with the experiment.  Culture-based Environmental Monitoring of Crop-based Space Food Systems collects microbial samples from the surface of the station’s Veggie plant production system in conjunction with quarterly Environmental Health System (EHS) sample collection. Longer exploration missions require space-based systems for growth of plants, and this investigation is expected to help establish requirements to protect these systems, plants, and crew from contamination.
Systems: 
EHS Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter (TEPC) Fuse Changeout: The crew attempted to troubleshoot the failed TEPC Spectrometer by replacing the 28V fuse but were unable to recover it. Ground teams have declared the hardware as failed and plan to return it on SpX-24. TEPC is a microdosimetric instrument that measures radiation dose and dose equivalent in complex radiation fields (fields containing a mixture of particle types).
Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Gather: The crew gathered equipment for FSS operations taking place tomorrow.  The FSS is used to assist in the startup, maintenance, and repair of water lines and systems in racks on the ISS.  It can fill, drain, circulate, and purge water and air from the Internal Thermal Control Systems (ITCS), Water Recovery Management (WRM) water lines as well as itself.
EHS – Surface Sample Kit (SSK) Collection/Incubation: To characterize the types of microbial growth on Station, the crew performed surface sample collections while photographing each location.  The crew then stored the samples temporarily in preparation for cold stowage insertion.

EHS – Water Sample Analysis: The crew performed a visual analysis of Coliform Detection Bags and Microbial Capture Devices (MCDs) after 48 hours of incubation. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.

Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

ISS Reboost
Crew Dragon Endurance System Checkout
Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Four Bed CO2 Scrubber Sample Support
Payload Racks Officer (PRO) MSRR Activation Commanding

