
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (CIR/SoFIE): The crew replaced the 21% O2/79% N2 manifold bottle with a new bottle containing 85% O2/15% N2. This was performed in support of the upcoming SoFIE Growth and Extinction Limit (SoFIE-GEL) experiment. SoFIE-GEL studies burning in microgravity, measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. Results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques, improving crew safety in future space facilities.
JAXA Water Recovery System (JWRS): In support of upcoming operations, the JWRS components were assembled, and appropriate tubing and bags were checked. JWRS generates potable water from urine, with a capability of approximately 1 liter per day. In the past on manned spacecraft, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Plant Habitat-03A: The crew gained access to the plant growth chamber and performed a plant thinning, in which many of the 200 original plants were removed until 48 of the strongest remained. The plant thinning removes the smaller plants, allowing the larger, more established, plants to continue the experiment. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food and air and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Veg-05: The young plants growing in the two Veggie facilities were inspected, watered if necessary, and photographed. The experiment is growing Red Robin dwarf tomatoes for a little over 3 months and will perform multiple harvests of the fruits produced. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: In preparation for the upcoming 1A ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep EVA scheduled for January 20th, the crew prepared the equipment lock, completed Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Suit Intravehicular (IV) and Extravehicular (EV) Review, and verified correct EMU sizing. The main goal of this EVA is to route cables on two mod kits and install the 1A Mod Kit on the 1A Solar Array Wing (SAW) Mast Canister to prepare these SAWs for future IROSA installations.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Backup EDV Swap: Today, the crew changed out the backup EDV in the UTS. EDV are intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. The objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from the Toilet System and Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
Completed Task List Activities:

N/A

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

CCS S-band TLM HK1 Preempt
EMU Data Recorder Operations
EVA EMU OFV EV
MT Translation
SPDM Unstow [Active]
BioMed Data Checkout

