01-12-2009
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Underway: Week 12 of Increment 18.  Before breakfast, CDR Fincke began Part 1 (of 5) of the periodic acoustic measurement protocol by deploying crew-worn acoustic dosimeters, to be carried by all crewmembers for 24 hours (with a microphone on the shirt collar).  (Last time done: 11/3-11/4).    [Tonight, after about 15 hours of measurements, dosimeter data will be downloaded and the hardware power-cycled for another data take starting tonight after 8.5-hr. sleep.  At that point, the crew will deploy the dosimeters statically in the station for the duration of the day, record measurements tomorrow noon and stow the instruments.  Acoustic data must be taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.]   FE-1 Lonchakov conducted a familiarization tagup with ground specialists on the new Russian student-developed payload OBR-1-2/”Fizika-Faza”, then performed the experiment, taking photography.   [OBRAZOVANIE (Education) is a suite of three educational demonstrations of physics in micro-G, viz., OBR-1-1/”Fizika-LT” (Motion), OBR-1-2/”Fizika-Faza” (Phase) and OBR-1-3/”Fizika-Otolit”.]   Mike Fincke conducted “Exp-18 Week 12” sampling of potable water for chemical and microbial analysis from the SVO-ZV tap and the SRV-K Warm tap, the latter after preliminary heating of the water (three heating cycles) and flushing.     [The CDR collected two 450 mL samples (for postflight microbial analysis), one 225 mL sample (for inflight microbial analysis) and two 750 mL samples (for postflight chemical analysis) from each of three ports (SRV-K hot, SRV-K warm, SVO-ZV) for return on STS-126/ULF2.  The flush water, collected in three small waste water bags, was then reclaimed for technical use.  For the in-flight chemistry/microbiology analysis, Mike used MCDs (microbial capture devices) from the U.S. WMK (water microbiology kit) for treatment/processing after no more than 6 hours of the collection (done ~6:25am EST).  Sample analysis included subsequent processing of water samples in the MWAK (microbial water analysis kit) for inflight coliform bacteria (Escherichia coli) detection.  Results of the on-board processing will be available after a two-day incubation period, in case of the MWAK after 4-6 days of incubation.]   Continuing the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, Lonchakov used a vacuum cleaner and soft brush to clean the detachable VT7 fan screens 1, 2, and 3 of the three SOTR gas-liquid heat exchangers (GZhT4) in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok).  The FE-1 later also cleaned interior closeout panel vent screens (panels 201, 301, 401).   FE-2 Magnus conducted the periodic deployment of four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307) for two days, to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.    [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]   As is standard for new Expeditions, Lonchakov & Fincke performed 3-hr. routine ops with the Russian STTS audio (telephone/telegraph) subsystem, including inspection and health checks of all comm panels (PA) in and between the SM, FGB and DC1, VHF receiver tests, and an audit of headsets.   [The "Voskhod-M" STTS enables telephone communications between the SM, FGB, DC1 Docking Compartment and U.S. segment (USOS), and also with users on the ground over VHF channels selected by an operator at an SM comm panel, via STTS antennas on the SM's outside. There are six comm panels in the SM with pushbuttons for accessing any of three audio channels, plus an intercom channel.  Other modes of the STTS include telegraphy (teletype), EVA voice, emergency alarms, Packet/Email, and TORU docking support.]  Later, Yuri performed the periodic switchover of the Russian STTS telephone/telegraph subsystem to an alternate string, today to a backup string after its operation on the primary string.  Magnus completed the daily flushing of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser).   [The PWD had been found, via several microbial analyses by Magnus, to have bacteria growing in the ambient water.  It is suspected that this is due to the water being stagnant and not used.  The crew now performs daily flushes with 100 mL of deionized water.]   Sandy also reconfigured the HRF PC1 (Human Research Facility/Portable Computer 1) for using SUP (Standard Utility Panel) power, then took documentary photography of the PC routing to SUP.    [This will allow using SUP power so that crew can autonomously perform PC powered activities off the task list.]  In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), the FE-2 performed troubleshooting on the ELT-3 (Experiment Laptop Terminal 3).   [The problem is either the ELT or the cable between ELT and the Saibo Rack.]  Sandy also cleaned the Stbd Aft IMV (Intermodular Ventilation) fan inlet in the Node-1.  In preparation for a new run with the Russian payload TKhN-7 SVS (Self-Propagating High-Temperature Synthesis), Yuri started charging its camcorder and digital still camera gear.   [SVS uses its own camera, “Telescience” hardware from PK-3 (Plasma Crystallization) and the onboard Klest TV system for researching self-propagating high-temperature fusion of samples in space.]   The FE-1 completed the routine daily servicing of the SM's SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]  Working from his discretionary “time permitting” task list, Lonchakov performed the regular daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance task by updating/editing the IMS standard “delta file” including stowage locations for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Also on Yuri's voluntary list was the frequent status check on the Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-1 ("Plants-1") experiment, verifying proper operation of the BU Control Unit and MIS-LADA Module fans (testing their air flow by hand).    [Rasteniya-1 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-14 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]  A new voluntary job item added to Mike Fincke's “job jar” task list is the installation & checkout of the new US food warmer at the ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6) in the Lab.  At ~11:55am EST, Fincke & Magnus supported two live televised PAO interview events, one with WBGZ Radio's “The Travel Planners Show”, Alton, IL, the other with Sirius XM Radio's “The Bob Edwards Show”.  The station residents conducted their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup & post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR, FE-2), TVIS treadmill (FE-1), IRED/Interim Resistive Exercise Device (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  IWIS Thruster Test:    At 12:48pm-1:10pm EST, a test of the IWIS (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System) structural dynamics measuring suite was performed by Russian thrusters.  JPM & Lab science windows were closed during the firing.  MCA Update:   The MCA (Major Constituent Analyzer) is back to nominal operations.  OGS Update:  Output of the US OGS (Oxygen Generator System) has been raised to 40% production rate. The Russian Elektron is currently off as per plan.  RS EVA-22 Update:   The next Russian Orlan-EVA (Extravehicular Activity) originally proposed for late January/early February will not be ready before March.  No CEO (Crew Earth Observations) photo targets uplinked for today.   [ISS daylight orbit tracks are now almost entirely in the Southern Hemisphere where there are fewer CEO targets.  Fewer targets, together with variable weather conditions, typically result in sparse daily CEO target opportunities until daylight orbit tracks begin to extend back into the Northern Hemisphere.]  CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  <http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/>  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  