
Plant Habitat Gaseous Nitrogen (GN2) Hose Connection: Today the crew removed and replaced the acoustic blanket and growth chamber door before retrieving the GN2 filter and connecting it to the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack nitrogen. The other end was connected to the GN2 hose in order to perform a GN2 leak check. Plant Habitat is a fully automated facility that will be used to conduct plant bioscience research on the International Space Station (ISS). It occupies the lower half of the EXPRESS Rack and two International Subrack Interface Standard (ISIS) drawers, providing a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber. 
Circadian Rhythms:  Today a 53S crewmember instrumented themselves with Thermolab Double Sensors, mounted the Thermolab Unit to their belt, and began 36 hours of monitoring for the Circadian Rhythm investigation.  Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Wireless Sensor Network (WiseNet) Hardware Installation:  Today the crew installed the WiseNet Base Station on MagVector rack front panel, inserted the USB Boot Stick, and installed WiseNet sensors at dedicated locations inside the US Lab, Node 2, and Columbus. The goal of the WiseNet technology demonstrator is to establish the functionality of low power Radio Frequency (RF) networks within the ISS environment using low power sensor-nodes. These sensors form a wireless network on board ISS to monitor environmental factors such as temperature, pressure, and humidity.
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS): The crew took images of Southern California using the Red camera. EIISS is used to support creation of a series of videos highlighting Earth views taken from space. The videos are taken with cameras on the ISS in 6K hi-resolution and are integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment. 
Transition to (X2) R16 Software:  In order to complete the R16 software transition, ground controllers configured the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) and Thermal Control System (TCS) equipment and then updated the software on the S0, LSYS, and LA-2 Multiplexor-Demultiplexors (MDMs). After the MDM updates were completed, the ground controllers returned the ECLSS and TCS equipment to the nominal configuration. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations: The crew performed on orbit fit verification (OFV) operations to configure Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) 3003 and 3008 properly for the upcoming EVAs.  The crew also configured EVA tools for use outside the station.  Next Tuesday, two crewmembers will exit the station and perform maintenance on the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) by swapping a Latching End Effector (LEE) from the SSRMS with a spare. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Equipment Lock (E-LK) Preparation Part 1
TV Conference. Answers to questions for a documentary “Sputnik: 60 years on the road to discovery”
European Modular Cultivation System Gas Valve Open
Audit of spares kits ЗИП-5, ЗИП-6, ЗИП-3, ЗИП-1, O2 bottles (БК-3М) in ПхО and DC1
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV)
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Gathering of spacesuit replaceable elements, service and personal gear
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap
Drying Biolab Incubator Cold Spot Sponge
WISENET Big Picture Words
Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
Fill ЕДВ from Progress 437 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank 1. Progress 437 H2O Tank 1 bladder compression
Collecting SM and FGB Air Samples Using АК-1М Sampler
SM Air Sampling for FREON Using АК-1М Sampler
ИПД (Draeger Tubes) Air Sample Collection for Ammonia in SM
Charging EVA Camera D4 Battery
SM air sampling for CO using ИПД samplers
Photo TV EVA Go Pro Battery Charging
Test activation of Vozdukh Atmosphere Purification System Emergency Vacuum Valves
Plant Habitat GN2 Hose Connection
SSC-5 Logout
Checking БД-2 treadmill carriage position
WiseNet Hardware Installation in Columbus, US LAB, NODE2
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
Countermeasures System (CMS) VELO Exercise session
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan Prep
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Post Exam
MATRYOSHKA-R. Tritel Hardware Monitoring
Circadian Rhythms Instrumentation
Flight Director/ISS CREW CONFERENCE
Progress 437 H2O Tank1 Bladder Compression, Closeout Ops

Completed Task List Activities

Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) On-orbit Fitcheck Verification Measurements
Food Consolidate- Part 2
Food Consolidate- Part 3

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


X2R16 software load.
Standard commanding.

