
Extra-vehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub:  Today, the crew configured EMUs 3006 and 3008 for loop scrubbing following last week’s EVA. They initiated ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and conducted biocidal maintenance (iodination) on the suit and Airlock cooling water loops.  Samples of the coolant water will be obtained before and after the loop scrub activity to determine the effectiveness of the filtering.  A portion of the water sample was utilized for a conductivity test and the remaining water will be sent to the ground for chemical analysis.
Ultra-High Definition (UHD) Camera Test:  The crew setup, configured and performed a test with the UHD camera.  The first 4K live downlink event using the 4K Encoder is currently planned for 01- February. This equipment was delivered to the ISS on HTV-6, and allows real time streaming of 4K UHD video. 
Fluid Shifts Baseline Imaging: With assistance of an onboard operator and ground remote guidance, a 48S crewmember performed the second portion of the Return-45 day (R-45) Fluid Shifts experiment.  Ultrasound imaging was taken of arterial and venous measures of the head and neck, cardiac, ophthalmic and portal vein, and tissue thickness of lower and upper body. Additional measurements using the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), ESA’s Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Device, and Intraocular Pressure (IOP) using the tonometer were taken as well. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA- Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage. 
Water Monitoring Suite: In coordination with regular Environmental Health System (EHS) water sampling, the crew performed the Microbial Monitoring System (MMS) portion of the WMS experiment. By using the same water collected for the EHS sample, ground teams can evaluate the capabilities of the new hardware. The crew configured the hardware to sample a low and high DNA concentration sample using the Razor Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) Microbial Monitoring System. The WMS is a set of hardware that monitors microbes, silica and organic material in the water supply on the ISS. The hardware ensures crew members can test and monitor the safety of their water supplies on future space missions, especially on long-duration missions to Mars, asteroids or other destinations where Earth-based testing would be difficult or impossible. 
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Troubleshooting Tool Build: The crew constructed three tools which will be used to identify and manipulate a disengaged fastener on the CIR Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) Shroud Plate(s). One tool was constructed from Coldplate/Wireway cover Teflon sheets to identify and hook a suspected disengaged fastener on the CIR CIA Shroud Plate. Another tool was constructed from aluminum plates to be used as a guide to allow the disengaged fastener to travel over the window segment of the CIR Combustion Chamber. The last tool was constructed from Teflon and used to guide the other tools into position. The troubleshooting tasks to use these tools is schedule for Wednesday. 
H-II Transfer Vehicle 6 (HTV) Cargo Operations:  Yesterday the crew completed 5 hours and 30 minutes of loading trash onto the HTV vehicle.  Ground specialist estimate the crew will need another 3 hours and 30 minutes of cargo operations to complete the vehicle loading.  HTV is scheduled to unberth from the ISS on Friday 27-January-2017.    
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

MO-8. Preparation
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
MO-8 equipment stowage
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Deactivation
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance
Environmental Health System (EHS) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collect
PILOT-T. Preparation for the Experiment
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
Fluid Shifts CDL Holter Arterial BP Hardware Don – Subject
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Baseline Scan – Subject
PILOT-T. Experiment Operations
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Baseline Scan – Operator
Microbial Monitoring System Hardware Gather
Microbial Monitoring System MWA Preperation
Fluid Shifts USOS Operations Historical Documentation Photography
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Post Scrub Cooling Loop Water (H2O) Sample
Fluid Shifts OCT Baseline Setup
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance
Fluid Shifts CCFP Baseline Test – Subject
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Environmental Health System (EHS) Coliform Water Processing
Fluid Shifts OCT Baseline Exam
Fluid Shifts DPOAE Baseline Test
Transfer of Cargo for Removal to Progress No. 433 (DC1). IMS Update
Microbial Monitoring System Sample Setup
Hardware Gather and Review of the Procedure for [CKB1] Compressor R&R
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Setup
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Exam – Operator
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Exam – Subject
Fluid Shifts CDL Holter Arterial BP Hardware Doff – Subject
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Stow
Fluid Shifts CCFP Baseline Stow
Preparation for Operations with FIT Analyzer and Procedure Review Work
Fluid Shifts OCT Baseline Stow
Tightening of Quick Disconnect Screw Clamps on DC1-Progress No. 433 Interface
Microbial Monitoring System Sample
Fluid Shifts Hardware USOS Gather
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfiguration
Initiate water transfer from CWC-I to ЕДВ
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Video Recording for “Reading Eugene Onegin” Project
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Conductivity Test
Microbial Monitoring System Data Transfer
Terminate water transfer from CWC-I to ЕДВ
Fluid Shifts Hardware RSOS Transfer
Aquapad Double Water Sampling
Photo TV 4K Lab Configuration
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Service Module Setup
CONTENT. Experiment Operations
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Station Support Computer (SSC) 17 Reload Preparation
Photo TV 4K Downlink Setup
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
FLUID SHIFTS. Connection of Ultrasound Hardware to [РБС] Power Outlet
Phtoto/TV Video Test – Audio
In Flight Maintenance Combustion Integrated Rack Tool Build
WIRELESS LEAK DETECTOR ULTRASONIC SENSOR
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill Part 3
Life on ISS Photo and Video
Photo/TV 4K Downlink Deactivation
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Stow Syringes used in H2O Conductivity Test

Completed Task List Items

MDM On-Orbit Tester Hardware Gather
HTV-6 cargo operations
IP phone troubleshooting
WHC KTO Replace
Convenience Med Stow

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

EMU Scrub Monitoring
SM Refueling Operations

