
Japanese-Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-6 (J-SSOD-6) Deployment: Today four deployers, holding six satellites, were grappled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) and deployed.  J-SSOD #6 is the first enhanced J-SSOD, which is able to launch twice the amount of satellites when compared to previous deployers. Photos of each satellite deployment were taken by the crew from the Cupola. J-SSOD #6 jettisoned the following experiments in the sequence below:
1st Deployment

FREEDOM (1U): Demonstrate a de-orbit devices using a thin-film unfolding mechanism in space
WASEDA-SAT3 (1U): Image projection on the surface of a drag chute with a micro-projector
ITF-2 (1U): Builds a network for people using satellite data

2nd Deployment

EGG (3U): Demonstration to unfold a toroidal infallible structure for aeroshells

3rd Deployment

AOBA-Velox-III (2U): A demonstration of Pulsed Plasma Thruster

4th Deployment

TuPOD (3U): Deployment of two TubeSat daughter satellites

The J-SSOD facility provides a reliable, safe and economically viable means of deploying research small satellites into Earth orbit. Atmospheric and surface monitoring, radio communications testing, and small object and sample return to the ground for testing and analysis are all potential candidates for this facility. 
Fluid Shifts – Dilution Measures: The crew initiated the Return – 45 (R45) Fluid Shifts Dilution Measures activities for the last 48S subject.  The subject collected saliva, blood and urine and inserted them into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) prior to ingesting a Sodium Bromide (NaBr) tracer. Throughout the day, the crew performed more urine, blood, and saliva collections, inserting those samples into MELFI as well. The crew also configured for tomorrow’s Baseline Imaging in the USOS.  Fluid Shifts is divided into three experiment portions – Dilution Measures, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging with Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure).  The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the head ward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage. 
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Zero Robotics Dry Run: The crew set up the SPHERES hardware and executed a dry run for the Zero Robotics competition scheduled for January 27, 2017. The SPHERES Zero Robotics investigation establishes an opportunity for high school students to design research for the ISS. As part of a competition, students write algorithms for the SPHERES satellites to accomplish tasks relevant to future space missions. The algorithms are tested by the SPHERES team and the best designs are selected for the competition to operate the SPHERES satellites on board the ISS.
Capillary Flow Experiment-2 (CFE-2): The crew prepared a CFE-2 Vane Gap vessel for testing by partially
disassembling the vessel, creating special conditions on the vane, and re-assembling the vessel using the Maintenance Work Area (MWA). Because liquids behave differently in space than they do on Earth, containers that can process, hold or transport them must be designed to work in microgravity. The CFE-2 furthers research into the control of liquid behavior aboard spacecraft through wetting and container geometry. Vane Gap experiments identify the critical geometric wetting conditions of a vane structure that does not quite meet the container wall – a construct used in various fluid systems aboard spacecraft such as fuel tanks, thermal systems and water processors for life support. The results of these tests may be used to improve the capability to quickly and accurately predict how related processes such as passive separation of gases from liquids in the absence of gravity occur.
Group Combustion: The crew conducted leak checks on JAXA’s Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) containing the Group Combustion experiment. The crew checked the Gaseous Nitrogen (GN2) supply line and the air supply line of the Combustion Chamber for leaks. The Group Combustion investigation tests a theory that fuel sprays change from partial to group combustion as flames spread across a cloud of droplets. In the MSPR in the Kibo module, droplets of decane, a component of gasoline or kerosene, are arranged randomly on thin-fiber lattice points, and the flame and droplet positions and temperature distribution are measured as the flame spreads. Microgravity blocks convection, which on Earth would quickly disperse the droplets and combustion products before such measurements could be made.
Galley Rack Outfitting:  Today, the crew continued with Galley Rack Outfitting. They rotated the NOD1P4 rack and installed a Galley Power Supply, Galley Control Panel and will route the Galley Food Warmer power supply.
H-II Transfer Vehicle 6 (HTV) Cargo Operations:  Over the weekend the crew completed 5 hours and 30 minutes of loading trash onto the HTV vehicle.  Ground specialist estimate the crew will need another 4 hours and 30 minutes of cargo operations to complete the vehicle loading.  HTV is scheduled to unberth from the ISS on Friday 27-January-2017.   
Treadmill 2 System (T2) Status: Over the weekend ground specialists were able to uplink and apply the GUI Service Pack successfully, and have since resync-ed the CLU with the GUI.  Earlier today the crew disconnected the breakout cable, returned T2 to its nominal configuration and completed a nominal T2 exercise session.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Friday evening, at the completion of EVA 39, the Robotics Ground Controllers mated the Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload and ORU Accommodation (POA) umbilicals to the HTV6 Exposed Pallet (EP) and applied payload power to it.  They also performed the uncaging of the Spare Camera, Light, and PTU Assembly (CLPA) installed during the EVA on the Mobile Transporter Relay Assembly (MTRA) wedge and performed successful checkouts on the Spare CLPA camera unit. Saturday, the Robotics Ground Controllers stowed three Nickel-Hydrogen (NiH2) batteries, 2 batteries were from SPDM and 1 from the Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP), on the HTV6 EP. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Fluid Shifts Saliva Baseline Collection
Fluid Shifts Urine Collection
Fluid Shifts MELFI Insertion Operations
Fluid Shifts USOS Operations Historical Documentation Photography
Fluid Shifts Galley Water Collection Tracer Ingestion Operations
Fluid Shifts Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
Fluid Shifts Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
Fluid Shifts MELFI Insertion
Medical Laptop Relocation
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) Leak Check 1 for GN2 supply line
ВКС Laptops Antivirus software refresh
Periodic Fitness Evaluation (Treadmill Test)
JEMRMS Small Satellite Deployment Observation
Fluid Shifts CCFP Baseline Setup
HRF Hardware Stow
Visual and functional inspections of the CSA-CP Probes on ISS.
Fluid Shifts Blood 3-Hour Collection
Fluid Shifts Saliva 3-Hour Collection
Capillary Flow Experiments Vane Gap Procedure Review
Fluid Shifts MELFI Retrieve Insertion Operations
JEMRMS Small Satellite Deployment Observation
Capillary Flow Experiment MWA Preparation
ТГК 64P stowage operations with the use of IMS (СИ)
Capillary Flow Experiments Vane Gap Disassembly and Perforations Preparation
Fluid Shifts Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
Fluid Shifts MELFI Retrieve Insertion Operations
МОТОКАРД. Assist
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Fluid Shifts Saliva 5-Hour Collection
Fluid Shifts Blood Collection Conclude Stow
Fluid Shifts Urine Collection End
Fluid Shifts MELFI Insertion Operations
Fluid Shifts Urine Collection Stow
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) Leak Check 2 for GN2 supply line
SPHERES Crew Conference
Capillary Flow Experiments Hardware Setup
SPHERES Zero Robotics Setup
Biomolecule Sequencer Hardware Stow
Fluid Shifts Hardware Battery Installation
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tools Stow
Capillary Flow Experiments Vane Gap 2 Test Operations
SPHERES Zero Robotics Dry Run
Galley Rack Internal Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Installation
Capillary Flow Experiments Hardware Teardown
КОНТЕНТ. Experiment operations
Periodic Fitness Evaluation (Treadmill Test)
SPHERES Zero Robotics Shutdown
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Activation
Exercise data D/L

Completed Task List Items

Treadmill 2 System (T2) Monthly Inspection [Completed Saturday]
Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection [Completed Saturday]
Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Control Panel Time Synch [Completed Saturday]
Dose Tracker iPad Configuration [Completed Saturday]
Columbus CWSA2 Remove and Replace On Board Training [Completed Sunday]
Columbus Module Light Unit 8 Baseplate Ballast Assembly Remove and Replace. [Completed Sunday]
ESA Active Dosimeter Area Monitoring Mobile Unit Stow [Completed Sunday]
ESA PAO Recorded Message “EURO-Space SB 2017” [Completed Sunday]
ESA PAO Recorded Message “Judo Tournois de Paris” [Completed Sunday]
EVA Tool Stow [Completed Sunday]
ISS HAM Radio Recording of Display [Completed Sunday]
Station Support Computer (SSC) 17 Primary Hard Drive Swap [Completed Sunday]
HTV6 Transfer Cargo Operations [Performed Sunday]
New Food Eval [Completed Monday]
COL1O2 Audit and Hardware Relocate [Completed Monday]

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

J-SSOD Deploy
Lab MCA Zero Calibration
FPMU Deact

