01-16-2010January 16, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/16/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – off-duty day.  FE-1 Suraev began the day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by Maxim on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  In the Pirs DC1 (Docking Compartment), Suraev terminated the discharge of Orlan 825M3 battery pack 1 and started the process on Pack 2, ending it before sleep time.  The five station residents performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  As part of the house cleaning, Suraev & Kotov conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and also Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).  Additionally, Maxim checked the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter units of the SM’s and FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.  FE-4 Kotov conducted the periodic transfer of U.S. condensate water from CWC (Collapsible Water Container, #1030) to the RS (Russian Segment) for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen & (waste) hydrogen, filling the designated KOV EDV container.  Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.]  FE-5 Noguchi completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC  (Station Support Computer) laptops.  Maxim continued the extended leak integrity checking of the spare BZh Liquid Unit (#056) for the Elektron O2 generator, recharged on 12/15 with nitrogen (N2) to 1 atm (1 kg/cm2), by conducting the usual pressure check and repressing it to verify the unit’s hermeticity.    [Objective of the monthly checkout of the spare BZh, which has been in stowage since March 2007, is to check for leakage and good water passage through the feed line inside of the BZh (from ZL1 connector to the buffer tank) and to check the response of the Electronics Unit’s micro switches (signaling “Buffer Tank is Empty” & “Buffer Tank is Full”.  During Elektron operation, the inert gas locked up in the BZh has the purpose to prevent dangerous O2/H2 mixing.  A leaking BZh cannot be used.]  The FE-1 also performed the periodic (monthly) functional closure test of the Vozdukh CO2 (carbon dioxide) removal system’s spare AVK emergency vacuum valves, in the spare parts kit.    [The AVKs are crucial because they close the Vozdukh's vacuum access lines in the event of a malfunction in the regular vacuum valves (BVK) or a depressurization in the Vozdukh valve panel (BOA).  Access to vacuum is required to vent CO2 during the regeneration of the absorbent cartridges (PP).]  Jeff Williams, TJ Creamer & Soichi Noguchi filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  At ~ 5:40am, Suraev & Kotov engaged in a PAO phone interview via S-band with Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos Magazine, an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.    [“Your impressions and assessment of EVA activities.-  Oleg, did the station change any?  Was there anything new?  Do you enjoy your internet blog?-  What have you been doing lately and what are your short-term plans?-  Please, tell about your big team, some interesting recent events.”]  At ~9:10am, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  At 9:40am-9:55am and 11:15am-11:30am, Maxim & Oleg conducted two ham/amateur radio sessions with students, alumni and faculty of Kursk State Technical University.  At ~10:40am, the crew was scheduled for the (normally weekly) teleconference with ISS Program Management at JSC/Houston via Ku-band/video & S-band/audio.  At ~3:05pm, Williams will have his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  As another VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) program, TJ Creamer worked on the FIR Fluids (Integrated Rack).    [TC first set up the US camcorder for videoing his activities, then opened the lower & upper doors, pulled out the FIR Optics Bench and configured it by installing the LMM (Light Microscopy Module) WIP hose for ground operation.  After closing up the FIR and activating two switches, Creamer notified POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center) that the rack was prepared for commanding via RPC (Remote Power Controller).  The activity concluded by the installation of the MRB (Microgravity Rack Barrier) on the front of the FIR.]  For his own VolSci program for JAXA, Soichi Noguchi prepared the G1 camcorder, then tookthe audience on an HD video tour around the ISS/Kibo complex, with his narration.  Kotov performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.  Jeff donned the Glenn treadmill harness with installed transducer instrumentation (fifth time for him), then activated the harness for his exercise run on the T2/COLBERT treadmill.     [Afterwards, the CDR downloaded the harness data and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).]  CDR, FE-1, FE-4 & FE-5 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Maxim at ~5:00am, Oleg at ~7:00am, Soichi at ~10:10am, Jeff at ~1:00pm EST.  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-4).  Later, Jeff transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Two -- Week 7)  3-D SPACE:    On 01/13, TJ Creamer successfully performed his first session.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    No report.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:   No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    “Thank you, TJ  to have worked as hard as possible on this repair activity for BIOLAB. Engineering teams are defining the recovery actions. Please expect some feedback soon!”  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   “First session for Soichi was performed successfully.”  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:   “Jeff: thanks for completing your pill ingestion. Your next session is scheduled for 1/17.  Soichi: thanks for completing your pill ingestion and your first Urine Collection session!  Your next pill ingestion session is scheduled for 1/17.”  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    CBEF fan reconfiguration preparation was performed 01/14.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    Samples will return on the next shuttle.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.  DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.    DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    Acquiring data. Last ground-commanded downlink performed on 01/07.  After this downlink however, ground teams discovered that the logs files were not covering a period of 2 weeks around end of December. Ground teams are looking into that issue.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    The rack is continuously active in support of the Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility (PCDF) experiment. EDR is providing power/data and temperature control (via cooling loop) to PCDF.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):     Several maintenance activities were successfully carried out on 12/29.  The activities completed include the replacement of the EMCS door screw, EMCS Water Reservoirs, Rotor-Based Life Support System (RBLSS) Modules and RBLSS Filters elements.  Therefore, the only remaining tasks to be performed are the installation of a water pump tube and the installation of a software upgrade prior to the arrival of TROPI-2!  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Rack activated on 1/7 to support PASSAGES and monthly DOSIS data downlink.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):    “Jeff - Good job with the EPO-Speed/Work/Energy-Demo! Thanks for adding your own words and personal views during the demo.  We always encourage this.  We look forward to completing more activities this Increment.”  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Watering.    EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):  “No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Poem (JAXA):   “Soichi, thank you for delivering a wonderful poem!”  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   Tapes were returned on ULF3.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory):   On-Going MVIS commissioning this week.  All progressing nominally with the exception of some corrupted downlinked files on 01/14.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):   No report.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    “Jeff, the ICV PIs have performed reviews of Cardiopres data from your FD15 and 30 Ambulatory Monitoring sessions.  This preliminary review indicates that the data are of sufficient duration and quality and will be very useful in determining cardiac work during early adaptation on orbit.  We hope to have more words for you next week regarding the FD75 data.”  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    Postponed. Troubleshooting planning is now in progress.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Continuing observation operation.  Marangoni UVP:   Leak repair from 01/11-01/15.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    A check for the rest of the Elmer's Glue was completed.  The glue will be used for Marangoni troubleshooting (of the silicone oil leakage on the cooling disk) to be performed soon.   MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE (Materials ISS Experiment):  Ongoing.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.  MSL (Materials Science Laboratory):    Processed SCAs from CETSOL and MICAST were returned on ULF3.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    “TJ: Thank you for helping us recover SLAMMD functionality.  The next SLAMMD session for you and Jeff will be in February.”  PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.  RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “Jeff and Soichi, thank you for continuing to participate in Reaction Self Test!  T.J., thank you for remembering the Reaction Self Test constraint of two sessions the same day and going out of your way to complete those. We appreciate it.”  SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    “SAIBO fire port seal was completed, Thank you.”   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuing observation operations.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):    “TJ: Thank you for helping us recover SLAMMD functionality.  The next SLAMMD session for you and Jeff will be in February.”  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Jeff and TJ:  We are currently targeting next week for another week of sleep logging.”  SMILES (JAXA):    Continuing observations.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in. Liquids, ESA):    The Cell Array #2 has a binary mixture of 50% water - 50% Isopropanol leading to positive Soret coefficient (when the lighter component is driven towards the higher temperature region of the experimental cell). Upon the preliminary analysis of the results of Cell Array#2 runs, the science team requests some specific runs in order to be able to properly interpret the fluid behavior of the Cell Array#2 and look more in detail to the role of the applied temperature gradient in the cell.  IVIDIL remaining runs are being carried out from 01/11 until the beginning of next week on a 24/7 basis. If all goes nominal, the completion of the on-going science script will conclude the IVIDIL experiment. Preliminary assessment of science images on-going.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   Current Sun observation window #24 started on 01/06.  Another AIB failure was encountered on 01/10, but the platform was again quickly recovered (1 orbit lost).  Expected end of current Sun observation window is planned on 01/17.- SOLSPEC and SOLACES are currently acquiring science data.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.  SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):     No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    VLE-1 completed.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):    Through 1/11, the ground has received a total of 16,760 frames of ISS-22 CEO imagery for review and cataloguing.   “We are pleased to report your acquisition of imagery for the following CEO Target Requests:  Windhoek, Namibia – excellent detailed coverage in overlapping frames – only a context view is now required; Maputo, Mozambique – excellent, complete coverage – all requirements for this target have been met; Mogadishu, Somalia – excellent imagery acquired – requirements met; and Tropical Cyclone Edzani, Indian Ocean – excellent context views as well as details of the inner eye.  This past weekend, your beautifully detailed view of the Giens Peninsula in southern France was published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website.  Your image nicely illustrates how wave action can form tombolos (ridges of sand) that connect an island to the mainland creating a special type of peninsula.  Nice shot!”  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Ganges River Delta (weather was predicted to be clear over the Ganges Delta at the time of this overpass, however there might have been some haze present.  Looking slightly to the right of track for the multitude of river channels forming the Mouths of the Ganges.  Vegetation in the delta area includes mangrove forest which tends to appear darker than the upland vegetation.  Overlapping mapping frames of the current channels and shorelines of the delta were requested), Simon's Bay, Cape Point, S. Africa (HMS Beagle Site.  Cape Point forms the western side of False Bay at the southwestern tip of Africa.  Simon's Bay is a smaller embayment within False Bay.  Charles Darwin visited the area in 1836. Imagery of Cape Point and the western shoreline of False Bay were requested.  Keeping tracking northwards from the Bay to the following target of Cape Town), Cape Town, South Africa (looking slightly to the left of track for this developing South African city.  Overlapping mapping frames, taken along track, were requested to obtain a rural-urban-rural transect across the urban area), South Tibesti Megafans, Chad (weather was predicted to be clear over these megafans, which extend southward from the Tibesti Mtns. into central Chad.  ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over the Tijitinga River fan.  Looking for discontinuous and overlapping dry stream channels as indicators of the megafan surface.  Overlapping nadir-viewing mapping frames, taken along track, were requested), Conakry, Guinea (ISS had a nadir-viewing overpass of this capital city.  Conakry is the largest city in Guinea and its major shipping port.  The city is built on a narrow spit of land extending into the Atlantic Ocean.  Overlapping nadir-viewing mapping frames, taken along track, of the urban area were requested), and Megafan SW Algeria (these megafans are located to the south-southeast of the Erg Chech dunefield. Looking slightly to the right of track for sinuous, overlapping dry stream channels as indicators of the megafan surface.  Megafans observed on Earth may be analogs for similar features observed on Mars.  Overlapping mapping frames, taken along track, were requested).  