
Payloads:
Human Research Facility (HRF) Veggie: Profile of Mood States (POMS) questionnaires were completed by the crew. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veggie) investigation is a phased research project that includes Veg-04A, Veg-04B, Veg-05, and HRF Veg including HRF Veggie POMS questionnaires. This work addresses the need for a system to produce healthy, fresh food on future long-duration exploration missions to supplement the standard pre-packaged astronaut diet. HRF Veggie uses psychological surveys and crew evaluations of the flavor and appeal of plants grown for other investigations on the ISS to focus on the overall behavioral health benefits to crew members of having various plants and fresh food in space.
JAXA Try Zero-G for Asia: The crew reviewed the procedures and prepared the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) area for the experiment. JAXA hosts several Educational Payload Operation (EPO) investigations designed to attract public attention for Japanese manned spaceflight activities. The Try Zero-G for Asia is an EPO investigation consisting of several activities in KIBO, the Japanese experiment module on the ISS. Crew members conduct several small experiments submitted by students in countries in the Asia-Pacific region to demonstrate the effects of microgravity.
Pore Formation and Mobility Investigation-Asymmetric Sawtooth and Cavity-Enhanced Nucleation-Driven Transport (PFMI-ASCENT): A damaged thermocouple was repaired on a science ampoule, and the ampoule was installed into PFMI-ASCENT for a subsequent science run. PFMI-ASCENT demonstrates a passive cooling system for electronic devices in microgravity using a microstructured surface. When fluids boil over flat heated surfaces in microgravity, vapor bubbles grow larger in size, causing poor heat transfer that can lead to damage of devices. Adding microscopic ratchets on the surface may passively enable mobility of vapor bubbles and prevent this damage.
Veg-05: The young plants growing in the two Veggie facilities were inspected, watered if necessary, and photographed. The experiment is growing Red Robin dwarf tomatoes for a little over 3 months and will perform multiple harvests of the fruits produced. The Veg-05 investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: In preparation for the upcoming 1A ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep EVA scheduled for January 20th, the crew assembled the IROSA Mod Kit Lower Left Strut and Lower Right Strut, as well as the Center Mast Canister Pad onto the Right Upper Strut. In addition, the crew familiarized themselves with the ISS Power Augmentation (IPA) Mod Kit components and mechanisms, prepared the Mod Kit bag, and completed an EVA Procedure Conference. The main goal of this EVA is to route cables on two mod kits and install the 1A Mod Kit on the 1A Solar Array Wing (SAW) Mast Canister to prepare these SAWs for future IROSA installations.
Columbus Local Area Network (LAN) Switch (CLSW2) Installation: Today, the crew removed CLSW2 MkI and installed CLSW2 MkII in ongoing efforts to modernize the Columbus Data Management System (DMS). Following this, the crew installed the CLSW2 MkII Patch Panels in the Starboard Endcone Area and established redundant connections between the Configuration Management Unit (CMAU) and the European IP Communication Laptop (EICL V4) to Patch Panel 2.2. This supports systems, subsystems, and payloads for communication in the Columbus module.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain, Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew set up the recycle tank to drain via the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into the Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, and swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The crew then removed the empty recycle tank and installed a new one.
Completed Task List Activities:

WHC KTO Replace

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

RFID Reader Inhibit
PFMI Ampoule 3 Repair
ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain Support
PRO CIR Activation Commanding

