
SpaceX-5 Dragon Status:  On Saturday January 10th, SpaceX-5 successfully launched from Cape Canaveral at 3:47am CST. After a nominal rendezvous with ISS, the ISS Crew successfully captured the spacecraft today at 4:54am CST utilizing the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS).  Robotics Ground Controllers then used the SSRMS to support the inspection of the Dragon Passive CBM and then to maneuver Dragon for installation onto the Node-2 Nadir Active CBM.  Once berthed, the crew completed pressurization, outfitting of the Node 2 to Dragon vestibule and removed the Node 2 Controller Panel Assemblies (CPAs).  Dragon ingress and start of cargo operations is scheduled to begin tomorrow.  The SSRMS will remain grappled to Dragon until the start of the SpaceX-5 Cloud Aerosol Transport System (CATS) payload operations on January 15th. 
Double cold Bag:  Wilmore reviewed double cold bag unpack procedures in preparation for SpaceX-5 arrival of cold stowage utilization.
General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER):  Wilmore performed desiccant pack swap on GLACIER #2 in preparation for SpaceX-5 cold stowage utilization.
T-Cell Activation in Aging prep:   Cristoforetti read the big picture words and watched a video introduction in preparation of the T-Cell Act In Aging experiment.  The crew also unstowed and set up Kubik units #3 and #6 in the Columbus module, relocated the portable power supplies, then activated and preheated the Kubik units to check temperature and functionality of the centrifuges.  T-Cell Activation in Aging seeks the cause of a depression in the human immune system while in microgravity. T-cells, a type of white cell, are coated with chemical receptors that must trigger together to activate the body’s immune system properly. T-cells from flight crews and ground volunteers in a range of ages are analyzed to determine changes in protein production and gene response on the ground and in microgravity. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


[CCP] Panel – routing and cable check out 
Inspection of СМ-У connector on МНР-НС separator pump in АСУ behind panel 139 and line 5182-03 from Pretreat And Water Dispenser (ДКиВ) to МНР in its transparent section
Mini Cam configuration
 USOS windows shutters closing
Installation of Camera to feed imagery to LAB RWS Monitor 1 
Window covers  ##6,8,9,12,13,14 closure prior  to SpX-5 docking
Selection of Personal Hygiene Items for Priority use  
Dragon – Entering R bar 
Audibility curve recording with the use of EARQ S/W
KAZBEK Suit Fit check  
Dragon – Entering R bar 
ИП-1 Sensors position check
MSPR ELT –Cable connection
PEU set up on  CBEF
WRS – filling of container for recirculation System 
Life On The Station Photo and Video
T2 –   Monthly Inspection
MRM1 Fan Screen Cleaning (group C). 
Dragon – capture by  SSRMS
GLACIER- Hardware transfers 
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV.
Dragon – repress from Node 2 and leak check
Video downlink (termination)
MiniCam transfer into  A/L
DCB – Unpacking Procedure review  
CBCS –   Node 2 Nadir Hatch Camera Installation and power on  
MRM1 Fan Screen Cleaning (group B). Vacuum Cleaning area behind panels 405, 406
TCELL2 – Reading the Instruction 
Node 2 – Left Side CBM Uninstall prior to Docking 
 [ВКС] Laptops Antivirus data base Update / R/G7447
Audibility curve recording with the use of EARQ S/W
PPS1 – deactivation
WRS – Water Samples Analysis 
PPS1 – transfers
CBM – Capture and Bolts Fixture 
TCELL2- equipment installation
BAR. Experiment Ops
Life On The Station Photo and Video
CBCS –  Node 2 Nadir Hatch Camera Uninstall
TCELL2-KUB6 – Hardware Installation 
TCELL2 – Preparatory ops
[CCP] Panel – Cable Routing 
Physical Exercise Data Downlink
Dragon – repress from Node 2 and leak check 
ARED – Lubrication
Dragon – Transfer Compartment Fitting out 
Audibility curve recording with the use of EARQ S/W
Node 2 –  Docking Bolts Control Unit Uninstall
TOCA – data recording 
DCB – Unpacking Procedure review  
TCELL2-KUBIK- Temperature Monitoring  

Completed Task List Items

IMAX SpaceX-5 scene [In work]

 Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


System commanding associated with Dragon rendezvous, capture, and berthing

