01-19-2009
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Underway: Week 13 of Increment 18.   US Holiday: Martin Luther King's Birthday. Tomorrow: Inauguration Day. Let's welcome our new President.  CDR Fincke, FE-1 Lonchakov & FE-2 Magnus began their workday before breakfast with the periodic session of the Russian biomedical routine assessments PZEh-MO-7/Calf Volume Measurement.     [Calf measurements (left leg only) are taken with the IZOG device, a custom-sewn fabric cuff that fits over the calf, using the knee and lower foot as fixed reference pints, to provide a rough index of deconditioning in zero-G and effectiveness of countermeasures.]  The FE-2 supported JAXA SSIPC/Tsukuba (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center) in Checkout #2 of the JEMRMS BDS (Japanese Experiment Module Robotic Manipulator System Backup Drive System) by activating (later deactivating) the BUC (Backup Controller), opening the science window shutter in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and monitoring the function tests via the RMS MON1 (Monitor 1).  Later, Magnus turned off the MLT (Microgravity Measurement Apparatus Laptop Terminal).   After setting up the SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment) payload equipment for more sample runs, CDR Fincke was scheduled to –  Activate the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) from the A31p laptop,  Power on the SHERE hardware,  Access the CGBA (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus) to install the SHERE FM (Fluid Module) #56 (Test Point 38);  Support the first SHERE experiment trial run;  Transfer the module with the fluid sample,  Install FM #35 for the second experiment run (Test Point 39);  Transfer the module with the fluid sample,  Install FM #41 for the third experiment run (TP 40);  Transfer the module with the fluid sample,  Install FM #31 for the fourth experiment run (TP 41);  Remove the FM from the CGBA, followed by SHERE data transfer;  Turn off the SHERE/CGBA equipment;  Transfer the data files to the MSG laptop for subsequent downlink, and  Powered down the MSG.   [Ground investigators are working Mike's request to schedule the remaining SHERE runs for Increment 18 within this week. Background:  Rheology is the study of the deformation and flow of matter under the influence of an applied stress (“preshearing” = rotation) which might be, for example, a shear stress or extensional stress.  In practice, rheology is principally concerned with extending the "classical" disciplines of elasticity and (Newtonian) fluid mechanics to materials whose mechanical behavior cannot be described with the classical theories. SHERE is designed to study the effect of preshear (rotation) on the transient evolution of the microstructure and viscoelastic tensile stresses for solutions with long chains of monodisperse dilute polymer molecules in the MSG.  Collectively referred to as “Boger fluids,” these polymer solutions have become a popular choice for rheological studies of non-Newtonian fluids and are the non-Newtonian fluid used in this experiment.  The SHERE hardware consists of the Rheometer, Camera Arm, Interface Box, Cabling, Keyboard, Tool Box, Fluid Modules, and Stowage Tray.]  FE-1 Lonchakov worked with the Russian Orlan-M #25, pre-packing the life-expired spacesuit for disposal in Progress M-01M/31P on 2/9. Afterwards, Lonchakov unstowed special connectors in the DC1 (Docking Compartment) for relaying SUBA/Onboard Equipment Control System commands from the SM (Service Module) command loop to the Progress, followed by documentary photography for ground verification.  In the SM, Yuri also unstowed equipment and made preparations for testing operation & integrity of two solenoid valves on the PK3 (Pneumatic Control 3) of the SOTR/TCS (Thermal Control System) recharge loop.  Sandy Magnus completed the daily flushing of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser).   [The PWD had been found, via several microbial analyses by Magnus, to have bacteria growing in the ambient water.  It is suspected that this is due to the water being stagnant and not used.  The crew now performs daily flushes with 100 mL of deionized water.]  Yuri Lonchakov made preparations for a run of the Russian/German TEKh-20 Plasma Crystal-3 Plus (PK-3+) experiment payload, the first of Expedition 18, by unstowing the hardware in the SM PkhO (Transfer Compartment), installing it in the SM for operation and photographing the setup.  The images were downlinked to TsUP/Moscow via OCA for inspection, and the FE-1 performed the initial leak check of the PK-3 Electronics Box before its evacuation. More work to come tomorrow.   [The experiment is performed on plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside a vacuum work chamber.  Main objective is to obtain a homogeneous plasma dust cloud at various pressures and particle quantities with or without superimposition of an LF (low frequency) harmonic electrical field.  The experiment is conducted in automated mode.  PK-3+ has more advanced hardware and software than the previously used Russian PKE-Nefedov payload.]  Yuri also collected the periodic readings of potentially harmful atmospheric contaminants in the SM, using the CMS (Countermeasure System), a component of the SKDS GANK-4M Real-Time Harmful Contaminant Gas Analyzer suite, today using preprogrammed microchips to measure for Ammonia (NH3) and Formaldehyde (HCHO).  To support further troubleshooting of the JAXA DomGene experiment, Magnus configured and reconnected the ELT (Experiment Laptop - for the sample monitor during DomeGene experiment).    [On 1/5, the Ethernet communication between ELT and IPU (Image Processing Unit) failed. On 1/8, the connections were checked and the cables changed.  However, communication was still missing.]  The FE-1 completed the routine daily servicing of the SM's SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from US CWC to Russian EDV containers) if condensate is available.]   Lonchakov also performed the regular daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance task by updating/editing the IMS standard “delta file” including stowage locations for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Working on the Russian Matryoshka-R (RBO-3-2) radiation payload in the DC-1 (after having removed and stowed the ALC-957 PCMCIA {Portable Computer Memory Card International Adapter} memory card yesterday) the FE-1 retrieved a new card, INC18-ALC-959, from storage, installed it in the AST Spectrometer, checked it out, leaving the AST on.  As has become standard operating procedure after deactivation/reactivation of VD-SU monitoring mode (as required for today's REGUL-OS string 3 test & BITS2-12/Onboard Telemetry Measurement System reconfiguration by the ground or for powering up/down the Elektron) Yuri also performed a quick function verification of the SUBA Ethernet connection between the OpsLAN (Operations Local Area Network) and the BRI Smart Switch Router in the SM.   [BRI is part of the RS (Russian Segment) OpsLAN, with connections to the three SSC clients, the Ethernet tie-in with the US network, and a network printer in the RS.]   In the US Airlock, Sandy Magnus installed two expended METOX (Metal Oxide) EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) CO2 removal canisters (#0007, #0011) in the “bake-out” oven for regeneration, in preparation for the STS-119 spacewalks.  The station residents conducted their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup & post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), IRED/Interim Resistive Exercise Device (CDR, FE-2, not exceeding load 4.5/see next item) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  IRED Scraping Noise:   Mike Fincke reported scraping in the aft IRED canister at loads above 4.5.  A possible suspect is a cord washer that may not be level with the cord washer bolt.  A procedure to investigate is being developed.  The ground is also anticipating getting back into ARED A&CO (Advanced RED Activation & Checkout) first thing tomorrow morning.  No CEO (Crew Earth Observations) photo targets uplinked for today.   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  <http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/>  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  