01-15-2012January 15, 2012ISS On-Orbit Status 01/15/12  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Sunday – Crew off duty.   Ahead:  Week 9 of Increment 30 (six-person crew).  Today 43 years ago (1/15/1969), FE-2 Ivanishin was born in Irkutsk, Russia. Happy Birthday, Anatoly Alekseyevich!  After wakeup, FE-4 Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.   Also during the morning inspection, FE-1 Shkaplerov conducted the periodic checkup of the circuit breakers & fuses in the MRM1 Rassvet and MRM2 Poisk modules. [The monthly checkup in DC1, MRM1 & MRM2 looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 &BPP-36. MRM2 & MRM1 were derived from the DC1 concept and are very similar to it.]  CDR Burbank completed his 14th post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol. [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Oleg Kononenko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. This included the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow, as well as the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s & FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for calldown. [SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].  Afterwards, André used the CSA-O2 (Compound Specific Analyzer-O2) units (#1043, #1048) to take oxygen partial pressure readings in the SM and COL to see if an O2 refresh was called for.  On TsUP Go, Kononenko was to refresh ISS cabin atmosphere with another O2 represses from Progress 45P SRPK tankage.  At ~9:05am EST, Anton Shkaplerov, Anatoly Ivanishin & Oleg Kononenko engaged in a PAO phone interview via S-band with Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos (Russian Space) Magazine and an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.    [“Happy New Year! Somehow yours is a holiday expedition. How do you manage? - Oleg, did you get adjusted to the station by now? What have changed on the station for the past three years?  - Tell us please about your To Do list for the next month.  For example, you will have to install Chibis container in Progress which will undock from the station on January 24. Will you be recording its departure?  Another Progress will launch two days later. What is it delivering?  When and how will you start getting ready for EVA?- Your pictures are beautiful. Volcano crater in Mauritania came out great.  Finally Anton managed to photograph his beloved Balaklava.  Did you do it on your own or was it a part of the Uragan experiment?  Do you ever receive requests from the Ministry for Emergency Situations?  Europe is bombarded with hurricanes and snow blizzards. While real winter cannot reach Moscow.  When will it end? - You have a six-member crew again.  Can we say that you are a one team?  However, you work in different segments, and everybody is different.  Do you ever have “get-togethers” with a guitar Daniel is playing? - What are your children (little ones in particular) asking you about? Do they realize where their fathers are? What are they interested in?  All the best to you! See you soon! Ekaterina Beloglazova.”]  CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5 & FE-6 conducted their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Anatoly at ~5:30am, Anton at ~6:45am, Oleg at ~7:00am, André at ~10:00am, Don at ~12:05pm, Dan at ~1:10pm EST.  The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4).  Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko & Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were – A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, aiming for the Kerch Strait, Taman Laganakskoe plateau, the Red field, p. Terek, Kolka glacier, A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the Central-Eastern and South-Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and More preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.  