01-16-2009
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  CDR Fincke moved the IWIS (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System) Triaxial Accelerometer with RSU (Remote Sensor Unit) and its RSU power cable to Node-1, in preparation for taking ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) vibrational data.    [Ground to crew: “We still would like you to do this anticipating that ARED will be operational soon.  We will perform the IWIS data take as soon as you are a GO to perform an ARED exercise session.”]  Fincke & FE-2 Magnus performed the second reconfiguration of the JEMRMS BDS (JEM Robotic Manipulator System/Backup Drive System) from config #1 to #2 for RMS Checkout #2 and prepared for switching to BDS contingency re-configuration at Flight 2J/A.  The FE-2 conducted CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) monthly maintenance, first replacing the battery of the prime CSA-CP unit with a fresh spare, then performing visual & functional inspections of the CSA-CP probes for damage, using the sampling pumps in Node-1 and -2 for the checkup.    [Magnus reported initial and final values of O2, CO, HCN and HCL for units #1045 (prime), #1044, #1051, & #1058 plus number of battery packs used.]  FE-1 Lonchakov set up the equipment for his second session with the Russian experiment MBI-18 DYKHANIE (“Respiration”), then undertook the session, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop and supported by ground specialist tagup.   Yuri then closed down the hardware and stowed it.     [Dykhanie-1 uses two body belts (PG-T/thoracic, PG-A/abdominal), a calibrator, resistor, mouthpiece, etc., to study fundamental physiological mechanisms of the external breathing function of crewmembers under long-duration orbital flight conditions.  During the experiment, physiological measurements are taken and recorded with a pneumotachogram, a thoracic pneumogram, an abdominal pneumogram, and pressure data in the oral cavity.  All experimentally derived plus salient environmental data along with personal data of the subject are recorded on PCMIA card for return to the ground at end of the Expedition.  Objectives include determining the dynamics of the relationship between thoracic (pectoral) and abdominal breathing function reserves and their realization potential during spontaneous breathing, the coordinated spontaneous respiratory movements in terms of thoracic and abdominal components of volumetric, time & rate parameters of spontaneous respiratory cycle, identification of the features of humoral-reflex regulation of breathing by dynamics of ventilation sensitivity of thoracic and abdominal components to chemoreceptor stimuli, etc.  Overall, the experiment is intended to provide a better understanding of the basic mechanisms of pulmonary respiration/gas exchange gravitational relations of cosmonauts.]  The crew performed the mandatory two-hour OBT (onboard training) emergency egress drill for the case of rapid cabin depressurization, with Russian & US specialists standing by at both control centers for crew questions or comments.    [Background:  Purpose of the drill is to (a) familiarize the station residents with the location of hardware and the positions of valves used in emergency situations, (b) work through the Russian Segment (RS) hardware deactivation procedures, (c) practice crew emergency joint activities, and (d) identify crew comments and suggestions that arise during training regarding crew procedures and equipment.   In the RS, the crew translated along the emergency egress path to the FGB nadir port (where Soyuz 17S is currently docked), checking hardware such as the Sokol suits, cable cutters, fire extinguisher (OKR), gas masks (IPK), emergency procedures books, valve settings, hatch rubber seal & restraint integrity, etc.  In the US Segment (USOS) the inspection focused on fireports being unblocked in the Lab {21}, with other US modules to be checked by future crews), readiness of CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products), ISS leak kit, PBA (portable breathing assembly) and PFE (portable fire extinguisher), emergency procedures books, valve settings, integrity of hatch rubber seals, presence of hatch handrails, etc.  The checks also included Node-2, COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), JLP (Japanese Experiment Module Experiment Logistics Module Pressurized Section) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  The exercise was topped off by a thorough debrief with the ground via S-band.  During the session, the crew simulated executing the planned emergency procedures while moving about the station.  For the case of an onboard fire and for emergency descent, there are other mandatory emergency drill OBTs.]  Sandra Magnus conducted the T+2d inflight microbiology analyses for the samples collected on 1/14 from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Ambient plus SVO-ZV and SRV-K Warm taps.    [Sandy reported “yellow” for Coliform (= Negative), “100-ish purple dots, looking more like a purple smear” on the MCD (Microbial Capture Device) and a (nominal) incubation bag temperature of 78 degC.  Photos were taken for return to Earth.]  For Lonchakov, the Russian Flight Engineer, it was time today for his first orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test session with the Russian Chibis suit in preparation for his return to gravity on 4/5, conducting the MedOps MO-4 exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure).   With Mike Fincke acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer), Yuri was supported in his one-hour session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 11:22am.    [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body's cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Malenchenko's orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after 200 days in zero-G.  Data output includes blood pressure readings.]   The CDR configured the GLACIER facility's battery switch for ground-commanded hardware powerdown.    [GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator) units are ultra-cold freezers that will store samples as low as -185 degrees C.  The GLACIER provides a double middeck locker-sized ER (EXPRESS Rack)-compatible freezer/refrigerator for a variety of experiments that require temperatures ranging from +4 degC (39 degF) to -185 degC (-301 degF).  GLACIER is part of the Cold Stowage Fleet of hardware which includes the MELFI and the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker/Incubator).]   In the SM (Service Module), Yuri Lonchakov activated the two new “Zveno-B” (Link-B) modems behind panel 437 for a test session, tagging up with ground specialists via S-band as required.    [The modems link the RSE2 laptop computer to the SM REGUL comm system, enabling data to be uplinked/downlinked and commands to be uplinked directly.  Regul provides for two-way voice communication, digital command/program information as well as telemetry transmission via RGS (Russian Groundsites).  It also has the capability to receive and transmit range, radial velocity, and time-referenced information.  It is the nominal uplink path for all Russian commands and is the only subsystem that operates using the Command Radio Link (KRL). Operating at a low data rate, it is equivalent to the U.S. S-band system. There is no Russian equivalent of the U.S. high data rate Ku-band system, based on the TDRS satellites.]  Sandy completed the daily flushing of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser).   [The PWD had been found, via several microbial analyses by Sandy, to have bacteria growing in the ambient water.  It is suspected that this is due to the water being stagnant and not used.  The crew now performs daily flushes with 100 mL of deionized water.]   Yuri continued his support of the new Russian student-developed payload OBR-1-2/”Fizika-Faza”, taking photography of the experiment.    [OBRAZOVANIE (Education) is a suite of three educational demonstrations of physics in micro-G, viz., OBR-1-1/”Fizika-LT” (Motion), OBR-1-2/”Fizika-Faza” (Phase) and OBR-1-3/”Fizika-Otolit”.]  The FE-2 completed the routine daily servicing of the SM's SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]  The FE-1 performed the regular daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance task by updating/editing the IMS standard “delta file” including stowage locations for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Sandy Magnus filled out the regular FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire), her sixth, on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).  Mike Fincke's fourth FFQ activity is still on his “job jar” task list.    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   Working from his discretionary “time permitting” task list, Lonchakov performed the frequent status check on the Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-1 ("Plants-1") experiment, verifying proper operation of the BU Control Unit and MIS-LADA Module fans (testing their air flow by hand).   [Rasteniya-1 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-14 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]  At ~2:45am EST, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.  At ~4:15am, Yuri & Mike linked up with TsUP stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory & stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.  At ~8:20am, the crew had the regular teleconference with the next crew, Expedition 19, as an early handover activity.  At ~2:10pm, the ISS crew will have their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H via S-band/audio.    [S/G-2 (Space-to-Ground 2) phone patch via SSC (Station Support Computer).]  JPM/JLP Vestibule Leak Check Update: Yesterday's standard leak check of the vestibule between the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and JLP (JEM Pressurized Logistics Segment) was successful, showing only a 4 mmHg delta-P (required was a delta-P of less than 30 mmHg).    [The readings of JLP/JPM Vestibule pressure were:  252 mmHg at 2:52pm on 1/14; 256 mmHg at 6:15am on 1/15.]  CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  <http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/>  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  