01-13-2009
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Upon wakeup, FE-2 Magnus started the next part (3rd of 5) of the periodic acoustic measurement protocol by recording post-sleep data of the crew-worn acoustic dosimeters, later deploying the dosimeters statically (Part 4), one at the SM (Service Module) Central Post, one in Node-2 and the third in an empty rack bay in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  Later (~1:20pm EDT), Magnus recorded the data taken by the three static dosimeters during the day (Part 5).   [Acoustic data must be taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.]   Before morning inspection and breakfast, FE-1 Lonchakov terminated his sixth experiment session for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember's physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  Before breakfast & first exercise, CDR Fincke, FE-1 Lonchakov and FE-2 Magnus completed a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis. Afterwards, the FE-1 closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware.    [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)'s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]   FE-1 Lonchakov performed the periodic cleaning of the screen of the BVN air heater fan assembly in the Soyuz TMA-13/17S vehicle's Orbital Module (BO), docked at the FGB nadir port.  Yuri terminated the battery charging for the Russian payload TKhN-7 SVS (Self-Propagating High-Temperature Synthesis), then installed the experiment and ran a session, with photo/video documentation.  The SVS-04 video cassette was then prepacked for return n Soyuz 17S.  The experiment results and SVS kit will be returned on STS-119/15A.    [SVS uses its own camera, “Telescience” hardware from PK-3 (Plasma Crystallization) and the onboard Klest TV system for researching self-propagating high-temperature fusion of samples in space.]   Sandra Magnus worked in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), removing & replacing the failed MLU8 LHA (Module Lighting Unit 8/Lamp Housing Assembly) at location COL10A4.  The FE-2 also completed the daily flushing of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser).   [The PWD had been found, via several microbial analyses by Magnus, to have bacteria growing in the ambient water.  It is suspected that this is due to the water being stagnant and not used.  The crew now performs daily flushes with 100 mL of deionized water.]   Yuri Lonchakov continued his support of the new Russian student-developed payload OBR-1-2/”Fizika-Faza”, taking photography of the experiment.   [OBRAZOVANIE (Education) is a suite of three educational demonstrations of physics in micro-G, viz., OBR-1-1/”Fizika-LT” (Motion), OBR-1-2/”Fizika-Faza” (Phase) and OBR-1-3/”Fizika-Otolit”.]  Magnus supported analysis and troubleshooting of the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) by transferring data from the TOCA compact flash to a USB drive and subsequent downlinking to the ground.  Mike Fincke took GSC (Grab Sample Container) air samples in the center of the Lab, SM (Service Module) and COL, while Yuri Lonchakov used the Russian AK-1M absorber to collect air samples in the SM & FGB, recording date, time & location.  Kits and pouches were then stowed for return to Earth.  Sandy set up the video equipment and hardware of the GLACIER payload.    [GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator) units are ultra-cold freezers that will store samples as low as -185 degrees C.  The GLACIER provides a double middeck locker-sized ER (EXPRESS Rack)-compatible freezer/refrigerator for a variety of experiments that require temperatures ranging from +4 degC (39 degF) to -185 degC (-301 degF).  GLACIER is part of the Cold Stowage Fleet of hardware which includes the MELFI and the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker/Incubator).]  Mike Fincke worked on installation & checkout of the new US food warmer at the ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6) in the Lab.  The FE-1 completed the routine daily servicing of the SM's SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]   Later, Yuri undertook his second periodic (generally monthly) health test with the cardiological experiment PZEh MO-1 (“Study of the Bioelectric Activity of the Heart at Rest”) on the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation System), with Mike Fincke assisting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).     [Equipment used were VPG/Temporal Pulsogram and ECG/Electrocardiogram Data Output Devices (USI).  During the 30-min. test, the FE-1 tagged up with ground specialists on an RGS (Russian Groundsite) pass at ~11:42am EST via VHF for data downlink from the VPG and Gamma-1M ECG for about 5-6 minutes.]  The crew conducted their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup & post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR, FE-2), TVIS treadmill (FE-1), IRED/Interim Resistive Exercise Device (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  VolSci Correction:   The two discretionary VolSci sessions on 1/10 by Fincke & Magnus (a SHERE/Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment run, and a LOCAD-PTS/Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System sampling session) were not completed as reported due to power issues with the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) and nearby rack.  This info was unfortunately received too late for inclusion in the ISS status report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations) photo targets uplinked for today were Mount Toondina Impact Crater, Australia (ISS had a nadir pass over the Mount Toondina impact structure, which is 4 km in diameter and no more than 110 million years old.  A roughly circular ring structure that contrasts with the surrounding desert should be visible, located within a white “spot” between two large river channels.  Overlapping mapping frames, taken along track, are suggested as the best approach to acquiring imagery of the crater.  Some scattered clouds may have been present), Lake Eyre, Australia (looking to the right of track for the northwestern corner of Lake Eyre.  Water levels in this large lake basin fluctuate significantly with seasonal rainfall.  We are particularly interested in mapping frames of the current shoreline positions in the northwestern portion of the lake basin), and Chaiten Volcano, Chile (ISS had a near-nadir pass over this recently reactivated volcano in southern Chile.  Prior to its eruption in May 2008, the volcano had been quiet for more than 9000 years; it has caused significant damage to the town of Chaiten located to the southwest.  Looking to the left of track for the volcano; photography of the summit lava domes is of particular interest. Steam and ash plumes may also be visible).  CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  <http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/>  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  