
Payloads
Antimicrobial coatings:  The crew touched coupons A-G, then took photos of each of the coupons. The experiment was set up in early January and is planned to remain deployed for a period of 6 months. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Astrobee/REGGAE (Reduced Gravity Gecko Adhesion docking Experiments): The crew installed the various REGGAE Chaser and REGGAE Targets onto the Astrobee satellites, and then activated the robots and performed a functional checkout for the REGGAE investigation.  REGGAE tests capture and active removal of space debris in low-Earth orbit using materials that mimic the microscopic structures in the feet of geckos, flies, spiders and beetles that allow them to adhere to almost any surface. Space debris – human-made objects that remain in orbit but no longer serve a useful purpose, including derelict satellites and spent launch vehicle stages – poses a risk to the use of low-Earth orbit. Removal is essential to continued safe operation of satellites and spacecraft.
CCU (Collapsible Contingency Urinal): The crew set up the CCU for use for a 2 day trial period, and filled out a series of questionnaires to give feedback on the use of the hardware. The Collapsible Contingency Urinal is exploration hardware flown to ISS as a tech demo.
CIR/ACME hardware replace: The crew opened the doors on the CIR, removed the ACME insert, and removed 2 broken silicon carbide (SiC) fiber from the 5-fiber array inside the ACME system.  These thin SiC fibers are used to determine temperature of areas in and around the flames generated by the ACME experiments.  The crew also replaced an igniter tip used to ignite the gas mixtures in the ACME insert. This will allow the continuation of the BRE-part 2 experiment.  The Burning Rate Emulator (BRE) investigation is conducted in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) on the International Space Station (ISS), as part of the Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) project. In this fire safety study, the flammability of solid and liquid materials is simulated by burning gaseous fuels under key conditions corresponding to the solid and liquid materials.
HemoCue: The crew prepared 3 control solution samples and processed them with the WBC (white blood cell) analyzer. The ground reported getting 9 good science runs, plus 3 bonus science runs during the successful operations.  HemoCue WBC DIFF White Blood Cell Count and Differentiator Technology Demonstration (HemoCue) tests the ability of a commercially available device to provide quick and accurate total and differentiated WBC counts in microgravity using control solutions. The total number of WBCs and counts of the five different types of WBCs (neutrophils, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, and basophils) are commonly used by doctors to aid in the diagnosis of sick patients and to monitor a variety of health conditions on Earth. Verification of an autonomous medical capability for blood analysis in microgravity on the International Space Station is an important step in meeting the health care needs of crew members on long duration missions.
ISS Experience:  The crew set up the ISS Experience hardware and captured the CIR/ACME hardware activities performed today. The International Space Station Experience (The ISS Experience) is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station. Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.  The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Systems
In Flight Maintenance Gas Trap Plug Inspection for Node 2 LTL – the Crew inspected the witness marks on the Node 2 LTL Pump Package Assembly (PPA) Gas Trap Plugs and re-tightened any of them, if needed. This will ensure that the Gas Trap Plugs have maintained a good seal over the Gas Trap Vent Holes over time.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Service and Performance Checkout Unit (SPCU) Heat Exchanger (HX) Airlock Configuration – the crew configured the Airlock for the upcoming SPCU HX R&R. This included isolating the SPCU HX from the Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Low Temperature Loop (LTL). The ISS Joint Airlock Service and Performance Checkout Unit (SPCU) Heat Exchanger (HX) transfers heat from EMU water loops to the ITCS LTL loop.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

HRF Rack 2 Rack Power Up Commanding
Venting System Activation – VEDD opening
Preparation of Life Support Rack for automatic operation
Primary Power System (PPS) Longeron Shadowing Fault Detection, Isolation, and Recovery (FDIR) Inhibit
Command and Control Software (CCS) Mobile Transporter (MT) Diagnostic Buffer Collection List (DBCL) Dump
PRO MELFI 3 Dewar Timeliner Configuration Commanding

