01-14-2010January 14, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/14/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Today’s sleep/wake cycle:  Wake last night – 8:30pm; sleep – 4:00pm today (until 2:00am tomorrow morning)Today’s extended workday (19h 30m) included two “snack” periods (1:50am-2:20am; 12:30pm-1:05pm)   The Russian Orlan EVA-24 spacewalk by FE-1 Maxim Suraev & FE-4 Oleg Kotov began at 5:05am EST and lasted 5h 44min, concluding successfully at 10:49am.  Attitude control authority was handed over to Russian MCS (Motion Control System) thrusters at 2:50am and returned to U.S. momentum management at ~6:50am.  All scheduled objectives were completed.  The two spacewalkers –  Routed and mated Kurs-P SM (Service Module)-to-MRM2 cablesRouted and mated Ethernet SM-to-MRM2 cablesInstalled docking targets, antennas, and two handrails on MRM2Removed & returned a Biorisk experiment container from the DC-1. [This completes MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2) outfitting in preparation for future rendezvous operations. Besides the outfitting, the crew also jettisoned two MLI (Multi-Layer Insulation) bundles.  EV1 noted that the "blurry" spot on his suit display observed during the Dry Run was also apparent during the EVA.  In addition, both the Primary and Backup Fans were activated on EV2’s suit.  The EV crew noted corrosion on the SM Hydrogen vent valve and possible MMOD strikes on the SM PkhO. Nominal SM Kurs system performance following the EVA was confirmed via testing.]  CDR Williams assisted EVA-24 preparations by readying the two EVA digital cameras, while FE-5 Noguchi closed the protective shutters of the Lab and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) science windows and deactivated the onboard ham radio equipment to prevent stray RF interference with suit communications.  Before starting the spacewalk and before breakfast & first exercise, Suraev & Kotov took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.  Afterwards, Kotov closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware.     [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]  After conclusion of EVA-24 at ~10:49am, Oleg & Maxim –  Repressurized the SM PkhO transfer compartment,Conducted their second MO-9 “Urolux” biochemical urine test,Reset STTS communications in the SM/PkhO,Re-installed the air duct through the PkhO hatch,Restored systems configurations in the SM to pre-EVA conditions, andSet up the Orlan-MK suits, umbilicals and BSS interface units for drying out.    During the course of the spacewalk, CDR Jeff Williams –  Performed routine maintenance on the four CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units (#1052, #1042, #1056, #1049), changing batteries on all units and performing zero calibration on each CSA-CP,Audited & verified quantity (4) of 1.0" QD SPD (Quick Disconnect Spool Positioning Device) assemblies for 20A EVA Ops involving ammonia, andWorked in the SM to conduct troubleshooting in three parts on the VIS (Vibration Isolation System) power for the TVIS treadmill  [prior to today the available VIS power had dropped by approximately 60W, affecting VIS performance during motorized exercise sessions, especially at higher speeds and higher subject loads.  In those conditions TVIS platform stability is reduced and the likelihood of TVIS hardware damage increases.]   FE-4 Kotov had begun the day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by Maxim on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-6 TJ Creamer & FE-5 Soichi Noguchi broke out equipment from stowage, then worked several hours to route & connect power, data and RF (radio frequency) cabling for the CUCU (COTS UHF Communications Unit), connecting it to ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6, LAB104) Locker 7.     [These activities continued preparations for the next scheduled grappled Free Flyer vehicle called Dragon, currently expected to arrive at the ISS later this year.]  TJ also worked in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), installing the ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) sampling adapter to retrieve a TCS coolant sample for return to the ground.  After reviewing procedures and hardware for the SpaceDRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix) experiment and charging the system battery, Creamer set up the video equipment and the SpaceDRUMS facility, including the test carousel which he loaded with the debris trap into the processing module.    [SpaceDRUMS suspends a solid or liquid sample using 20 acoustic beam emitters during combustion or heat-based synthesis.  Materials can be produced in microgravity with an unparalleled quality of shape and composition.  SpaceDRUMS will support scientific understanding of processes like combustion synthesis and self-propagating high temperature synthesis and also provide direct commercial benefits from materials processing.  Advanced ceramics, polymer, and colloids can be processed in SpaceDRUMS.]  Williams performed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Collapsible Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week.    [The current card is 22-0003F.]  Noguchi had Day 2 with the Generic HRF (Human Research Facility) Blood & Urine Activities for the first onboard session with the new routine, modified from the past NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, continuing the 24-hr urine collections started yesterday, stowing the samples in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) and also doing blood sample collection later in the day.     [The operational products for Blood & Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]  In the Kibo module, the FE-5 checked on yesterday’s troubleshooting of the MI (Marangoni Inside) Core with Elmer’s glue, testing silicone oil absorption by the MI Core and glue curing to verify silicone oil leak tightness after the repair.  Also in the Kibo, Noguchi worked on the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility), reconfiguring its IU (Incubator Unit) stirring fan and removing the 1G CBEF IU fan.  WPA Reverse Flow Update:   The WPA (Water Processor Assembly) passed its leak check yesterday and, upon completion, processed 21.5 L.  No performance increase was noted, and engineers are not sure the backflush had any effects on performance.      The three non-RS crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5).  Later, Soichi transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Majuro, Marshall Islands (looking to the right of track for Majuro, the capital and largest city of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.  The city is built on the Majuro atoll that consists of 64 islets.  Imagery of the Majuro atoll - which will include the city - was requested), Yangtze River Delta (weather was clear over the Yangtze River Delta.  The delta region is highly developed with several large cities in the immediate area [including the following target Shanghai].  Overlapping mapping frames of the delta were requested in order to track shoreline and land use change), Shanghai, China (looking slightly to the right of track for the megacity of Shanghai.  This urban area is the largest in China, and also one of the largest in the world.  Overlapping mapping frames, taken along track as ISS traversed across the metropolitan area from SW to NE, were requested), Simon's Bay, Cape Point, S. Africa (HMS Beagle Site.  Cape Point forms the western side of False Bay at the southwestern tip of Africa.  Simon's Bay is a smaller embayment within False Bay.  Charles Darwin visited the area in 1836.  Imagery of Cape Point and the western shoreline of False Bay was requested.  Keep tracking northwards from the Bay to the following target of Cape Town), Cape Town, South Africa (ISS had a near nadir-viewing opportunity of this developing South African city.  Overlapping mapping frames, taken along track, were requested to obtain a rural-urban-rural transect across the urban area), and Wetumpka Impact Crater, AL (weather was predicted to be clear over this small [7.6 km diameter] crater.  While the crater is well preserved, it is difficult to see due to soil and vegetation cover.  Looking slightly to the right of track for the crater.  The crew was to start taking overlapping mapping frames as it approached and passed over the target coordinates as the best approach to capture imagery of the crater).  