01-23-2010January 23, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/23/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – full-duty day.   FE-4 Kotov began his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   CDR Williams & FE-6 Creamer continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), donning their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Maxim Suraev had 2h50m for undertaking his 4th onboard session with the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment after setting up the workplace and equipment, with Kotov acting as Operator.  Later, the Pilot-M & Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled & stowed away, and Max reported to TsUP-Moscow on his run.    [MBI-15 requires the Multipurpose Hardware Bench as a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO & RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) with software (v. 2.0) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.]   Oleg Kotov conducted a session with the Russian science payload BIMS (MBI-22) which included otoscopic, nasal, dental and dermatological exams for evaluating the skin and mucous membranes for any changes over long-duration space missions, based on video and digital photography to capture areas of skin, gums, nasal passages and the ear canal.     [BIMS objective is to conduct several experimental sessions in the RS (Russian Segment) for filming skin portions and mucous membranes of crewmembers.  It is part of a comprehensive research into using telemedical technologies for getting information from distant space crews for medical support of human space missions and information for life science flight studies.  The BIMS experiment uses image capturing (video & still photo), an otoscope (or auriscope - the familiar medical device for visualizing the outer & middle ear, nose and upper throat area), the RSE-med laptop and PCMCIA memory cards, with data files downlink via BSR-TM to study small skin sites, conduct otorhinolaryngologic examinations (external acoustic meatus, eardrums, nasal passages), and do stomatologic (i.e., medical study of mouth and its diseases) examination of gums and teeth.]   CDR Williams & FE-6 Creamer, assisted by FE-5 Noguchi, spent several hours on successfully relocating the PMA-3 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 3).  Activities, which went very well, included –  Checkout of both Lab &      Cupola RWS (Robotic Workstation) laptops, Final PMA-3 internal      pressure check for leaks, then tearing down the 5-ft ISA/VAJ (Internal Sampling      Adapter / Vacuum Access Jumper) used for the leak test, Setting Node-1 Port &      Node-2 Zenith hatches to unlatch position (to minimize probability/effects      of a hatch mechanism jam which would preclude opening hatch for ingress of      PMA-3 on Node-2 Zenith, or Node-3 on Node-1 Port during STS-130/20A), Powering up & checking      out the CBCS (Centerline Berthing Camera System) in Node-2 for the PMA-3      berthing. Grappling PMA-3 with the      SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) at the Node-1 port      location, Demating PMA-3 from the      Node-1 Nadir CBM (Common Berthing Mechanism), Maneuvering PMA-3 to      pre-install position at Node-2 Zenith port, Installing PMA-3 on the      Node-2 Zenith port, Capturing with the CBM      & tightening ABOLTS (Acquire Bolts), Ungrappling SSRMS and      maneuvering to Lab PDGF (Power & Data Grapple Fixture) for 20A Base      checkout, and Deinstalling and removing      the CBCS.   [PMA-3 needed to be relocated from Node-1/Port to Node-2/Zenith in order to make way for STS-130/20A to install Node-3 in its place on Node-1/Port.]    The FE-1 completed the routine task of shooting two photos of the docking cone of the passive docking assembly (ASP-B) of the MRM2 port occupied by the Soyuz TMA-16, a standard practice after Russian dockings.  These images are used to refine current understanding of docking conditions.  Suraev subsequently downlinked the pictures via OCA assets.     [The objective is to take photo imagery of the scratch or scuff marks left by the head of the docking probe on the internal surface of the drogue (docking cone, ASP) ring, now rotated out of the passageway.  Before shooting the picture, the cosmonaut highlights the scuffmark with a marker and writes the date next to it.  As other crewmembers before him, Maxim used the Nikon D2X digital still camera to take two pictures with the hatch partially closed.]   Afterwards, Suraev conducted the periodic collection of air samples, including checking for Freon, in the SM (Service Module) & FGB using the AK-1M adsorber, recording date, time & location.   FE-1 also used the Russian IPD-NH3 Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the SM cabin air for CO (Carbon Monoxide).  The samplers were stowed for subsequent return to Earth.   With the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system temporarily turned off, Kotov deinstalled the BKGA Gas Analyzer Calibration Assembly in the SM.   The Elektron O2 generator was then reactivated by ground commanding, with Oleg monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.    [The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.  Elektron had to be turned off while BITS & VD-SU were off.]   In the Soyuz TMA-17/21S, the FE-4 removed and replaced the BlP Console Logic Unit for the BVN Air Heater Fan.   Oleg also had ~2.5 hrs to perform IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the RS EPS (Electrical Power System), taking out unit #2 of the six 800A batteries in the FGB and replacing it with a new 800A battery from FGB stowage.     [The activity involved working with wrenches, screwdriver, tweezers and gray tape, plus demating & remating five cable connectors.]   Creamer had Day 2 with the Nutrition/Repository/Pro K protocol, today executing the FD30 (Flight Day 30) blood draw session, after stowing the samples from the 24-hr urine collections started yesterday in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Noguchi assisted as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  TJ also captured a photo of the pH log sheet and the diet log sheet and transferred it to the SSC (Station Support Computer) in preparation for downlink.  His next Nutrition/Repository/Pro K activity is the FD60 session.     [The operational products for Blood & Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]   Jeff retrieved & stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies, deployed on 1/21 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.     [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]   In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Soichi Noguchi serviced the Dewey’s Forest science payload, which requires periodic watering for the cultivation of its PUs (Plant Units).     [Dewey’s Forest, one of the Japanese educational payloads, is intended to show how gravity controls the laws of nature and influences our ways of thinking. The project is “a catalyst to rediscover our relationship with plants on the ground and the age-old history of our gardens.”]   Also in the Kibo module, Soichi supported Japanese payload ops by turning on the Argon gas supply of the CGSE (Common Gas Support Equipment).   Later, the FE-5 downlinked a playback of the 63-min miniDV video tape recorded on 1/16 of his onboard activities for JAXA.   In the SM, FE-1 Suraev did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Maxim also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).  Reboost maneuver:   CDR Williams closed the protective shutters of the Lab & JPM science windows in preparing for the ISS reboost maneuver #2 scheduled for early tomorrow morning (4:01am EST), to be performed for 2min 34s by the SM Main Engines.  The combination of this reboost and the prior 1/22 reboost will set up phasing for 36P launch and several FD3 rendezvous launch opportunities for STS-130/20A.  Expected delta-V: 2.85 m/s; delta-h increase: 4.93 km.  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Two -- Week 8)  3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    No report.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:   No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    “Thank you TJ for taking additional pictures for BIOLAB.  Engineering teams are defining the recovery actions.  Please expect some feedback soon!”   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   “First session for Soichi was performed successfully.”  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:   “Jeff: thanks for completing your pill ingestion. Your next session is scheduled for 1/24.  Soichi: thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Your next session is scheduled for 1/24.”  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    CBEF fan reconfiguration preparation was performed 01/14.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    Samples will return on the next shuttle.  CETSOIL (ESA):   MSRR-1 activities have resumed on 1/20, with the processing of the CETSOL#3 SCA (Sample Cartridge Assembly).  Solidification phase is planned to take place during 1/22 night time.  The processing of MICAST#4 SCA is currently planned between 1/27 and 1/28.  Plan is to process a total of 4 SCAs to return on STS-130 (20A).  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.     DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    Acquiring data.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    The rack is continuously active in support of the Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility (PCDF) experiment. EDR is providing power/data and temperature control (via cooling loop) to PCDF.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):     No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Rack activated on 1/7 to support PASSAGES and monthly DOSIS data downlink.   EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):    No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Watering.     EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):  No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   Tapes were returned on ULF3.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):   MVIS commissioning activities have been carried out between 1/11 and 1/19.  Still issue with files downlink and MARS USOC will request additional FSL ground commanded activities at the end of January.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    “Soichi collected hair sample from TJ on 1/19.  Thank you for bearing the pain.”  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):   No report.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    No report.   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    Postponed. Troubleshooting planning is now in progress.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Continuing observation operation.  Marangoni UVP:   Leak repair from 01/11-01/15.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE (Materials ISS Experiment):  Ongoing.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory):    Processed SCAs from CETSOL and MICAST were returned on ULF3.   MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    “TJ: Thank you for helping us recover SLAMMD functionality.  The next SLAMMD session for you and Jeff will be in February.”   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “Jeff, TJ, and Soichi: thank you for participating in Reaction Self Test!”   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    “SAIBO fire port seal was completed, Thank you.”    SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuing observation operations.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):    No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Jeff and TJ:  You are currently completing another week of Sleep logging.  The next Actiwatch download/initialization session will take place NLT 2/5.”  SMILES (JAXA):    Continuing observations.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in. Liquids, ESA):    The Cell Array #2 has a binary mixture of 50% water - 50% isopropanol leading to positive Soret coefficient (when the lighter component is driven towards the higher temperature region of the experimental cell). IVIDIL remaining runs have been successfully performed from 1/11 until 1/20 on a 24/7 basis. This last script concluded a successful set of 54 runs, and the experiment is now completed. Preliminary assessment of science images on-going.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   Last Sun observation window #24 has been completed on 1/18.   SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.  SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   “Jeff, thank you for completing the 6th of 8 SWAB Water Collections!  Only two more to go!”  THERMOLAB (ESA):     No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    VLE-1 completed.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):    Through 1/19, the ground has received a total of 24,700 frames of ISS-22 CEO imagery for review and cataloguing.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of imagery for the following CEO Target Requests:  Kuwait City, Kuwait – excellent, detailed coverage – requirements complete for this target; Male, Maldives – remarkably good photography of a very challenging target – requirements complete; Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates – great coverage – yet another target done; and “Dubai Palms” and “World”, United Arab Emirates - complete.  Thanks for your excellent response to our target requests.  Much of this week’s downlinked imagery is still under review for completion of requirements.  We’ll have more success to report next week.  We hope to provide feedback on your Port-au-Prince, Haiti imagery by early next week.  This past weekend, your recent view of Bridgetown, Barbados was published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website.  This excellent image is of one of our CEO target requests for geographic imagery of national capitals.  Thanks for this fine acquisition.”   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Bosumtwi Impact Crater, Ghana (weather was predicted to be clear over this young [approximately 1 million years old] lake-filled impact crater.  Overlapping, nadir-viewing frames of the crater were requested), Algiers, Algeria (looking slightly to the left of track for the capital city of Algeria.  The city is located on the west side of a bay on the Mediterranean Sea.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), Basseterre, St. Kitts and Nevis (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over the capital city of Basseterre.  The city is located on the southwestern coast of Saint Kitts Island, and is one of the oldest towns in the eastern Caribbean region.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), and San Salvador, El Salvador (the capital city of El Salvador in an interior valley, immediately to the west of Lake Illopango.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area, and urban-rural fringe, were requested).  