
Payloads:
AstroPi: The crew adjusted the back focus of the AstroPi 5 mm camera lens and set the aperture to 8.  This was performed for the AstroPi unit currently mounted in the Node 2 nadir window.  The current Astro Pis are a very recent upgrade and replacement for the original Astro Pi hardware that flew to the ISS in 2015 for the mission of ESA astronaut Tim Peake. They are two Raspberry Pi 4B computers enclosed in a space-proof case with a range of new environmental sensors and a 12-megapixel camera for Earth Observation.  Students in European schools who are participating in the European Astro Pi Challenge can control these computers using the python programming language.
Repository: Urine sample collection was performed in support of the Repository investigation.  The samples will be preserved and returned to the ground for analysis.  Repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Sampling Quadrangle Assemblages Research Experiment (SQuARE): The crew took photos of the SQuARE experiment sites located in the Node 1 Galley, JEM, Columbus, Node 2, Node 3, and the US Lab.  SQuARE is an investigation that aims to document items within six defined locations around the ISS over time. The idea is to look at the ISS as an archaeological site, and each of the Squares as a “test pit”.
Systems: 
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Activities: The crewmembers performed EMU hardware activities following Wednesday’s RS EVA, beginning with reconfiguring the EMUs on the EMU Don/Doff Assemblies (EDDAs). The Helmet Lights were then separated from the EMU TV/HD EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) and each component was re-installed back onto the EMU Helmet. US tools and Lithium Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (LREBA) were restowed since they were used during the RS EVA.
Station Systems Computer (SSC)18 ZBook Shell Swap: The crew performed activities to replace the SSC18 Zbook shell with a stowed spare. They removed the SSC18 primary and Ultrabay High Definition Drive (HDD), and then installed that same hardware into the new Zbook shell and connected power, data, and peripherals.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain Support
S-Band Index Change
Video System Port 1 Upper Outboard Luminaire Checkout
HRF Rack 1 Rack Power Up Commanding

