01-21-2011January 21, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/21/11  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       Sleep shift:    Today:   Wake – 1:00am EST; Sleep – 8:30pm Tomorrow:  Wake – 6:00am; Sleep – 4:30pm (returning to normal)  The Russian Orlan EVA-27 by FE-2 Oleg Skripochka & FE-4 Dmitri Kondratyev concluded successfully at 2:52pm EST, with a total duration of 5h 27 (begin: 9:25am).  It was the second EVA to utilize the Orlan telemetry via S-Band matching unit, instead of executing the EVA on VHF over RGS (Russian Ground Sites).  Tasks completed by the spacewalkers were –  Installing the RSPI radio data transmission system for the SVPI Napor experiment (a system for high-speed information transmission) on the SM RO (Working Compartment); Photographing the SM plasma pulse injector monoblock (IPI-SM), placing a protective cover on, then deactivating & removing the monoblock from the portable workstation in Plane II of the SM RO; Placing the protective cover on the EXPOSE-R monoblock, then deactivating & removing the monoblock from the portable workstation; andInstalling/connecting a TV camera at the MRM1 ASP passive docking unit side.  Two items jettisoned were the protective cover of the SVPI high-speed data transmission system unit and the cable reel for the RSPI radio transmission system.  Before breakfast & first exercise, FE-2 Skripochka & FE-4 Kondratyev took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.  Afterwards, Oleg closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware.      [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]  FE-1 Kaleri conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Alex will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Alex completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module).     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.]  Also before the EVA, FE-6 Coleman inhibited the CUCU (COTS UHF Communications Unit) in the Lab (O4) by opening four circuit breakers.  In preparing the RS (Russian Segment) for the spacewalk by shutting down selected systems, FE-1 Kaleri also supported TsUP-Moscow in deactivating the Elektron O2 generator (~4:05am).  As part of the standard deactivation process the Elektron was purged with N2 (nitrogen), controlled from laptop.  Later (~5:15pm), Alex supported the ground-commanded reactivation of the Russian Elektron O2 generator by monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.     [The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.]  FE-5 Nespoli closed the protective shutters of the Lab, Node-3/Cupola and JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) science windows.  After setting up the MRM2 “Poisk” module for their isolation period, Sasha removed the air duct from the DC1 (leaving the V3 fan in place) and from the MRM2, while Scott Kelly gathered the items he was to use during his isolation and relocated the SSC6 laptop from Node-2 to MRM2 in preparation for operations during the RS EVA.  Kaleri then closed the MRM2-to-SM (SU) hatch, at ~7:20am, and his & Kelly’s lockout began at ~7:30am.  FE-5 Nespoli and FE-6 Coleman were located in the USOS with access to FGB/MRM1/25S.  Progress 39P was prepared for unscheduled (contingency) undocking if required.  While Scott & Alex were sequestered in the MRM2/24S volume for ~8h 40m, the U.S. CDM (Carbon Dioxide Monitor) was used for CO2 measurements in MRM2/24S due to the failure of the Neptun InPU panel in the 24S spacecraft.  During the lockout, Scott Kelly was to work a number of tasks, viz.  –  Reviewing HTV EVA (H-II Transfer Vehicle / Extravehicular Activity) tasks,Cleaning all cameras not in use during the day and redeploying cleaned cameras,Completing the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on airways issues,Performing a one-hour training session with the EVA ECWS (EMU Caution & Warning Simulator) Onboard Trainer,Taking the one-hour OBT with the EVA SAFER (Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue) Onboard Trainer, andBuilding a T61P USB Video Adapter Cable, required for Service Pack Deployment for SSCs (Station Support Computers)   After conclusion of EVA-27 at ((~6:53am))), Oleg & Dmitri –  Repressurized the SM PkhO transfer compartment,   Conducted their second MO-9 “Urolux” biochemical urine test,Reset STTS communications in the SM/PkhO,Re-installed the air duct through the PkhO hatch,Restored systems configurations in the SM to pre-EVA conditions, andSet up the Orlan-MK suits, gloves, umbilicals and BSS interface units for drying out.    FE-1 Kaleri, who had remained isolated in the MRM2 during EVA-27 with Scott Kelly, –  Opened the MRM2-to-SM(SU) hatches,   Installed the air ducts in SM, MRM2 and DC1,Supported the ground-commanded reactivation of the Russian Elektron O2 generator by monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating  [the gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup], andCompleted post-EVA MRM2 reconfiguration to nominal.  Meanwhile, FE-5 Nespoli & FE-6 Coleman conducted the 90-minute HTV EVA tasks review.  Before the EVA, Paolo installed both the FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack) and CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) alignment guides to protect the PaRIS (Passive Rack isolation System) against disturbances.  Afterwards, Nespoli undertook a session with the U.S. PFE (Periodic Fitness Evaluation) protocol as subject, a monthly 1.5-hr. procedure which checks up on BP (blood pressure) & ECG (electrocardiogram) during programmed exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer in the US Lab.  Readings were taken with the BP/ECG equipment and the HRM (heart rate monitor) watch with its radio transmitter.  Coleman assisted as Operator/CMO.     [BP/ECG provides automated noninvasive systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements while also monitoring and displaying accurate heart rates on a continual basis at rest and during exercise.]   Cady Coleman concluded her 2nd ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity (~12:30pm EST).   Data download from all devices to the HRF (Human Research Function) PC1 laptop will be scheduled later.     [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres/BP is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.]  Paolo & Cady filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).      [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  Activities completed by Cady Coleman included –  “Degassing” another CWC-I (Contingency Water Containers-Iodine, #2004), to remove any free air bubbles that may have been ingested since its last use.  This has become necessary since the water in the bag is reaching its expiration date and needs to be used;Activating & checking out the ELT (Experiment Laptop Terminal) in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), including cleaning the air inlet & outlet and checking for noise,Removing the MICAST (Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive & Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions) 7 sample cartridge in the newly set up SQF (Solidification & Quenching Furnace) in the MSL (Materials Science Laboratory), andRemoved & replaced the air hose and LI (Liquid Indicator) in the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment), for which Paolo Nespoli had gathered the necessary equipment earlier today.  Before sleeptime, FE-2 Skripochka will set up the Russian MBI-12 payload and start his 9th Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  The non-EVA, non-isolated crewmembers FE-5 & FE-6 worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the ARED advanced resistive exerciser and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded today were San Salvador, El Salvador (Night Target:  A review of the database indicates several day images of San Salvador, but no images taken during the night.  ISS crossed over the city just before sunrise, but it should have been still be dark enough for night imagery.  The city is bounded by Lago de Llopango to the east and Volcan San Salvador to the west), Western Australian Coastal City Lights (Night Target:  CEO researchers are interested in the intensity and detectability of night city lights along the coastal cities of Western Australia.  As ISS crossed the coast on the ascending pass, the crew was to look immediately to the left of track, Bunbury was closer to the orbit track.  Further up the coast was the city of Perth.  Looking to the right of track, along Western Australia’s southern coast the crew should have been able to detect Albany), and Colombo, Sri Lanka (Night Target:  A review of the database indicates very few day images of Colombo, the capital city of Sri Lanka.  None of the images are from ISS, and there are no night images of the city.  Looking slightly left of track along the coast).  