01-29-2011January 29, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/29/11  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Progress 41P arrival.    Sleep cycle shift:  To accommodate the docking of the new cargo ship Progress M-09M/41P (#409) tonight at ~9:39pm EST, crew wake/sleep cycle changes are in effect, featuring today a 4-hr “nap” & 30-min “snack”, and a low-activity Saturday.  Wake –  4:30am EST (this morning, delayed 3.5 hrs)Lunch – 10:00am-11:00amMidday nap – 11:00am-3:00pmSnack – 6:30pm-7:00pmSleep –  3:30am (tomorrow morning, 1/30) for a very long “sleep”Wake – 1:00am (Monday, 1/31, returning to “normal”).   FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Before sleeptime tomorrow morning, Dmitri will inspect the filters again, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  CDR Scott Kelly continued another week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 7th session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Also at wake-up, Kelly, FE-5 Nespoli & FE-6 Coleman performed another session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.      [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift (therefore, for the next sleep shift sequence RST is scheduled twice daily. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Scott, Dmitri, Paolo & Cady completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  Kondratyev completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.]  Later, Dmitri also performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.  At ~9:30am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  Cady Coleman initiated another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.    [This was the 13th session with the replaced GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 7 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop (due to a software glitch, the software needs to be opened, closed, and then reopened in order to ensure good communication between GC/DMS and SSC-12).  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  Nespoli unstowed and prepared the equipment for his 3rd sessions of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.     [Paolo retrieved controlled diet menu items, assembled daily consumables, and pre-positioned them to ensure successful completion of ProK Controlled Diet.]  Paolo & Cady filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).      [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise (for CDR, FE-5, FE-6) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-5), TVIS treadmill (FE-1), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, F-4, FE-5, FE-6) and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6).  Exercise for FE-1, FE-2 & FE-4 was reduced today due to the Progress docking activities.   At ~5:25am, Paolo powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 5:30am conducted a ham radio session with students at "Alessandro Cialdi" school in Civitavecchia, Rome, Italy.      CDR, FE-5 & FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Cady at ~7:45am, Paolo at ~8:40am, Scott at ~11:50am EST.  After their 4-hr “midday nap”, the crewmembers make final preparations for the arrival of Progress M-09M/41P, tonight at ~9:39pm, at the DC1 nadir port:  Kelly & Kondratyev set up the Ku-band video “scheme” for covering the Progress docking.      [Scott activates the FGB-based A31p SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop for the TV conversion to NTSC & Ku-band of the RS (Russian Segment) video signal from the SONY HDV camera via the MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoder from FGB & SM (Service Module), in order to downlink “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.  Dima meanwhile sets up and checks out the RSS1 (SSC-1) laptop at the TsP (Central post) for monitoring the imagery during the MPEG-2 channel transmission.]  Coleman shuts down the amateur/ham radio equipment (~4:00pm) to prevent RF interference with the Progress KURS radio control system, while Kelly closes the protective shutters of the Lab, Kibo & Cupola science windows.  Also before docking, Skripochka will activate & verify proper operation of the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM for taking structural dynamics data during the Progress 41P docking.  The data are later copied to a USB stick, the archive cleared, and the data downlinked to the ground.     [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]  Automated approach & docking will be monitored from the SM by Kaleri & Skripochka on the TORU manual teleoperated rendezvous & docking system in case automated control is aborted.  After the cargo ship’s docking, Alex & Dmitri shut off the TORU, and reconfigure the STTS telephone/telegraph subsystem to normal ops.     [The "Voskhod-M" STTS enables telephone communications between the SM, FGB, DC-1 and USOS, and also with users on the ground over VHF channels selected by an operator at an SM comm panel, via STTS antennas on the SM’s outside.  There are six comm panels in the SM with pushbuttons for accessing any of three audio channels, plus an intercom channel.  Other modes of the STTS include telegraphy (teletype), EVA voice, emergency alarms, Packet/Email, and TORU docking support].  The crewmembers then conduct the standard one-hour leak checking of the docking vestibule and fuel/oxidizer transfer line interface between Progress and the SM Transfer Compartment.  Later today, the Russian crewmembers –  Open the hatches (~1:30am) and install the QD (quick disconnect) screw clamps (BZV) of the docking & internal transfer mechanism (SSVP) to rigidize the coupling; Perform the standard air sampling inside Progress with the Russian AK-1M air sampler; Power down the spacecraft and installing the ventilation/heating air duct; Take photographs of the internal docking surfaces for subsequent downlinking, andDismantle the docking mechanism (StM, Stykovochnovo mekhanizma) between the cargo ship and the DC1.  [The StM is the "classic" probe-and-cone type, consisting of an active docking assembly (ASA) with a probe (SSh), which fits into the cone (SK) on the passive docking assembly (PSA) for initial soft dock and subsequent retraction to hard dock.  The ASA is mounted on the Progress' cargo module (GrO), while the PSA sits on the docking ports of the SM, FGB and DC-1.]   FE-4 will also service the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet, downloading structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer before undocking to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.      [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.]  Afterwards, Dmitri supports the ground-commanded reactivation of the Russian Elektron O2 generator by monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.     [Elektron was turned off by the ground during the docking.  The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.]  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Six -- Week 10).  2D NANO Template (JAXA):    No report.  3D SPACE:    “Thanks Paolo and Cady for the performance of your second session on 01/21!  And thanks for your feedback related to the session.”  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     No report.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):     No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):     No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for   Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   CB cleanup in the Saibo Rack was performed on 12/22.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:      No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):      No report.  CFS-A (Fungi-A):   Awaiting ULF5 launch.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:     On 1/18, three test points were successfully performed with four counting towards the science matrix (one test point was skipped). The test points were performed with methanol fuel at a 1 atm chamber environment of 21% O2, 15% CO2, and 64% N2. None of the test points used the support fiber. •  Test #1 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm. The droplet had a large piece of debris floating in it. The debris was clearly visible in the downlink video. The deployment was good with little residual velocity. The flame burned dim blue for 15 - 20 sec. There was a large disruption at the end that caused flame extinction, undoubtedly influenced (or likely caused) by the debris. •  Test #2 - Droplet diameter of 3 mm. The needles looked free of debris. The droplet had no debris, but instead it looked like a film was on the surface of the droplet. The deployment was relatively good, but the droplet likely drifted out of camera view. The droplet burned for 15 - 20 sec with a dim blue flame before what appeared to be diffusive extinction. •  Test #3 - Droplet diameter of 3-4 mm. Once again, the needles looked clean, but the droplet still had what looked like a film on.  its surface. The deployment was good with a very long burn (~ 20 sec). There was no disruption, and the droplet burned with a dim blue flame before diffusive extinction.  When the MCDA CIA was powered and the needles moved together, there was a large and unmistakable piece of debris on the tip of one of the needles. When the fuel was dispensed for the first droplet, the debris became dislodged and visibly floated around the droplet. In light of these contamination issues, we will resume test points following the installation of the redesigned needles arriving on HTV2. This replacement is tentatively planned for Week 20.  A summary of preliminary MDCA/FLEX results to date will be uplinked as a separate message.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    No report.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.  DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.  DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.   DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS, ESA):    Acquiring science data with DOSTEL-2 detector. Monthly data downlink performed on 1/11.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Hobbies):      No report.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Kids in Space):   No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO GREENHOUSE (ESA):   No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    No report. . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.  EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.  EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    Space Bottle has been wrapped with Kapton tape and moved to the airlock.  This bottle will be exposed in space by ULF-5 shuttle EVA.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.  EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    No report.  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET-2 (JAXA):   No report.   FERULATE (JAXA):    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):     Activated for MVIS commissioning since 1/10.  MVIS commissioning part 2 completed well. Data downlink to be completed.  The Fluid Science Lab (FSL) Microgravity Vibration Isolation Subsystem (MVIS) is designed to allow experiments to be conducted in low gravity without interference from vibrations produced by the Space Station.  The MVIS will monitor the position of the core element of the FSL and is armed with an extremely sensitive accelerometer that can chart movement or vibration aboard the station.  It uses a magnetic field to suspend a container for experiments.  One of the future experiments for which MVIS could be used would be the FOAM-Coarsening experiment, where MVIS could be activated to provide an assessment of the sensitivity of foam coarsening to vibrations.”   FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    “First sample collections for Nespoli and Coleman were completed on 1/14.  The samples were inserted into MELFI about 1hr after collection.”  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):     RAIDS will continue to collect secondary science data while in eclipse.  The plan is to continue troubleshooting the scan platform power while RAIDS is not collecting secondary science data.   HICO has taken 2485 images to date. The most recent HICO images taken include images of Bahamas, Railroad Valley Playa in Nevada and the southern part of Lake Baikal in Russia.  HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):    No report.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     “Cady, the ICV team is making progress on determining the cause and remedy for the problems you experienced with the Cardiopres.  We hope to give you the story within the next couple of weeks.”  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     “Paolo, Cady: Thank you for making the successful contacts with Italy, Poland and Kentucky schools this week. You have completed 11 passes this year and 576 have been completed for the program.”   IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni Exp (JAXA):    24th run was completed on 12/22.  Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    Cassette Exchange and checkout task was completed on 1/26.  UVP experiment is planned to start on 2/1.  C/O status:  As the result of a brief assessment, the Marangoni team confirmed that: - oil leak amount was about 3cc; enough amount of oil remained in the cassette to proceed with the tests.  There was an allowable amount of tracers in the oil to start experiment. - on 1/27, a 25mm liquid bridge was formed successfully. (GREAT NEWS!!!)  However, for the long liquid bridge tests, there is a risk of oil dripping from the disk edge as well as the possibility of the bridge breaking with g-jitters. The team will assess experiment parameters for each run.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Currently acquiring nominal science data in Kibo.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    No report.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-2 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally.   MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.  MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 3 (JAXA):    No report.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:     “Scott, the Nutrition team would like to thank you for the great work and a successful FD120 session this week.  You only have one Nutrition sample collection left to go, scheduled around FD180.”   PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report.  PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:     No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA):    No report.  RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Scott, Paolo and Cady: thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test!”  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report.  SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Scott:  Thank you for completing another week of Sleep logs this week.  As a reminder, the last log entry has been scheduled for Monday due to the sleep shift in your schedule.  We have also scheduled the next Actiwatch download for Monday and will be downlinking the Sleeplog database file.”  SMILES (JAXA):   Recooling mode #12.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   Currently out of Sun Visibility window.  SOLAR kept in Idle mode.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    The team has been happy to hear that a third of the SOLO food containers could be located. Thanks!  Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report.  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):     No report.  SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.   VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring science data with NorAIS receiver.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    No report.  VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    Through 1/26, the ground received 11,884 of ISS CEO frames for review and cataloging.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following target with a time corresponding to that of our daily CEO Target Request list:  Colombo, Sri Lanka - good nighttime imagery acquired of this coastal city, and Mexico City, Mexico at night - excellent, crisp views of this megacity, we remain hopeful that you acquired the requested daylight views of this target that day for comparisons as well.  Your picturesque view of snow-covered Onekotan Island in the Kuril Islands of the Russian Federation was published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website this past weekend (copy of the article can be found under the tab labeled "CEO" on this worksheet).  Once again, thanks for acquiring such beautiful imagery on your own time!”  CEO targets uploaded today were Tripoli, Libya (Day Target:  ISS had a nadir pass over this capital city of 1.69 million that has been occupied since its founding in the 7th century BC.  It lies on a gentle bulge in the Libyan coastline.  Daylight imagery from ISS will nicely complement ISS night imagery of the city taken on January 10), St. Paul Rocks islets, Brazil (Day Target - HMS Beagle Site: Darwin and the Beagle briefly visited this isolated, equatorial Atlantic site in early February of 1832.  This tiny group of islets and rocks is also known as the Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago.  The islands are of particular interest to geologists as they expose rocks associated with the Earth's mantle above sea level), Lahore, Pakistan (Night Target:  Looking slightly right of track for Pakistan’s second largest city.  There are no cataloged night images of Lahore in Pakistan), and Islamabad, Pakistan (Night Target:  Looking left of track for the capital of Pakistan.  There are no cataloged night images of Islamabad in the CEO database.)  