01-28-10January 28, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/28/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  At wake-up, FE-4 Kotov began his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also at wakeup, Kotov terminated his second experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  FE-1 Suraev started the 2nd part of the 5th onboard run of the Russian SSTV (Slow Scan TV) equipment of the MAI-75 experiment as part of OBR-3 (Obrazovanie-3, Education 3) ops, essentially a ham radio set-up with Kenwood TM D700 Transceiver and Kenwood VS-N1 (Visual Communicator) gear for downlinking photographic images of the overflown terrain to ground stations.  Later in the day, the radio session was terminated and the equipment closed out.  The third of the back-to-back sessions is scheduled tomorrow.    [The payload is named after the renowned MAI (Moscow Aviation Institute) whose reputation is based on the large number of famous aviators and rocket scientists that received their academic education here.  Among the alumni are Academicians and Corresponding Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences.  Over 100 General and Chief Designers earned their degree at MAI, with famous rocket scientists like Makeyev, Mishin, Nadiradze and Yangel.  MAI also fostered 20 Pilot-Cosmonauts, almost 100 famous test pilots, Heroes of the Soviet Union and Russia.  The amateur radio (ham) equipment aboard the ISS for downlinking SSTV imagery is a MAI product.]  Continuing the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, Suraev used a vacuum cleaner and soft brush to clean the clean the “Group B” fan screens in the SM and the grilles of interior panels 116, 316, 231 in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok).  Kotov did his share by cleaning the “Group B3” fan screens VV1RO & VV2RO in the SM later in the day.  Kotov also attended to the current experiment session with the Russian/German TEKh-20 Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall/PK-3+) payload, activating the turbo pump in the Service Module (SM)’s Transfer Compartment (PkhO) for keeping the vacuum chamber (ZB) in the SM Work Compartment (RO) evacuated.  Maxim took documentary photography.  The turbo pump will be deactivated again at ~4:25pm, shortly before sleeptime.    [Main objective of PK-3 is to study wave propagation and dispersion ratio in a dust plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber, at a specified power of HF discharge, pressure, and a varied number of particles.]  In preparation for a new EarthKAM session in N2 (Node-2), FE-6 Creamer relocated the Ku-band power supply temporarily from the Lab (loc. LAB1) to N2.  Maxim Suraev had another hour set aside for more troubleshooting of the failed Vozdukh CO2 removal assembly, today testing the vacuum pump pressure of the suspect BU VN Vacuum Pump Control Unit with the VK-316M vacuum pressure gauge.    [On 1/22, Vozdukh had shown as failed at 9:49am EST.  It was placed into the initial configuration and reactivated in Manual Mode 5 at 12:43pm, but it failed again at 1:00pm.  On 1/24, Vozdukh was reactivated per "standard method" in the initial position at 7:53am and failed again at 8:11am.  The crew reported that the BVK1 valve was in between the purification and closed positions after failure.  The crew also reported that when they deactivated the system, the VN vacuum pump red light was on.  SOZh/ECLSS specialists reported that they are still assessing the issue and do not have any recommendations yet.  On 1/25, Vozdukh was reactivated again at 5:15am and it failed at 5:39am. TsUP/Moscow is still unsure of the nature of these failures and will continue troubleshooting.]  Oleg Kotov terminated the recharge of the DZZ-13 battery (AIP-01), initiated yesterday, and later conducted another sun-glint observation session with the new Russian DZZ-13 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) science experiment, using the hand-held spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor) from SM window #2 and later downlinking data.  The equipment was then re-stowed.     [RUSALKA ops involve calibration and tests of research equipment relating to the Sun and the Earth's limb at sunset (atmosphere lighted).  To be tested are the procedure for remote determination of Methane (CH4) & Carbon Dioxide (CO2) content in the atmosphere (in the First Phase), measurement of CH4 & CO2 content in the atmosphere and reception of data on NI2 and NI4 content over the territories subjected to natural and technogenic effects, reception of sufficient data on seasonal dependencies of tropospheric parameters being studied (in the Second Phase).  Equipment used:  Rusalka monoblock, Nikon D2X(s) digital photo camera; AF VR Nikkor ED 80-400f/4.5-5.6D lens with ultraviolet filter, bracket for attachment to the window, and Rusalka-Accessories set.  Support hardware: Device TIUS /DKShG/PNSK, Laptop RSK1, and Software Package loading disk.]  In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Jeff Williams & TJ Creamer worked together for several hours on Part 1 of the CDRA IFM (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly / Inflight Maintenance), which is to receive a new #1 adsorbent bed.  Today, Jeff & TJ removed the CDRA from the LAB AR (Atmosphere Revitalization) rack with its jumpers.  Open fluid & air connections were capped with protective bags, and removed components were attached to the adsorbent Bed 201, which was then dismounted.  After conclusion of the CDRA activities, Soichi Noguchi replaced the JPM CQ (Crew Quarters) structural “bumpout” component which he had removed earlier in the day to allow rotation of the AR Rack out of its nominal position.  Kotov & Suraev checked out MBS hard-line communications from Soyuz TMA-17/21S, first unstowing and connecting a drag-through extension cable between 21S and the FGB GA comm panel, with a PTT (push-to-talk) and headset plugged into the GA comm panel, then testing two-way communications between Soyuz and TsUP-Moscow in the MBS Channel over S/G1 (Space-to-Ground 1).    [Reason for the comm checks are issues between Soyuz vehicle and the FGB.  Root cause unknown at this time.]  On the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab, TJ removed the alignment guides to allow activation of the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) by the ground for FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility) operations requiring a microgravity environment.  In the US Lab, Jeff Williams performed an oxygen purge on an uninstalled hydrogen sensor ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit, #1005) for the OGS (Oxygen Generator System) using a HOPA (Hydrogen Sensor ORU Purge Adapter) from P1 rack stowage.  Continuing MSL (Microgravity Science Laboratory) support activities, the FE-6 took out the used SCA (Sample Cartridge Assembly) and replaced it with a fresh test sample (MICAST #6).     [The ESA/NASA multi-user MSL allows research with diverse EMs (Experiment Modules) so that many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied in micro-G to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.  MSRR (Materials Science Research Rack) experiments will be coordinated by international teams that share different parts of the samples.  There are 25 investigators on three research teams participating in the first of these investigations.]  Noguchi & Creamer conducted a session (the second for both of them) with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and performing the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.     [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]  The FE-5 visually inspected and then activated the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) facility to support the subsequent removal operation.  With cabin video turned on, Noguchi removed and stowed the hardware of the ESA science payload SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument / Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids), then turned off the MSG.  Soichi set up the HRF1 WS2 (Human Research Facility 1 / Workstation 2) and performed a functional checkout on the laptop, with real-time data from WS2 & rack plus camera video required on the ground.  Later, WS2 was powered down and decabled.  In the JAXA JPM, FE-5 Noguchi took documentary photography of the active Dewey’s Forest science payload, which requires periodic watering for the cultivation of its PUs (Plant Units).     [Dewey’s Forest, one of the Japanese educational payloads, is intended to show how gravity controls the laws of nature and influences our ways of thinking. The project is “a catalyst to rediscover our relationship with plants on the ground and the age-old history of our gardens.”]  Later, Soichi had ~30 min for another JAXA EPO (Educational Payload Operation), EPO-4/Paper Craft2 Making, for which he printed out printed folding patterns and then made traditional Japanese Origami figures.  In the SM, FE-1 Suraev did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Maxim also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Shortly before sleep time, Suraev will set up the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his eighth experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-4).  At ~1:45am EST, Soichi powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 1:50am conducted a ham radio session with students at Morioka Children's Museum of Science, Morioka, Iwate, Japan.  At ~7:15am, Noguchi supported a JAXA PAO TV event with students at Hamada-Higashi Junior High School in Japan.  Water Recovery Issues:   ISS has experienced issues with the US Regen ECLSS system.  Assessments indicate that the root cause is likely air in the lines causing blockage for both the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) and WHC (Waste & Hygiene Container) flush tank.  WHC use has been recovered this morning, and there is enough water in the flush tank to last 4-10 days of use.  PWD troubleshooting procedures are in work to remove air from system.  In the meantime, the crew continues to make use of RS potable water (as in the “old days”).  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Valletta, Malta (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over the capital city of this island nation.  Some scattered cloud cover may have been present.  The city is located near an embayment on the northeastern coast of the largest island in the Malta archipelago.  Overlapping mapping frames of the city were requested), and Andorra la Vella, Andorra (a break in the cloud cover over Europe was predicted at the time of this overpass, providing an opportunity to photograph this capital city.  The city is located in the eastern Pyrenees Mountains between France and Spain, and is the highest capital in Europe.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested).  