01-23-2011January 23, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/23/11  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – Crew rest day.   Ahead: Week 10 of Increment 26.   FE-1 Kaleri conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Alex will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  At wake-up, FE-4 Kondratyev terminated his 4th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]   Scott, Oleg, Alex, Dmitri, Paolo & Cady completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  As part of uborka house cleaning, Sasha, Oleg & Dima conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille and Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM (Service Module).  Kaleri completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].  Scott Kelly undertook the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on airway issues.  [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]   After their Orlan EVA-27 on 1/21, Skripochka & Kondratyev today spent another hour on checking out their Orlan-MK spacesuits.  Oleg later relocated the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) payload from the MRM2 Poisk module to the DC1 Docking Compartment, then activated & verified proper operation of the experiment for taking structural dynamics data during tonight’s Progress M-08M/40P undocking (~7:40pm EST).      [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]  Also in preparation for the cargo ship departure, FE-5 Nespoli powered down the amateur/ham radio equipment in the SM and later closed the protective shutters of the US Lab, Node-3/Cupola and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  At ~7:45am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  Before sleeptime, Sasha Kaleri will set up the Russian MBI-12 payload and start his 9th Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  CDR, FE-2 & FE-5 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Oleg at ~10:15am, Paolo at ~12:15Pm, Scott at ~3:15pm EST.  FE-2 & FE-4 were scheduled for their post-EVA PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Oleg at ~12:15pm, Dima at ~1:30pm.  The six crewmembers worked out with an abbreviated physical exercise regimen on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5)and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).     [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  HTV2 Flight Day 1 Summary:   HTV2 lifted off on time yesterday (1/22) at 12:37:57am EST.  Ascent and the upper stage burn were nominal.  Separation from the HII-B upper stage occurred at 12:53:11am.  The HTV successfully performed three burns today, per the plan:  PM1 began at 1/22/8:08:09am and had a dV of 34.1 m/s (performed using Main Engines).  M1 began at 1/22/9:41:02am and had a dV of 2.9 m/s (performed using Main Engines).  PM1' began at 1/22/10:26:05am and had a dV of 6.1 m/s (performed using Main Engines).    The burns raised the HTV semi-major axis by approximately 74 km and set up the initial phasing for the rendezvous.  HTV is now in a 315 x 320 km orbit.  As of 1/22/11:00am, HTV was 20,600 km ahead of and 30 to 35 km below ISS, and phasing away at 338 km/rev.  The post-burn trajectory has been screened for debris and is currently clear of conjunctions.  RCS and Main Engines thruster testing and leak checks were performed on both strings; all systems are nominal.  GPS navigation was checked out and is performing nominally.  Progress M-08M/40P, currently docked at DC1 Nadir, is scheduled to undock today at 5:35pm.  No CEO targets uploaded for today.  