
Story Time from Space:  Peake read “Science on the Space Station” from the book Max Goes to the Space Station,” discussed the subject on camera and demonstrated the scientific principles involved.  Kelly obtained pictures of Peake while he was reading the book with the Cupola in the background.  The video recording will be downlinked to the ground and used for educational purposes.
 
Sleep Actiwatch Downlink and Configuration:  Kelly downloaded data from his and Kornienko’s Actiwatch Spectrums and then configured the devices to continue collecting data.  The actiwatches have a photodiode that measures ambient light and an accelerometer to measure the movement of the arm or leg that the watch is attached to.  The actiwatch data recorded on the watch supports the Sleep ISS-12 experiment, which assesses the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Low Earth Orbiting Navigation Experiment for Spacecraft Testing Autonomous Rendezvous and Docking (LONESTAR):  Peake depressurized and vented the JEM Airlock today in preparation for the deploy of the LONESTAR tomorrow.  LONESTAR contains satellites AggieSat4 (built by Texas A&M University students) and Bevo-2 (built by University of Texas students).  After deploy away from the ISS, AggieSat4 ejects the BEVO-2 satellite.  Both satellites then perform cross-linking communications, exchange data, link to GPS, and transmit to ground radio stations.  LONESTAR is used to further develop and refines autonomous navigation, rendezvous and docking software and procedures.  Future NASA missions to destinations such as asteroids and other celestial bodies require the use of autonomous navigation systems.
 
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Cargo Operations:  All three USOS Crew continued transferring Cygnus cargo to ISS today. As of yesterday afternoon, approximately 17 hours remain to be completed.  Cygnus is scheduled to unberth from ISS on February 19th.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Internal Port Camera:  Peake worked to relocate the JEM internal port camera slightly lower from its current position over the JEM Airlock. The new position will avoid interference with upcoming Stowage Frame installation.
 
Power Strip (PS)-120 Junction Box Installation:  Peak has installed a PS-120 Junction Box within the JEM today. Once installed, he changed the power source for the Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST) from Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) to the newly installed junction box.
 
Sound Level Measurements and Acoustic Blanket:  Kopra configured and checked out a new Sound Level Meter, then obtained sound level measurements in Node 3.  There was not sufficient time to complete the Acoustic Blanket installation today, therefore the activity will be deferred to an alternate day.  The two Acoustic Blankets that were to be installed today were intended to reduce the noise coming from Treadmill 2 (T2), especially near the runner’s head.
 
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

JEM System Laptop Terminal Reboot
WRS Water Sample Analysis
JEMAL – Depress and Vent
WRM. Condensate Pumping Initiation
RGN – recycle tank drain into EDV
EVA Medical Kit Configuration
Brine and urine transfer from EDV-U to Progress 429 (SM Aft) Rodnik H2O Tank and Flushing Connector
JPM – Internal camera relocation
Photo/TV Battery Charge Initiation
Scheduled Maintenance of Compound Specific Analyzer- Combustion Products (CSA-CP)
Checkout of BETA-08 Data Output Device (УСИ) using Gamma-1M Equipment
WRM.  Terminate Condensate Pumping
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Food Frequency Questionnaire
Telemetry checkout of Orlan systems, Orlan interface unit (БСС), comm, and biomed parameters
JEM – Installation of PS-120 Junction Box
Comm reconfig into initial after Orlan Comm. Check
Specific EVA Procedures Study
Cygnus Cargo Operations
DC1 EV hatch1 pusher checkout
JEMAL – Verifying depressurization complete
ESA Weekly Crew Conference
JEM Airlock Depressurization and Vent Confirmation
Story Time (ST) – Photography
Photo/Video Equipment Battery Changeout
TOCA Data Recording
ALGOMETRIA. Search and stowage of TTA-Data No.05 data storage device
Cygnus Cargo Operations
IMS and Stowage Conference
Checkout of Sound Level Meter
SLEEP – Configuration and data download
Sound level measurements
СОЖ Maintenance
IMS Delta File Prep
Preventive Maintenance of FS1 Laptop (Cleaning and rebooting)
BRI Monthly Maintenance
Cygnus Cargo Operations
SLM Acoustic Blanket Install [Deferred]
Preventive Maintenance of SM АСП-О Hatch Sealing Mechanism and Progress 429 [АСА] Hatch door (SM Aft) before RS EVA
Progress 429 (SM Aft) Activation, Air Duct Removal
Removal of ССВП Screw Clamps from SM Aft and MPEG2 Video Recording of SM Aft – Progress 429 interface.Video downlink via OCA
ALGOMETRIA. Experiment Ops
SM Aft – Progress 429 Hatch Closure
ПрК-СУ and СУ – ТГК 429 (SM Aft) Hatch Leak Check
SLM Data Transfer
Warning/Emergency Book Deployment
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Food Frequency Questionnaire
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
Cygnus – Cargo Operations Tagup
Terminate Photo/Video Battery Charge
JRNL – Journal Entry
COGNITION – Experiment Ops and Filling Questionnaire

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal System Commanding

 
