01-22-2010January 22, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/22/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Crew rest day.  At wake-up, FE-1 Suraev began his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by Maxim on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  CDR Williams & FE-6 Creamer continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), donning their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  TJ Creamer continued the NUTRITION/Repository/Pro K session with the 24-hr urine collections and closed out his Pro K monitored diet session & diet logging, then set up the hardware for his upcoming blood draw.    [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]  Suraev undertook the standard 30-min Shuttle RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) onboard familiarization training, his first, using a D2X digital still camera with 400mm lens and taking practice shots of ground features with images having 40-50% overlap and about 20 images in each sequence.  Afterwards, the FE-1 downlinked the obtained photographs for ground analysis.     [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the next Shuttle (STS-130/Endeavour/20A) on 2/9.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Endeavour, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]  The five-member crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  As part of the house cleaning, Maxim & Oleg conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning on Group E fan screens in SM and TsV2 in the FGB.  Additionally, Max checked the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter units of the SM’s and FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.  CDR Williams & FE-6 Creamer each performed a VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activity: -  Jeff setting up and video recording an EPO (Education Payload Operations) exercise with the EPO 655 Rotation Set, discussing & demonstrating principles of Center of Mass, Rotation, and Moments of Inertia, andTJ performing the FIR Fluids (Integrated Rack) activity deferred on 1/16 due to missing (and now found) WIP water hoses.   [After setting up the US camcorder for videoing his activities, TJ opened the lower & upper FIR doors, pulled out the Optics Bench and configured it by installing the LMM (Light Microscopy Module) WIP hoses for ground operation.  After closing up the FIR and activating two switches, Creamer notified POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center) that the rack was prepared for commanding via RPC (Remote Power Controller).  The activity concluded by the installation of the MRB (Microgravity Rack Barrier) on the front of the FIR.]  Working in the U.S. A/L (Airlock), FE-5 Noguchi initiated recharge on the first batch of EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) batteries in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly) for the upcoming three STS-130/20A spacewalks.  Later, in preparation for tomorrow’s relocation of PMA-3 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 3), Soichi installed the PCA (Pressure Control Assembly) at the PMA-3, then initiated depressurization of the PMA, followed by leak checking.    [Although PMA-3 pressure has been tracked as part of the bulkhead feedthroughs leak check, it must be ensured that the pressure is below 2mmHg before demating to protect the CBM (Common Berthing Mechanism) seals.  PMA-3 needs to be relocated from Node-1/Port to Node-2/Zenith in order to make way for STS-130/20A to install Node-3 in its place on Node-1/Port.  The relocation with the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) will be performed tomorrow (1/23).]   The FE-1 downlinked TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) structural dynamics measurements from yesterday’s Soyuz relocation and closed out the data take.  Suraev also downlinked the photo/video recordings taken of the relocation.  In the SM Zvezda module, Kotov performed the periodic downloading of accumulated log files from the Russian BSMM (Payload Matching Unit/computer) to the US OCA for downlink,  Oleg also did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  The CDR filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  At ~4:13am EST, Soichi powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 4:18am conducted a ham radio session with students at Minato Junior High School, Hachinohe, Aomori, Japan.  At ~5:00am, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.  At ~5:15am, Maxim & Oleg linked up with TsUP/Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS (Inventory Management System) tagup, discussing inventory & stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.  At ~8:05am, Soichi had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  At ~9:00am, all crewmembers convened for their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office (Steve Lindsey), via S-band S/G-2 audio & phone patch.  At ~9:50am, Jeff had his own periodic IMS stowage conference with stowage specialists at MCC-Houston.  At ~2:25pm, the ISS crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H via S-band/audio.    [S/G-2 (Space-to-Ground 2) phone patch via SSC (Station Support Computer).]  Jeff Williams donned the Glenn treadmill harness with installed transducer instrumentation (6th time for him), then activated the harness for his exercise run on the T2/COLBERT treadmill.     [Afterwards, the CDR downloaded the harness data and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).]  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-4).  WRM Update:  A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.     [The new card (22-0003H) lists 84 CWCs (1,962.3 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (16 CWCs with 566.9 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 217.2 L in 8 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 215.5 L in 5 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 1 bag with 23.0 L contains Wautersia, 1 bag with 43.6 L requires sample analysis & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (53 CWCs with ~980.4 L),  4. condensate water (1 bag with 28.1L [known leaker], 3 empty CWCs), and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (1 CWC with 20.2 L, 1 empty CWC).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  ISS Reboost:   This morning at 4:06am EST, the ISS successfully performed a reboost using the SM Main Engines.  The purpose of this reboost is to test the SM main engines prior to the larger reboost scheduled for 1/24.  The combination of these two reboosts will set up phasing for Progress 36P launch and several FD3 (Flight Day 3) rendezvous launch opportunities for STS-130/20A.  Burn duration was 54 sec, delta-V 1.02 m/s (3.35 ft/s), with a mean altitude gain of 1.77 km (0.86 nmi).  This was the first time in about a year that the SM engines have been used for reboost.  The second reboost with a delta-V of 2.8 m/s will have a duration of ~3 min and is scheduled for 1/24 at ~4:00am.    [After the reboost this morning, the crew noticed a metallic cylindrical object 4-5 cm long, 1 cm in diameter, floating freely immediately nadir and forward of ISS as viewed from the SM.  Photos were downlinked.]   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were St. Helena Island, Atlantic Ocean (HMS Beagle Site.  Weather was predicted to be clear over this South Atlantic island.  While the island is perhaps most famous as the final resting place of exiled French Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte, the island was also visited by Charles Darwin during his famous voyage of 1836.  Looking to the right of track for the target - overlapping mapping frames of the island were requested), Malabo, Equatorial Guinea (the capital city of Equatorial Guinea is located on the northern coast of Bioko Island, approximately 43 kilometers from the African mainland.  Looking slightly to the right of track for the target; overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), N'Djamena, Chad (N'Djamena is the capital and largest city of this large central African country.  The city is located to the right of track at the confluence of the Chari and Logone rivers.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), and Oasis Impact Crater, Libya (ISS had a nadir-viewing overpass of this 18 km-diameter impact crater.  The crater presents a well-defined circular structure against the surrounding desert landscape.  Overlapping mapping frames of the crater were requested).  