
ISS Reboost – Today, the ISS performed a reboost using the aft Progress 75P R&D thrusters. The purpose of this reboost is to set up the conditions for Progress 77P 33-Orbit rendezvous on February 15. The burn duration was 6 minutes 58 seconds with a Delta-V of 0.723 m/s.
Payloads
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM) – The APM was removed from its US Lab location and relocated to Node 3.  This hardware is routinely moved to different locations to allow monitoring of the particulate environment in those areas.  Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. The Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM) demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
CIR/ACME – The crew replaced a 40% O2/60% N2 gas bottle and a 100% CH2=CH2 gas bottle to allow the continuation of the BRE part 2 investigation. The Burning Rate Emulator (BRE) investigation is conducted in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) on the International Space Station (ISS), as part of the Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) project. In this fire safety study, the flammability of solid and liquid materials is simulated by burning gaseous fuels under key conditions corresponding to the solid and liquid materials. This technique has been demonstrated for a wide variety of materials in normal-gravity and could provide an efficient way to screen and select fire-resistant materials for use in spacecraft, if the technique is similarly effective in microgravity.
Time Perception – The crew set up the appropriate hardware and participated in a Time Perception science session. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time perception in microgravity is also fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. The Time Perception in Microgravity experiment quantifies the subjective changes in time perception in humans during and after long-duration exposure to microgravity.
Systems 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations – The crew continued preparations for next week’s Columbus Upgrades EVA on Wednesday, January 27th. The Columbus Ka-Band Antenna (COL KA) was prepared for EVA. EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) Helmet troubleshooting and installation for the Extra Vehicular Activity Helmet Interchangeable Portable (EHIP) Light was completed successfully this morning. Additionally, crew connected the Lab Ethernet Ext (W1985) cable associated with the External High Definition Cameras (EHDC) for Camera Port 3 (S1) and Camera Port 13 (Lab Starboard) to the Joint Station LAN (JSL) for the External Wireless Communication (EWC) system. Both CP3 and CP13 will have EHDCs installed on US EVA ISS Upgrades 2.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphic (DOUG) Review – The crew performed a visual review of the EVA using the Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphic (DOUG) software. This session allows the crew to view the step-by-step sequence of a specific EVA. Entire translation paths can be highlighted and displayed for review by crew members prior to performing an EVA.
In-flight Maintenance (IFM) External Television Camera Group (ETVCG) Bulb Remove and Replace (R&R) – The crew R&R’ed and tested two metal halide lamps bulbs. These light assemblies are used to illuminate sections of ISS during periods of darkness and support continuous operations.  After bulb failure, these assemblies can be removed and replaced during an Extra Vehicular Activity.
Completed Task List Activities:

WHC KTO REPLACE

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Attitude Control System (ACS) Motion Control System (MCS) Configuration for Reboost
PRO CIR Activation Commanding
Primary Power System (PPS) Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ) Lock
JEMRMS Small Fine Arm (SFA) Installation to SSE
Attitude Control System (ACS) Global Positioning System (GPS) Accelerometer Management

