
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Maintenance:  In preparation for CIR maintenance activities, Wilmore reviewed overview materials, set up and configured the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) and gathered tools.  The crew then removed the Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) from the CIR Combustion Chamber, and restrained it to the MWA Work Surface Area. Inside the MDCA CIA, the crew replaced the MDCA Igniter Tips and the MDCA Fiber Arm. On the front of the MDCA CIA, the MDCA Fuel Reservoir in Location 2 was replaced. Finally, the MDCA CIA was installed back into the CIR Combustion Chamber. 
Circadian Rhythms:  Cristoforetti completed her third 36 hour Circadian Rhythms session and removed the equipment. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers. 
Ocular Health:  Virts performed his flight day 60 Ocular Health ultrasound and cardiac sessions.  Cristoforetti helped perform ultrasound scans on the eyes of Virts. The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. Cristoforetti helped Virts conduct a cardiac echo as part of the Ocular Health data collection. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixtures (CSLM)-4:  Virts processed the third of six sample processing units (SPU) and started to configure the fourth SPU.  For each run, the crew will configure valves and connections to vent the SPU and water lines, start the automated processing sequence, transfer experiment data and exchange the processed SPU with a new one after each sample run.  During configuration of the fourth SPU, CSLM experienced an issue.  The ground prepared a troubleshooting procedure which Virts was able to successfully execute.  Teams are planning to execute sample 4 tomorrow.  CSLM-4 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount (low volume fraction) of tin branch-like (i.e., dendritic) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature (i.e., isothermal) conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.
Human Research Facility Rack HRF)-2 Supply Kit Resupply:   Cristoforetti demated umbilicals to allow rotation of a Columbus rack to gain access to the HRF Supply Kit stow location.  The crew removed expired limited life items, re-stocked HRF supplies, took and downlinked photos. The rack was rotated to its original configuration and umbilicals mated.  
SpaceX-5 Dragon Cargo Transfer:  Cristoforetti continued with SpaceX-5 Dragon cargo operations. The crew has completed ~40 hours of the estimated 65 hours needed to unpack then pack Dragon cargo.  As of today, all cargo has been unloaded from the Dragon.  The crew is scheduled to begin loading Dragon on Monday, although they may elect to do some loading over the weekend.  A large percentage of the SpaceX cargo operations completed so far has been worked via the task list rather than as scheduled time during the crew work day.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


CSLM2 – Preparation Ops
CRHYT – Deinstrumentation and Cleaning
USND2 – Hardware Setup and Activation
Acoustic Dosimeter Setup
MDCA – Big Picture Overview
IMS Tagup (S-band)
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
CIR – Hardware Gathering
Ocular Health (OH) – Ultrasound Scan
Vacuum Pressure Gauge Accuracy Check / r/g 7780
VIRTUAL. Experiment Ops / r/g 7782
Ocular Health (OH) – Ultrasound Post Exam & Data Export
MICROBS1 – Equipment Setup
Recycle Tank Fill
MDCA – Preparation
Air Heater Fan (БВН) Screen Cleaning in ТК 714 ОН – Cardiac Scan (Subject)
CIR – Video Setup and Rack Doors Open
Ocular Health (OH) – Nominal Operations Assistance
MDCA Hardware Replacement
Microbial Air Sampling (medium 1) – medium 1 analysis, locations 9 -16 / r/g 7767
EXPANDER Exercise
Cryogem-03 Refrigerator Stowage / r/g 7767
Psychological Evaluation Program (WinSCAT)
Cleaning FGB panel vent screens (116, 316, 231, 431)
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
Physical Fitness Evaluation (on treadmill)+ r/g 7781
Life On The Station Photo and Video / r/g 7290
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Food Frequency Questionnaire [Deferred]
Treadmill Т2 Monthly Inspection
CIR – CIR Front End Cap & Rack Doors Closure
CSLM2-SPU – Data Transfer
VIBROLAB. Routing БКС.  / r/g 7764
BAR Experiment Ops. / r/g 7775
CIR – Hardware Gathering
CSLM2 – Crew verifies that data transfer was successful
COL1F2 – Stowage Relocation
MAGVEC – Disconnecting Equipment
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Food Frequency Questionnaire
Respiratory Support Pack Checkout
HRF – Hardware Removal and Relocation
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
VIBROLAB. СУБА and Payload Complement (КЦН) Cable Connections. / r/g 7764
VIBROLAB. Photography / r/g 7765
Life On The Station Photo and Video / r/g 7290
VIBROLAB. Connecting cable 17КС.42Ю8242А-9270 to monitor Sinus-Accord P/L Telemetry. / r/g 7764
VIBROLAB. Photography / r/g 7765
MAGVEC – Reconnecting Equipment Umbilicals
VIBROLAB. Copy and Downlink Data / r/g 7765
Recycle Tank Fill
RGN – Initiate drain into EDV
COL1F2 – Returning Rack Stowage
ISS Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Computer Based Training (CBT)
ISS HOMEPAGE – Training
RGN – Terminate drain into EDV
24-hour Holter monitoring (terminate) / r/g 7766
Photography of ТК 715 СА Windows, plane 2 / r/g 7783
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
CSLM2 – Activation in the required mode [Deferred]

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted


Nominal Commanding

