
Payloads
Capillary Structures: The crew performed the Capillary Structures Sorbent Contactor operations that demonstrates flow through two microgravity air-liquid contractors in series. Current life-support systems on the ISS require special equipment to separate liquids and gases, including rotating or moving devices that could cause contamination if they break or fail. The Capillary Structures for Exploration Life Support (Capillary Structures) investigation studies a new method using structures of specific shapes to manage fluid and gas mixtures. The investigation studies water recycling and carbon dioxide removal, benefiting future efforts to design lightweight, more reliable life support systems for future space missions.
Actiwatch Plus: The crew attached the Actiwatch Plus kit to the HRF Payload Drawer to allow ground teams to download data and to charge the units. The Actiwatch is a waterproof, nonintrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. The device contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data are stored in nonvolatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Systems 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew continued preparations for the upcoming ISS Upgrades II EVA on Monday, February 1. They configured the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long life Battery (LLB) for charging and reviewed procedures for the EVA. The crew also took additional photos of the EVA gloves per Engineering request.
Post- EVA Periodic Health Exam (PHS): Today the crew completed a health evaluation. During the evaluation, vital signs are obtained and an ear examination is conducted by taking images of the tympanic membranes and the external ear. The data and imagery is then downlinked for review by a medical specialist. PHS exams are conducted within 24 hours of the conclusion of an EVA.
Completed Task List Activities:

Wanted WetLab-2 Gene Sampler Kit

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEMRMS Main Arm (MA) Maneuver to JEF GF1 Grapple
Reconfigure PVTCS to Modified Fluid DeadBand (MOD FDB) mode [ACTIVE]
PRO CIR Activation Commanding
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Walkoff Maneuver

