01-22-2011January 22, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/22/11  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – Shortened day (by 5 hrs): Wake – 6:00am; sleep – 4:30pm (return to normal).    HTV 2 (H-II Transfer Vehicle) Launch: The HTV2 launched successfully from the Tanegashima Space Center in Japan at 12:38 am EST.  HTV2 activation and initial checkout were completed successfully after launch.  HTV2 capture is scheduled for 7:15 am EST and berthing at 10:40 am on 1/27.  FE-1 Kaleri conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Alex will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  At wake-up, FE-2 Skripochka terminated his 9th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]   At wake-up, CDR Scott Kelly, FE-5 Paolo Nespoli & FE-6 Cady Coleman completed their 7th post-sleep shift session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Scott performed the periodic (monthly) battery check and reboot of all active US PCS (Portable Computer System) laptops in Lab, A/L (Airlock), CUP (Node-3 Cupola), SM and of the COL PWS (Columbus Orbital Laboratory Portable Workstation) laptops, recording the battery state of charge of each of them.  Working periodic maintenance on the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), FE-6 Coleman removed & replaced both cable arm ropes, then evacuated its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition & sensor calibration.  Kaleri completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].  FE-1 also performed the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.  Final post-EVA closeout activities by Skripochka & Kondratyev were –  Set up the Orlan-MK suits, gloves, umbilicals and BSS interface units for drying out.    Returning the EVA emergency first-aid medical packs, staged temporarily in the PkhO (Transfer Compartment) and DC1, to their original stowage sites in the SM med locker and Soyuz spacecraft,Removing the BNP #3 (portable air repress bottle 3) from the SM RO for stowage;Downloading the EVA photographs from the NIKON D2Xs cameras to the SSC-15 (Station Support Computer 15) U drive for subsequent OCA downlink;Setting up the first Orlan-MK 825-M3 battery pack for discharge and starting discharge,Taking radiation readings from the Orlan-carried PILLE dosimeters,Refilling the Orlan feedwater bladders,Checking out the Orlan-MK spacesuits, andCompleting Orlan and BSS Orlan Interface Unit equipment storage activities.  At ~9:30am, Cady Coleman had her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  Before sleeptime, Dmitri sets up the Russian MBI-12 payload and starts his 4th Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  The six crewmembers worked out with an abbreviated physical exercise regimen on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-4, FE-6) and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5).     [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Six -- Week 9).  2D NANO Template (JAXA):    No report.  3D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     No report.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):     No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):     “The 1st sampling for Nespoli was started on 1/5 and completed on 1/6.  The data has been downlinked for analysis.  Your next BioRhythms activity will be your FD75 (+/-7 days) session.”  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for   Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   CB cleanup in the Saibo Rack was performed on 12/22.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:      No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):      “Cady: Thank you for performing the "bubble check" run for the ICF2 vessel on Tuesday.  The tests didn't go exactly as we had expected, however we were still able to get some interesting data!  We didn't anticipate the bubbles would be so difficult to generate in ICF2, as the ICF1 vessel (i.e. the one you chose to use for "The Talk" segment) was fairly easy to generate bubbles.  Our research interest is to assess this geometry to passively separate gas from liquid in microgravity conditions.  We think we got at least 2-3 good tests in which you were able to generate 2-3 large bubbles.  Your willingness to try different shake methods and intensities were greatly appreciated and is exactly the kind of flexibility we're looking for in these kind of experiments. We look forward to working with you in the future. Thanks again!”  CFS-A (Fungi-A):   Awaiting ULF5 launch.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    No report.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.  DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    2 solidifications were performed this week.  The science objectives for week 17 were reached.  Declic will be deactivated on 1/25 and the next run will start on 2/3.  DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.   DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS, ESA):    Acquiring science data with DOSTEL-2 detector. Monthly data downlink performed on 1/11.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    On 1/17 EarthKAM captured the first image of the Earth commanded by a payload from inside the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).  This is also the first use of the T61p Laptop and D2Xs camera by EarthKAM.   This first image will be featured in the Goddard on-line newsletter titled Earth Observatory (EO) to highlight EarthKAM and WORF capabilities.  1,334 images from this mission will be added to the 35,706 images already captured by students since Increment 2.  A combination of the new camera (12.3 megapixel) and shooting through the lab window without the protective scratch pane installed, has yielded phenomenal image qualities with amazing detail and clarity.  145 Schools from 27 nations (119 US schools), involving 9807 students participated in this 35th EarthKAM mission onboard the ISS.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Hobbies):      No report.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Kids in Space):   No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO GREENHOUSE (ESA):   No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    No report. . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.  EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.  EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    Space Bottle has been wrapped with Kapton tape and moved to the airlock.  This bottle will be exposed in space by ULF-5 shuttle EVA.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.  EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    No report.  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET-2 (JAXA):   No report.   FERULATE (JAXA):    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):     Active for MVIS commissioning since 1/10.  MVIS commissioning continuing well.  Thanks, Paolo, for performing the photo session performed from the task list!”  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    “First sample collections for Nespoli and Coleman were completed on 1/14.  The samples were inserted into MELFI about 1hr after collection.”  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):     RAIDS has collected nightside photometry and extreme ultraviolet spectra data since the scan platform power anomaly that occurred on 12/29.  The sensor cannot be pointed without the scan platform so it was shutdown on 1/14 to avoid scattered light during this high-beta period.  The plan is to continue troubleshooting the scan platform power while RAIDS is not collecting secondary science data.  Once the lighting cycle is favorable for collecting data again during the night periods the RAIDS sensor will be turned on. HICO has taken 2440 images to date.  The most recent HICO images taken include images of the Turkish Straits, the Great Barrier Reef, the Santa Barbara Channel and the marshlands surrounding the Mississippi River in the Gulf of Mexico.  HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):    No report.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     “Cady, we found it very helpful to have the opportunity for a direct information exchange regarding Cardiopres errors and hope that you did as well.  Your dedication is immensely appreciated!  As mentioned, we will get feedback to you regarding the ambulatory data as soon as we can.  Paolo, you and Cady make a great team!  Thanks for another fine echo session.  The next ICV echo is around a month from now and the HRF team is working to have the Ultrasound issues resolved well before then!”  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni Exp (JAXA):    24th run was completed on 12/22.  Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    “The air tightness inside Marangoni core was lost during operations on 1/18 and about 3 cc of silicon oil leaked into the core.  To recover from this, cleanup and leak check activities were performed on 1/19.  The result of the leak check was good.  The Marangoni team is awaiting results from the first UVP run currently planned for the upcoming weeks to determine science impacts, if any.”  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Currently acquiring nominal science data in Kibo.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    No report.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-2 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally.  PEC B was powered on January 3 after being off since Day 350 due to thermal exceedances during the high beta period.   MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.  MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    The MICAST#7 cartridge has been inserted on 1/18.  Processing of this cartridge was performed nominally in the night from 1/19 to 1/20.  This completes processing of all 13 MICAST / CETSOL cartridges of the first batch for MSL, teams are very excited!  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 3 (JAXA):    No report.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.  PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report.  PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:     No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA):    No report.  RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Scott, Paolo and Cady: thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test!”  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report.  SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Scott:  Your next week of Sleep logging is scheduled to begin this upcoming Monday and the data will be downlinked the following Monday for the PI to review.”  SMILES (JAXA):   Recooling mode #12.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   Currently out of Sun Visibility window. SOLSPEC weekly calibration performed on 1/20.  The SolACES science team reported a decrease in the efficiency of the spectrometers and are investigating the cause of the problem.  Currently it is assumed that in between the Sun observation windows, when the instrument is powered off and heated by an external heater to keep the temperature above its switch on temperature, the electronics and optical components are cooled down.  After the power on at the beginning of the next Sun observation window the electronics heats up and emits hydrocarbons which then partially cover the still cold optical surfaces which could explain the observed efficiency decrease.  The science team requested to keep SolACES powered on until the end of the next Sun observation window - expected 2/10 - to keep a stable temperature. During and after this period, the SolACES team will further investigate the data. The request of the SolACES team to keep the instrument powered is already in place.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    Ground coordination is on-going related to locating SOLO food items to allow for replanning of the SOLO execution.  Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report.  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):     No report.  SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.   VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring science data with NorAIS receiver.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    No report.  VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    Through 1/17, the ground received 10,254 of ISS CEO frames for review and cataloging.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following target with a time corresponding to that of our daily CEO Target Request list:  Christchurch, South Island, New Zealand - weather was fine and you acquired several crisp, easily recognizable views of this city.  With regards to target cities acquired at other times, we also have recently identified nighttime views of: Kampala-Entebbe, Uganda; Dar es Salaam, Tanzania; Pretoria-Johannesburg, South Africa; Durban, South Africa; Melbourne, Australia; Sao Paulo, Brazil; Tripoli, Libya; and Singapore.  Last week we published two of your photos on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website:  first a wonderfully detailed, cloud-free view of the North Col region of Mount Everest for a regular weekly submission; and second, a quick-turnaround, unsolicited view of last week's devastating flooding in Melbourne, Australia was published both as an Image of the Day feature as well as a Natural Hazards page item.  Kudos to the crew for acquiring these fine heads-up photos!”  CEO targets uploaded today were Mt. Kilimanjaro, Tanzania (Day Target:  Clouds may have been present along the lower flanks but the summit is typically clear.  Of particular interest were the small glaciers located at the summit.  These glaciers have been receding dramatically and have been predicted to disappear completely by 2020.  Detailed imagery of the summit will help document changes in the extent of the glaciers and snow cover), Melbourne, Australia (Night Target:  This was the first of two cities at night.  Looking slightly left of track along the southern coast of New South Wales), Canberra, Australia (Night Target:  ISS crew was able to capture a context view of Canberra and Sydney earlier in this increment.  Weather forecast was not looking promising for Sydney, but Canberra should have been visible).and Wetumpka Impact Crater, AL (Day Target:  ISS had a nadir pass over this 6.5 km diameter impact crater.  The crater is a somewhat subtle feature on the landscape located directly to the southeast of the Coosa River.  Overlapping frames of the region are requested to maximize the potential of obtaining imagery of the crater).  