01-24-2011January 24, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/24/11  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Underway: Week 10 of Increment 26.    Progress M-08M/40P undocked nominally last night at 7:42pm EST.  Deorbit burn took place this morning at ~12:16am.  FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dmitri will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  At wake-up, FE-1 Kaleri terminated his 9th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]   CDR Kelly began another week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 6th session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  FE-6 Coleman undertook her 6th weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.  The required ~10h fast period started last night for her.      [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.]   Kaleri completed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #1 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated later tonight (~4:10pm EST) before sleeptime, followed tomorrow by Bed #2 regeneration.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 1/3-4.]  Kelly had ~3 hrs to relocate NASA cargo from Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), bay A4, to make room for a new JAXA rack.     [After removing dummy panels at F3 & F4, Scott relocated items listed on an uplinked table, then reinstalled the dummy panels.]   Afterwards, the CDR rebooted the JEM SLT (System Laptop Terminal).  Cleaning up after their very successful EVA-27, FE-2 Skripochka & FE-4 Kondratyev stowed Russian EVA tools and returned US EVA tools to the USOS (US Segment).  Oleg downloaded the structural dynamics measurements taken by the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the RS (Russian Segment) during the spacewalk to an USB stick, cleared the archive and downlinked the data.     [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]  Dmitri performed the periodic refresh of the IUS AntiVirus program in the Russian VKS auxiliary (non-network) laptops RSS1, RSS2 & RSK2 which are not loaded from the ground, from a special software program working with Norton AV on the FS (File Server) laptop.     [After first scanning the FS laptop, the virus database was transferred by flash-card to the other computers, which were then scanned one by one.  The networked RSK1, RSE1 & RSE-Med laptops were left On overnight for automatic scanning, to be checked tomorrow for the results.]  FE-2 & FE-4 also serviced the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet, downloading structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer before undocking to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.     [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.]  Skripochka manually closed the DC1 nadir port KVD/PEV (Pressure Equalization Valve) after the departure of Progress M-08M/40P last evening at 7:42pm EST  Then, Oleg set up Orlan-MK 825М3 battery pack 1 for discharge and started the discharge process.  Scott Kelly, Paolo Nespoli & Cady Coleman had about an hour for a joint review of HTV2 cargo transfer instructions.  The crewmembers then discussed particulars with ground specialists in a teleconference at ~7:30am.      [The uplinked material covers HTV2 Choreography, HTV2 Unpack & Trash Message 1 and HTV2 Unpack & Trash List.]  Activities completed by FE-6 Coleman included –  Supporting ongoing JEM RMS (Robotic Manipulator System) BDS (Backup Drive System) checkout in the Kibo JPM by powering up the BUC (Backup Controller).   [Later, BUC was powered down again.]Performing routine service on the WRS (Water Recovery System) using the LFTP (Low Flow Transfer Pump) to transfer one CWC-I (Contingency Water Containers-Iodine, #2035) to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) and offloading it entirely  [estimated offload time: 4.5 hrs.],Retrieving the two CSA-O2 instruments (CSA-Oxygen, #1041, #1045) from the Soyuz TMA-01M/24S and calibrating them in the Lab for their weekly checkout, taking readings, then turning them off again and returning them to 24S    [The oxygen sensors in the CSA-O2s (and CSA-CPs/CSA-Combustion Products) have exceeded their shelf life due to resupply delays.  The weekly calibration checks permit continued use of these units until new ones arrive on ULF-5],Powering up the HRF Ultrasound equipment and performing a status check on switch positions, lights & sounds in support of ground-based troubleshooting after the recent anomaly,Removing & replacing the air hose and LI (Liquid Indicator) in the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment), deferred from 1/21,Completing another manual fill of the UPA WSTA (Urine Processor Assembly Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly), from a Russian EDV-SV (waste water container), andRemoving FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack) alignment guides to allow ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) to be activated before beginning FIR operations that require a microgravity environment.    Kelly, Nespoli & Coleman worked through Part 4 of the OBT (Onboard Training) course for the MSS SSRMS (Mobile Servicing System / Space Station Remote Manipulator System) ROBoT activities during the HTV2 capture and berthing, using the ROBoT Simulator for ~2 hrs, supported by ground training instructor tagups and followed by a teleconference.  Paolo had ~3 hrs set asides for working in the JAXA JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment), exchanging NASA water and JEM bags (#17 & #18) behind JLP racks.     [JEM bags will be disposed on HTV2 to make room for the HTV2 JAXA cargo.]  Dmitri Kondratyev took the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, spending ~90 min on the TVIS treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.      [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmember rests for 5 min., then works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h for 2 min, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h for 1 min, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace to 3.5 km/h].  Dima also handled the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Oleg conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module).     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.]  Later in the day, Scott Kelly prepared the equipment for his next HRF (Human Research Facility) generic 24-hr urine collections, starting tomorrow.  At ~1:30pm, CDR Kelly had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  CDR & FE-6 were scheduled for their regular PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Scott at ~9:00am, Cady at ~12:05pm.  The six crewmembers worked out with an abbreviated physical exercise regimen on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6)and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).     [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  HTV2 Flight Day 2 Summary:    The HTV (H-II Transfer Vehicle) successfully performed one burn on FD2, per the plan:  MD1 began at 1/23/12:56:32pm EST and had a delta-V of 0.78 m/s (performed using RCS Jets).  The burn decreased the HTV semi-major axis by approximately 1.3 km to adjust the phasing for the rendezvous.  HTV is now in a 319 x 313 km orbit.  As of 1/24/1:30am, HTV was approximately 13,150 km behind and 33 to 41 km below ISS, and phasing toward ISS at 350 km/rev.  The post-burn trajectory has been screened for debris and is currently clear of conjunctions.   No CEO targets uploaded for today.  