
ISS HAM pass:  On Wednesday, the crew participated in two ISS HAM passes.  The first was Morita Junior High School, Fukui, Japan and some of the questions included the effects of heating water in space, what happens if an astronaut has a toothache in space, and if the crew has ever had a serious disease in space.  The second contact was with the Ontario Science Centre, Toronto, Canada and some of the questions included if the crew has ever seen any space junk, if food tastes any different in space, and the crew’s perception of the portrayal space in movies.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Probiotics: On Wednesday, the crew performed sampling activities for the ongoing Probiotics investigation.  Some species of harmful bacteria such as Salmonella grow stronger and more virulent in the microgravity environment of space. At the same time, the human immune system is weaker in space, leading to increased health risks. The objective of the Probiotics investigation is to study the impact of continuous consumption of beneficial bacteria (probiotics) on immune function and intestinal microbiota in astronauts in a closed microgravity environment.  The results of this investigation may be used to support improvements in crew members’ intestinal microbiota and their immune function on long-duration space missions. 
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew participated in a crew conference and performed the “day 0” activities for the multi-day CAL R&R.  This included a practice session for fiber optic cable inspection and cleaning, hardware gathering, disconnection of the appropriate sensors, coolant lines, etc.  The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods. 
Vascular Aging: The crew began a 13 hour blood pressure monitoring session in support of the Vascular Aging investigation.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed. 
Systems: 
AMS-02 (Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer) EVA #4 Preparation: Today, the crew continued preparations for the final AMS repair EVA.  Several activities were successfully completed including:  Procedure Review and Conference, Tool Configuration, Robot On-board Training, EMU Long Life Battery (LLB)/Metal Oxide (METOX) Installation, Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Swap and Checkout, POM Battery Charging, Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Term, LLB Operations Initiation, Station Support Computer (SSC) Relocate, METOX Regen Term, and Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) Checkouts.  Additionally, a nominal Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) 1016 checkout was performed; EMU Data Recorder (EDaR), and Glove Heater functionality was confirmed.
ISS Double Reboost:  Two reboosts using the Progress 74P Mid-Ring thrusters were successfully completed today.  The DC1-Nadir Progress was used since 61S Soyuz is currently docked to SM-Aft. Since the delta-V required for this maneuver was greater than can be achieved with a single burn using the Mid-Ring thrusters, the delta-V was split across two reboosts occurring approximately 2 orbits apart.  This reboost supports Soyuz 59S landing phasing on February 6th.
EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) Radio Frequency (RF) Camera Assembly (ERCA) Troubleshooting:  The crew installed ERCA ID 20 on EMU 3004 and checked it out successfully in preparation for US EVA 64.  This activity was to recover from issues experienced with ERCA ID 11 during Monday’s EVA.
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) High Gas Outlet Pressure:  Early this morning, during a Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) process run, an Error Code was annunciated, “EC 368 High Gas Out Pressure”. The error code was accompanied by a noted slower production rate in urine processing; however, the UPA did complete its process run. Today’s Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) activities were deferred to give ground teams more time to assess options.
Completed Task List Activities:

Photo TV EVA Go Pro Battery Charging

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted. 
Friday, 1/24 (GMT 024)
Payloads:

AMS procedure review
Cold Atom Lab
Myotones
Standard Measures
Vascular Aging

Systems:

Pre-EVA Periodic Health Status Examination
EVA Tool Config
EVA Procedure Review and Conference
Equipment Lock Prep Part 2
EMU Long Life Battery (LLB) Charge Terminate
DOUG Setup

Saturday, 1/25 (GMT 025)
Payloads:


No payload activities

Systems:

AMS EVA #4
Emergency PBA Photo

Sunday, 1/26 (GMT 026)
Payloads:

GLACIER desiccant swap
LIDAL
Standard Measures
STP-H5 ICE photos

Systems:

EVA debrief
EMU Water Recharge
ARED Rope Flip
WHC Filter R&R
Crew Departure Prep
59S Prepack

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


MO-8. Configuration Setup
Body Mass Measurement
SPLANKH-2. Splankhograph Setup.
SPLANKH-2. Sonomed-K Setup.
SPLANKH-2. Ultrasound study before breakfast with the Electrogastroenterography (EGEG) recording.
Probiotics Saliva Operations
Probiotics Saliva Sample MELFI Insertion
Probiotics Question
Vascular Aging 13-Hour Blood Pressure Monitoring Initialization
Relocate SSC13 from NOD2 into LAB, and move SSCs 5, 16 in LAB.
МО-8. Closeout Ops
Photo TV Battery Charge Initiation
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Cold Atom Lab Science Module Remove and Replace Big Picture Words
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
HRF Generic Saliva Collection Setup
Cold Atom Lab Hardware Gather
Conference of Search and Rescue (ГПСК) specialists with returning crew (S-band)
Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue GN2 Check
Cold Atom Lab Science Module Remove And Replace Conference
Checking shutter closure on SM windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14
SPLANKH-2. Ultrasound study after breakfast with the Electrogastroenterography (EGEG) recording.
Cold Atom Lab Fiber Optic Cable Cleaning Dry Run
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Termination
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Cold Atom Lab Science Module Remove And Replace Prep
ExtraVehicular Activity Mobility Unit Helmet reconfig.
ExtraVehicular Activity Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly Swap
Food Acceptability Survey
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
ExtraVehicular Activity Mobility Unit Data Module Demate
ExtraVehicular In-line voltage/ current regulator demate
SPLANKH-2. Splankhograph Closeout Ops.
SPLANKH-2. Sonomed-K Closeout Ops.
ExtraVehicular Activity Mobility Unit RF Camera Assembly and Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly Checkout
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue Pyro Valve Checkout
ExtraVehicular Activity Mobility Unit Data Recorder Mate
ExtraVehicular Activity Mobility Unit In-line voltage current regulator mater
ExtraVehicular Activity Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly Checkout
СОЖ Maintenance, Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Myotones Kit Gathering
ExtraVehicular Activity Mobility Unit RF Camera Assembly Stow
COLUMBUS Bay 1, 2, 3 clean-up
Photo TV Battery Charge Swap
IMS Delta File
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill [Aborted]
On-board Training (OBT) EVA Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session
AMS Procedure/video review
Video Recording of Greetings
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Station Support Computer (SSC) Relocate
Food Acceptability Survey
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
КОNTENT. Experiment ops
КОSMOKARD. Closeout ops.
Photo TV Battery Charge Swap
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Conference
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Initiate
Swap SSC17 and SSC19 laptops (only) to support the OCT2 activity [Aborted]
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT2 Setup
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill Part 3[Aborted]
Audit of lighting fixtures in FGB
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT2 Prep
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Termination
Food Physiology Crew Diet Briefing
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB)/Metal Oxide (METOX) Installation
Water Storage System Resupply Storage Tank Swap
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT2 Exam – Subject [Aborted]
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – OCT2 Exam – Operator [Aborted]
Vascular Aging 13-Hour Blood Pressure Monitoring Crew Time Payback
Station Support Computer (SSC) Reload Start
Photo TV Battery Charge Deactivation
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT2 Stow
Charging EVA Camera D4 Battery
Standard Measures Pre-sleep Questionnaire
Vascular Aging 13-Hour Blood Pressure Monitoring Off

 