01-24-2010January 24, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/24/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – off-duty day.   Ahead: Week 9 of Increment 22  FE-1 Suraev began his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by Maxim on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  CDR Williams & FE-6 Creamer continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), donning their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  After breakfast, CDR Williams & FE-5 Noguchi supported the weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.     [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.]   Maxim Suraev made preparations for the replacement old fuses in the KOKh1,2 (active external thermal control system)’s regulator power circuits (RRZh1,2) of the BKS onboard cable network behind panel 134 where fuses have repeatedly blown.  Max then went ahead to perform the replacements, tagging up with ground specialists as necessary via S-Band.    [This has already been looked into by Romanenko and Padalka, apparently without resolution.]  FE-6 Creamer had Day 3 with the Nutrition/Repository/Pro K protocol, today executing the FD30 (Flight Day 30) blood draw session, finishing up the 24-hr urine collections started yesterday.  Samples were stowed in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).     [The operational products for Blood & Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]  FE-4 Kotov performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  FE-6 Creamer conducted the periodic offloading of condensate from the Lab CCAA (Common Cabin Air Assembly) dehumidifier’s condensate tank into a CWC (Collapsible Water Container, #1062) slated for processing.  At ~9:05am EST, Max Suraev again took orbital photography of the Haiti disaster area.  CDR, FE-1, FE-4, FE-5 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Maxim at ~5:05am, Oleg at ~6:00am, Soichi at ~11:45am, Jeff at ~2:05pm EST.  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).  ISS Reboost 2 Update:   This morning at 4:01am EST, the ISS successfully performed the 2nd reboost using the SM Main Engines (after the 1st reboost on 1/22 had served to test the SM main engines prior to this morning’s larger reboost).  The combination of these two reboosts will set up phasing for Progress 36P launch and several FD3 (Flight Day 3) rendezvous launch opportunities for STS-130/20A.  Burn duration as 2m 34s, delta-V 2.95 m/s (9.67 ft/s), with a mean altitude gain of 5.10 km (2.75 nmi).  No (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  