
Sally RideEarth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students (Sally Ride EarthKAM):  Samokutyaev installed the 180 mm lens on the EarthKam and continued with the week long imaging session.  Not everyone can go to space, but everyone can see Earth from an astronaut’s perspective with the Sally Ride EarthKAM program. Thousands of students can remotely control a digital camera mounted on the ISS, and use it to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges and other interesting features. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the Internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view Earth from a unique vantage point.
Robonaut:  Virts reviewed a Robonaut video and set up cameras in the Lab and Node 2 in preparation for upcoming operations.   Crew unstowed and set up Robonaut in the US Lab, installed power, Ethernet, motion stop cables and powered the unit.  An issue was encountered when a position sensor in the right arm elbow joint failed to initialize properly.  Repeated attempts to clear the fault by ground teams were unsuccessful and mobility operations could not be completed.   Crew then powered down, disconnected cables, and stowed Robonaut.  Robonaut is a dexterous humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, exhibit greater endurance than humans and react safely when bumped or interacted with in a way that was not expected.
Cognition:  Virts performed his flight day 65 cognition test.  This is the sixth of eight planned sessions.  He powered on Human Research Facility laptop, launched the Cognition application, and completed the Cognition test which included pre-test questions and an array of cognitive tests with performance feedback. Cognition is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
SpaceX-5 Dragon Cargo Loading:  Wilmore and Cristoforetti continued loading cargo into Dragon today.  The crew has completed an estimated 53 hours of the total planned 70 hours required.  SpaceX-5 unberth is scheduled to occur on 10 February 2015, with splash down occurring later the same day. 
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 Deboost:  ISS performed a deboost using the ATV-5 Orbit Control System (OCS) thrusters. This deboost was required to set up phasing for 58 Progress (58P) 4-orbit rendezvous on February 17, 2015.  The delta velocity for the burn was -0.69 m/s with a duration of 4 minutes 49 seconds.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Piping Remove and Replace (R&R):  Wilmore replaced the piping between the pump separator and the dose pump.  This is a task that is performed every 6 months.  The spare was recently delivered onboard SpaceX-5.
Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) discharge:  Seven PBAs were used during the false toxic alarm on January 14th.  All seven were expended to below the required minimum pressure.  Five of those were discharged into the cabin atmosphere today in order to make use of the oxygen content, and were packed for return on SpaceX-5 and later refurbishment.  The two with the highest remaining pressure will be retained on board.  PBAs are used during emergency response situations when the atmosphere on board is not breathable, or questionable, such as the false toxic alarm event earlier this month. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


DRAGON Transfer Ops
EMU LIB battery Charge (end)
BRI Monthly Maintenance Surface Cleaning
EKAM – Battery Swap / See OSTPV for Procedure
MERLIN – Desiccant Kit Removal
ROBONAUT – Experiment Procedure Review and Video Viewing
Filling EDV from ATV5 WDS Tank Using Compressor
R2 – Robonaut Unstow and Powerup
BAR Experiment Ops
R2-BACKPACK – Power Cycling
WHC -Tank R&R
DRAGON Transfer Ops
Microbial Air Sampling (medium 2), medium 2 analysis, locations No.9-16. Data downlink
EKAM – Battery Swap / See OSTPV for Procedure
R2-BACKPACK – Power Cycling
Cleaning FGB ГЖТ Detachable Screens 1, 2, 3
Monitoring КОБ2 Loop Health
PAO Event
DRAGON Transfer Ops
R2-MOBILITY – Watch
Life On The Station Photo and Video
FFL01 – Sample Transfer & Experiment Ops
Filling EDV from ATV5 WDS Tank Using Compressor (51,52)
R2 – Robonaut Hardware Power Down and Stowage
Clearing space (openings) near hatches MRM1-СУ, MRM2- СУ (SM), and DC1-СУ (SM) from cargo
HRF- Sample collection setup
EKAM-SM – Camera Lens Change
FFL01 – Cargo Relocation
EKAM – Battery Swap
Dragon – Cargo Tagup
COGN – Experiment Ops

Completed Task List Items

Dragon Cargo Ops [In work]

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


ATV Deboost

