01-22-2012January 22, 2012ISS On-Orbit Status 01/22/12  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday – Crew off duty. Ahead: Week 9 of Increment 30 (six-person crew).  After wakeup, FE-4 Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  CDR Burbank, FE-1 Shkaplerov, FE-2 Ivanishin, FE-4 Kononenko, FE-5 Kuipers & FE-6 Pettit joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module). ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  As part of Uborka house cleaning, Anton, Anatoly & Oleg completed regular weekly maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) and the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille in the SM. Before the cleaning, all fan screens were photographed for ground inspection.  Anton Shkaplerov conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. This included the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow, as well as the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s & FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for calldown. [SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].  Dan Burbank completed the regular (~weekly) inspection & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 & O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.  FE-5 André Kuipers started his workday with Day 4 of his 2nd (FD30) suite of sessions with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.  André also began his 2nd 24-hr urine collections under the NUTRITION/Repository protocol in the morning with first void.  Later in the day, André set up the equipment for the associated blood collection, scheduled tomorrow.   [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet & urine pH logging and photography on the last day (science sessions are often referred to by Flight Day 15, 30, 60, etc. However, there are plus-minus windows associated with these time points so a “Flight Day 15” science session may not actually fall on the crewmember’s 15th day on-orbit). The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken. Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection. Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC. There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged). MELFI constraints: Maximum MELFI Dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI Dewar door openings.]Urine samples go into MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 minutes after collection. Every individual urine/blood sample tube must be labeled with time of void and Crew ID (crew initials). Barcodes can be called down, placed in crew notes or via the BCR (barcode reader). For the subsequent blood sampling, there is an 8-hour fasting requirement prior to the blood draw. No food or drink, but water consumption is highly encouraged to ensure proper hydration. Exercise should not be conducted during the 8 hrs prior to the blood draw. There is a 20 min minimum to 30 min maximum blood coagulation period prior to RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) spin.]  Don Pettit broke out the kit for his 2nd Pro K session, starting tomorrow.  With the Robotics survey of the STP-H3 (Space Test Program – Houston 3) external payload completed on 1/19 and the MT (Mobile Transporter) translated back to WS4 (Worksite 4), today the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) was walked off the MT to the Node-2 PDGF (Power & Data Grapple Fixture) by ground commanding for CDR Burbank to take photographs of the LEE A (Latching End Effector A) on the arm.    [At least one of three photo opportunities was to be used for the ground to inspect the snare wires.]  CDR, FE-4, FE-5 & FE-6 conducted their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), André at ~3:15am, Oleg at ~6:30am, Don at ~11:25pm, Dan at ~2:50pm EST.  The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-6),  T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4).  Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko & Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were – A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and More preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.  