
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): Over the weekend, a crewmember installed ELF cartridge unit 001. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method. With this facility thermophysical property of high temperature, melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Bio-Monitor: Today a crewmember donned the Bio-Monitor primary hardware as part of a 48hr data gathering run. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way.
Time Perception in Microgravity: Today crewmembers performed Time Perception sessions. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time is fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. 
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites-Zero-Robotics (SPHERES-Zero-Robotics): Today crewmembers performed The Zero Robotics 2018 High School Final competition runs. Seventeen teams participated in the runs involving a total of 51 schools from multiple participating countries. The SPHERES-Zero-Robotics investigation establishes an opportunity for high school students to design research for the International Space Station (ISS). As part of a competition, students write algorithms for the SPHERES satellites to accomplish tasks relevant to future space missions. The algorithms are tested by the SPHERES team and the best designs are selected for the competition to operate the SPHERES satellites on board the ISS. 
Northrop Grumman 10 (NG-10) Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued Cygnus cargo operations in preparation for the vehicle departure, currently planned for February 8.
Completed Task List Activities:

ESA Headphone set Relocation (Completed GMT 026)
ESA 60” Tape Measure Wanted Poster (Completed GMT 026)
Spare Pump Package Assembly (PPA) Flight Support Equipment (FSE) removal and stow (Completed GMT 026)
NG-10 CES (Cargo Environment Sensor) Data Download (Completed GMT 026)
Stowage Locker Trash Fill (Completed GMT 026)
Hatch Seal Inspections (Completed GMT 026 and 027)
ARED Heel Raise Pip Pin and Racking Mechanism Inspection (Completed GMT 027)
Record EPO Paxi script  (Completed GMT 027)
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection Parts 1 and 2  (Completed GMT 027)
LAB1D4 Cleanout Part 1 and 2 (Completed GMT 027)
NG-10 CES (Cargo Environment Sensor) Data Download  (Completed GMT 027)
Stowage Locker Trash Fill (Completed GMT 027)

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Battery 4A3 Reconditioning (Ongoing)

Two Day Look Ahead:
Tuesday, 01/29
Payloads:

Bio-Monitoring (CSA)
Moon Imagery-Optical Nav (NASA)
JEM External Facility (NASA)
Lighting Effects (NASA)
NRCSD-15 Review (NASA)

Systems

Cygnus Cargo Operations

Wednesday, 01/30
Payloads:

Bio-Monitoring (CSA)
Lighting Effects (NASA)
NRCSD-15 Deployer install (NASA)
Meteor HD changeout (NASA)
Circadian Rhythms (ESA)
Team Task Switching (NASA)
Actiwatch Plus check (NASA)
CIR ACME hardware replacement (NASA)

Systems

Cygnus Cargo Operations
Node 3 Deck Starboard Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
Photos of interior for RS ISS Modules
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry Subject
TIME Perception experiment combined session (Setup, Science, and Stowage)
СОЖ Maintenance
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations
Bio-Monitor Data Unit Battery Replacement And Synchronization Using Controller
Bio-Monitor Wearables Setup
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations
SPHERES Crew Conference
SPHERES Zero Robotics Setup and Checkout
SPHERES Zero Robotics Welcome
SPHERES  Zero Robotics Run
SPHERES Zero Robotics Shutdown
Food Acceptability Questionnaires
Cygnus Cargo Operations Conference
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Monitoring ИП-1 Air Flow Sensors

 