01-29-2010January 29, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 01/29/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  At wakeup, FE-1 Suraev terminated his 8th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  Also at wake-up, Suraev did the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by Maxim on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Right after Postsleep, CDR Williams, FE-5 Noguchi & FE-6 Creamer completed another Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  A total of 121 RST runs are assigned to Jeff for the duration of his orbital stay.]  Oleg Kotov attended to the current experiment session with the Russian/German TEKh-20 Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall/PK-3+) payload, activating the turbo pump in the Service Module (SM)’s Transfer Compartment (PkhO) for keeping the vacuum chamber (ZB) in the SM Work Compartment (RO) evacuated.  Maxim checked the video coverage.  Later, the FE-4 deactivated the PK-3 hardware and reset its STTS comm link to the ground to nominal.    [Main objective of PK-3 is to study wave propagation and dispersion ratio in a dust plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber, at a specified power of HF discharge, pressure, and a varied number of particles.]  FE-1 Suraev started the 3rd and final part of the 5th onboard run of the Russian SSTV (Slow Scan TV) equipment of the MAI-75 experiment as part of OBR-3 (Obrazovanie-3, Education 3) ops, essentially a ham radio set-up with Kenwood TM D700 Transceiver and Kenwood VS-N1 (Visual Communicator) gear for downlinking photographic images of the overflown terrain to ground stations.  Later in the day, the radio session was terminated and the equipment closed out.    [The payload is named after the renowned MAI (Moscow Aviation Institute) whose reputation is based on the large number of famous aviators and rocket scientists that received their academic education here.  Among the alumni are Academicians and Corresponding Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences.  Over 100 General and Chief Designers earned their degree at MAI, with famous rocket scientists like Makeyev, Mishin, Nadiradze and Yangel.  MAI also fostered 20 Pilot-Cosmonauts, almost 100 famous test pilots, Heroes of the Soviet Union and Russia.  The amateur radio (ham) equipment aboard the ISS for downlinking SSTV imagery is a MAI product.]  Continuing preparations for the three 20A spacewalks, CDR Williams recharged the Makita batteries for the three PGTs (Pistol Grip Tools) in the U.S. A/L (Airlock).  Later, Williams & Creamer spent another ~3 hrs on Part 2 of the CDRA IFM (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly / Inflight Maintenance), which received a new adsorbent bed #1.  Today, Jeff & TJ reinstalled component groups (hand tight) to CDRA frame for temp stowage in the CDRA volume of the AR (Atmosphere Revitalization) Rack, than replaced the CDRA in the AR Rack in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  Afterwards, the CDR took IMV (Intermodule Module Ventilation) flow measurement for the Kibo JPM, using the electronic Velocicalc instrument at the Overhead Aft, Starboard Aft & Starboard Forward IMV outlets.  Creamer & Suraev completed a checkout of and familiarization with the CMRS (Crew Medical Restraint System).    [The board-like CMRS allows strapping down a patient on the board with a harness for medical attention by the CMO (Crew Medical Officer) who is also provided with restraints around the device.  CMRS can be secured to the ISS structure within two minutes to provide a patient restraint surface for performing emergency medical procedures, such as during ACLS (advanced cardiac life support).  It can also be used to transport a patient between the station and the Orbiter middeck.  It isolates the crew and equipment electrically during defibrillations and pacing electrical discharges, accommodates the patient in the supine zero-G positions, provides cervical spine stabilization and can also restrain two CMOs at the same time during their delivery of medical care.]  TJ & Max then also performed a familiarization/checkout of the RSP (Respiratory Support Pack), inspecting it for any anomalies, with nominal result.  CDR, FE-5 & FE-6 joined up for a one-hour in-depth review of the 20A equipment transfer list.  Jeff performed routine maintenance on the four CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units (#1052, #1042, #1056, #1049), changing batteries on all units and performing zero calibration on each CSA-CP,  Continuing the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, Suraev used a vacuum cleaner and soft brush to clean the clean the central ventilation fans TsV1,2 and the detachable VT7 fan screens of the three SOTR gas-liquid heat exchangers (GZhT4), plus the fixed GZhT4 grill bin the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok).  Afterwards, Maxim spent ~3 hrs in the SM, removing & replacing the ORU/BS (replaceable blocks) in the 4SPN1 pump panel of the KOB2 loop of the Russian SOTR internal thermal control system.    [Each of the two SOTR KOB loops has two redundant pump panels with two redundant micro pumps each.  While in the early years of Mir and ISS the pumps were integral to the SPN panels, the current design allows them to be replaced without requiring an entire new SPN block.]   In the SM, FE-4 Kotov did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  FE-1 Suraev took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  After a one-hour review of JEMRMS DOUG (Robotic Manipulator System / Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) operations, FE-5 Noguchi maneuvered the RMS to the position required to observe the door of the JAXA HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System) Far-UV Dust experiment.  In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Soichi adjusted the setting of the ESA BLB (Biolab) N2/nitrogen pressure reducer on the BLB rack’s rear side and checked the position of the LSM (Life Support Module) O2 and CO2 gas bottle valves (should be OPEN).  Afterwards, Soichi moved 8 CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags), which had to be removed for BLB rack tilting, from their temporary place back to the COL Deck rack #2 floor panels.  Kotov conducted the periodic lens cleaning of the NIKON D3X cameras.  Later, the FE-4 completed the periodic transfer of U.S. condensate water from CWCs (Contingency Water Containers) to the RS for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen & (waste) hydrogen, filling the designated KOV EDV container.  Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.]  Oleg also took the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, spending an hour on the TVIS treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.    [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmember rests for 5 min., then works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h for 2 min, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h for 1 min, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace to 3.5 km/h.]  Working on the JAXA CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility), the FE-5 installed a new temperature control on the backside wall of CBEF Micro-G IU (Incubator Unit) and configured the CBEF fan power cable for both the CBEF Micro-G & 1G temp control fans.  Williams performed the weekly 10-min. CWC inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week.     [The current card (22-0003H) lists 84 CWCs (1,962.3 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (16 CWCs with 566.9 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 217.2 L in 8 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 215.5 L in 5 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 1 bag with 23.0 L contains Wautersia, 1 bag with 43.6 L requires sample analysis & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (53 CWCs with ~980.4 L),  4. condensate water (1 bag with 28.1L [known leaker], 3 empty CWCs), and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (1 CWC with 20.2 L, 1 empty CWC).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  Creamer & Kotov undertook the periodic one-hour CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) Emergency Health Maintenance System Contingency Drill.    [This on-board training/drill gives crewmembers the opportunity to work as a team in resolving a simulated medical emergency onboard ISS. This training refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment use, and procedures.]  TJ & Soichi filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  At ~3:05am EST, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.  At ~4:30am, Oleg & Maxim linked up with TsUP/Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory & stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.  At ~2:30pm, the ISS crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H via S-band/audio.    [S/G-2 (Space-to-Ground 2) phone patch via SSC (Station Support Computer).]  At ~3:00pm, the crew will hold the (normally weekly) teleconference with ISS Program Management at JSC/Houston via Ku-band/video & S-band/audio.  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4/MO-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  Vozdukh Recovery:   Crew and TsUP-Moscow continued troubleshooting of the Vozdukh yesterday and determined that the BU-VN Pump Control Unit for the VN pump had failed.  The BU was removed and replaced and the system is currently operating nominally.     CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Astana, Kazakhstan (weather was predicted to be clear over the capital city of Kazakhstan.  The city will likely be snow-covered.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), and Slate Islands Impact Crater, Ontario (the Slate Islands were formed by a meteor impact approximately 450 million years ago.  The islands have a surface area of about 36 square kilometers, but the entire impact structure is approximately 32 kilometers in diameter.  Looking for the Slate Islands – they are likely to have ice and snow cover - near the northern shore of Lake Superior.  Overlapping nadir-viewing mapping frames of the islands were requested).  