
Payloads:
Metabolic Space: A crewmember performed a CEVIS exercise session with Metabolic Space protocols and hardware. The aim of the Metabolic Space experiment is to perform a technology demonstration of cardio-pulmonary diagnosis in space during physical activities of astronauts living aboard the ISS, while maintaining unrestricted mobility. This is achieved with a wearable measurement system that is directly worn by an astronaut. For this, a customized space qualified version of the MetaMax3B system, from the company Cortex, is used as basis. The Team develops any other equipment needed.
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL): A CO2 Incubator Controller was installed into SABL-1. The Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL) supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28V D/C and 5V D/C power supplies for investigation use.
Systems: 
ISS X2R20 Software Transition: Today marks the last of 4 days of X2R20 Software updates. Over the course of this week, ISS ground teams successfully updated the ISS Command and Data Handling (C&DH) System, such as the Command and Control (C&C) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDMs), Payload MDMs and Guidance, Navigation and Control (GN&C) MDMs to the new X2R20 software. The C&DH system consists of a multi-tier computer network that monitors and processes telemetry for on-orbit hardware and distributes ground or crew initiated commands to designated components. 
Robotic Checkouts in Preparation for NG-17: Yesterday afternoon, ISS robotic ground teams (ROBO) completed checkouts of the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS), Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism (OTCM), and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) in preparation for NG-17.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Lumbar Spine Scan: As part of routine medical operations, the crew performed lumbar spinal ultrasound exams. Spinal ultrasound exams aim to use ground and space-based studies to characterize spinal changes during and after spaceflight.  Ground based pre- and post-flight Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and high fidelity ultrasound, combined with in-flight ultrasound are used to characterize and assign a mission health risk to microgravity-associated spinal alterations for back pain and potential injury.
T2 Monthly Inspection: As part of regular maintenance to ensure the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition, the crew inspected all four Snubber Arms for any sign of free play as well as make any necessary adjustments to reduce the free play. The crew also performed additional Inspections on all tape and witness markings on T2 Thumbwheels, Snubber Jam Nuts, and Snubber Cup Housing; inspected the Snubber Pin position within the Snubber Cups, and Sorbothane residue on Snubber Pins.
Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMU) 3009/3013 Loop Scrub, and Iodination: The crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity on units 3009 and 3013. Additionally, the crew installed the Hard Upper Torso (HUT) ORU Scrubber to spare HUT 2036 to scrub and iodinate the spare HUT water lines. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop. After the EMU loop scrub activities were completed the crew performed a post-HUT R&R and post-launch checkout for EMU 3013.
LAB Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Manual Flow Control Valve (MFCV) Adjustment: Today, the crew used a Coriolis Flowmeter to adjust the MFCV of the Lab 1 Deck 1 rack to decrease ITCS flow through the rack. This is peformed as part of an effort to reallocate cooling resources for the LAB’s Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL). The ITCS provides equipment cooling and heat rejection through a combination of water loops and interface heat exchangers. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Day 4 of X2R20 Software Transition
EMU Loop Scrub Support
Payload Racks Officer (PRO) Robotic Refueling Mission (RRM3) Commanding

