01-23-2012January 23, 2012ISS On-Orbit Status 01/23/12  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Underway: Week 9 of Increment 30 (six-person crew). >>>Progress 45P Undocking day<<<.  After wakeup, FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  CDR Burbank, FE-5 Kuipers & FE-6 Pettit each completed another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, the 16th for Dan, the 9th for André and Don. [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  André Kuipers started his workday with Day 5 of his 2nd (FD30) suite of sessions with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period. This morning at ~2:00am EST, FE-5 concluded his first NUTRITION w/Repository 24-hr urine collection period, with samples deposited in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) in Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module). Today, Kuipers also underwent the associated generic blood draw, with Dan Burbank assisting with the phlebotomy as CMO (Crew Medical Officer). André then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the JPM MELFI (JEM Pressurized Module Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS). [The operational products for blood & urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities. Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated. Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement. Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]  FE-6 Pettit began his 2nd (FD30) suite of sessions with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period. Kuipers took documentary photography of Don’s diet log. [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet & urine pH logging and photography on the last day (science sessions are often referred to by Flight Day 15, 30, 60, etc. However, there are plus-minus windows associated with these time points so a “Flight Day 15” science session may not actually fall on the crewmember’s 15th day on-orbit). The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken. Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection. Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC. There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged). MELFI constraints: Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]  FE-1 Shkaplerov started a new round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today changing out the cartridges of the four dust filters (PF1-4) in the SM, discarding the used cartridges.  Afterwards, Anton performed regular periodic maintenance in the MRM1 Rassvet module, tightening the ZVB quick-release screw clamps on the SSVP docking mechanism at the MRM1 StA-- Soyuz TMA-03M/29S (#703) interface.  FE-2 Ivanishin spent ~5 hrs in SM & FGB performing the every-2-months inspection and photography of structural elements, cabling and the pressurized shell ring for microbial signs.  FE-4 Kononenko meanwhile worked with the KPT-2 payload with its BAR science instruments suite, checking out micro conditions of the SM surface in areas with identified signs of microflora growth on the pressurized shell surface. [Problem area monitoring is necessary to predict shell micro-destruction rate and to develop measures to extend station life. Data were copied to the RSE1 laptop for downlink to Earth via OCA, with photographs, and the activities were supported by ground specialist tagup as required. Objective of the Russian KPT-2/BAR science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night). Piren-V is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods & means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization. Besides KPT-2 Piren-V, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times. Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]  In the Lab, Dan Burbank collected samples of the coolant and the antimicrobial agent OPA (Ortho-phthalaldehyde) from the Lab ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) for return to the ground, using a sampling adapter after purging (flushing) it.   Later, Dan took coolant samples from the ITCS in the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  CDR Burbank also worked several hours in Node-3, removing the MCA MSA (Major Constituent Analyzer Mass Spectrometer Assembly) of the AR (Atmosphere Revitalization) system (AR) and replacing it with a new MSA and Type II Connector Saver to serve as an interface between the MCA chassis and the redesigned P1 of the MSA. [Since the AR rack is opposite the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) in Node 3 and Dan had to rotate the rack to release connections on the back side of the MCA drawer, he may have had to temporarily remove the WHC Kabin.]   Afterwards, the CDR initiated the pump-out of the MCA.  Later, Dan closed the ACS (Atmospheric Control System) O2 crossover valve. [The valve was opened on 12/28 to equalize the O2 tanks for the High Beta period. Valve must now be closed to separate the Hi-P and Lo-P systems.]  FE-2 performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.]  FE-1 took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  FE-5 André Kuipers readied the new Panasonic 3DA1 camcorder with fresh batteries and then set it up to record video of the SPHERES activities conducted by FE-6 Pettit. Afterwards, the 3DA1 was turned off again.  FE-6 supported competing students on the ground in a run of the SPHERES ZR (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites Zero Robotics) experiment, using 2 SPHERES satellite, 5 Beacons with mounts, 3 Handrail Extenders, 4 battery packs, 4 CO2 tanks and the LPTX primary antenna. ISS Test Session 30 is the final competition of the 2011Zero Robotics SPHERES challenge. Group A competition is between 3 European teams, Group B between nine U.S. teams in 3 rounds. [The satellites were then deactivated, the battery packs checked and removed, the beacons powered off, the LPTX antenna disconnected and the gear stowed. SPHERES was originally developed to demonstrate the basics of formation flight, autonomous docking and other multi-spacecraft control algorithms, using beacons as reference for the satellites, to fly formation with or dock to the beacon. A number of programs define various incremental tests including attitude control (performing a series of rotations), attitude-only tracking, attitude and range tracking, docking with handheld and mounted beacons, etc. The payload consists of up to three self-contained 8-inch dia. free-floating satellites which perform the various algorithms (control sequences), commanded and observed by the crew members which provide feedback to shape algorithm development. Each satellite has 12 thrusters and a tank with CO2 for propellant. The first tests, in May 2006, used only one satellite (plus two beacons -- one mounted and one hand-held); a second satellite arrived on ULF1.1, the third on 12A.1. Formation flight and autonomous docking are important enabling technologies for distributed architectures. Per applicable Flight Rule, SPHERES operations have no CO2 output constraints if the CDRA (CO2 Removal Assembly) is operating in dual-bed or single-bed mode.]   In preparation for the UMS (Urine Monitoring System) test validation sequence scheduled on 1/24, André later reviewed procedural material, then filled 3 Drinking Water Containers, each with 100 ml hot water from PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) and temp stowed with UMS hardware. UMS hardware items required on 1/24 were then pre-gathered.  FE-5 also conducted the T+5 day visual microbial (bacterial & fungal) analysis & data recording of surface & air samples collected by Dan Burbank 1/18 at selected sites in the Lab, Node-1, Node-2, Node-3, FGB, COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and JPM (JEM Pressurized Module). [The colony growth on the sampling slides is inspected visually after five days of incubation, using a special procedure to analyze the SSK media slides for bacterial & fungal colony growths.]  Don Pettit started another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later. [Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop. The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer). This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  In preparation for Progress 46P arrival, Oleg Kononenko set up the Ku-band video “scheme” for a 1.5-hr communications test of converting the RS (Russian Segment) video signal from the SONY HDV camera to U.S. NTSC format and Ku-band from SM & Node-3/Cupola, for downlinking as MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoded “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band. [Steps included connecting the SM TVS (television system) to the T61p SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop at the SM CP (Central Post), activating Soyuz TVS, turning on MPEG-2 video Server 2, and monitoring the SM’s TV signal from the ground (Moscow) via Ku-band and the Cupola RWS. The analog signal version of the digital Ku-band downlink is sent to TsUP-Moscow via ESA Gateway at COL-CC (Columbus Orbital Laboratory Control Center) on a Tandberg Decoder. Afterwards, Satoshi turned Server 2 off for the time being.]  Oleg also conducted the regular monthly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization). [This requires inspecting the condition of harnesses, belt slats, corner bracket ropes, SLD (Subject Load Device) cables & exit pulley housing, IRBAs (Isolation Restorative Bungee Assemblies) and gyroscope wire ropes for any damage or defects, lubricating as required plus recording control panel time & date values, and making sure that the display cable and skirt were properly secured afterwards.]  Kononenko performed the periodic image sensor cleaning on the NIKON D3#1 and NIKON D3X#1 digital cameras.[Progress 46P will deliver a Sensor Clear objective lens to be used for checking camera imaging sensor contaminations. In the future, it will allow the crew to clean digital imaging sensors more efficiently. At some point, Nikon changed their imaging sensor technology. Single use wet brushes which were delivered by Soyuz 29S were effective to clean Nikon D2X’s. However, on the more recent Nikon D3X and Nikon D3 cameras they may leave traces of what looks like dried up micro drops at the point where the brush lifts off from the surface or stops in the middle or at the edge of the sensor. This was discovered when Nikon D3X was prepared for the Progress 46P launch.]  Shkaplerov had ~1.5 hrs set aside for using the SONY HVR-Z7E camcorder and the Nikon D2Х & Nikon D3 photo cameras to record more photo & video footage for the Russian “Chronicles” project on the flight of ISS-30 for Telecanal Roskosmos.[Footage subjects generally include conducting experiments, current activities at the station, repair activities behind panels, exercise, cosmonauts looking out the window at the Earth, Earth surface, station interior, cosmonaut in zero gravity, leisure, life on orbit, personal hygiene, meals, station exterior, comm. passes with the ground, ham radio passes, station cleaning, spacesuits, space hardware, MRM1, MRM2, DC1, FGB, Soyuz & Progress, intermodular passageways, meeting a new crew, crewmember in space, medical experiments, handover activities, crew return preparations, farewell ceremonies, etc. The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]  For the undocking of 45P later tonight at 5:10pm EST, Dan Burbank will close the protective shutters of the Lab, Node-3/Cupola and JPM science windows, and André Kuipers will turn off the amateur/ham radio equipment to prevent RF interference with Progress radio.  During the Progress undocking, Oleg & Anton will take video and digital photographs of the GFI-28 Chibis-M MIKROSPUTNIK in 45P. Chibis-M will be deployed from the open, evacuated GrO cargo compartment tomorrow at ~6:19pm.  After the undocking, Oleg will manually close the KVD/PEV (Pressure Equalization Valve) between the DC1 “Pirs” Docking Module and its docking port vestibule.  Dan has another time slot reserved for making entries in their electronic Journal on the personal SSC (Station Support Computer). [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]  Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]  The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4).  Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko & Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were -- A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on Glacier Allalin and on the Volcanoes Santa Maria, Fuego, San Cristobal, Arenal, Poas, Reventador, Tanguraua and Sangay, A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and More preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.  