
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 1A ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep EVA: Today, Koichi Wakata (EV1) and Nicole Mann (EV2) performed the 1A ISS IROSA Prep EVA. Hatch opening occurred at 7:11 AM CT. The main goal of this EVA was to tighten the 1B Mod Kit Collar Bolts, install the IROSA 1B Mod Kit, and route IROSA Cables on the 1A Solar Array Wing (SAW) Mast Canister to prepare these SAWs for future IROSA installations. The final Phase Elapsed Time (PET) from today’s EVA was 7 hours and 21 minutes and the following tasks were completed:

Tighten 1B Mod Kit Collar Bolts to complete IROSA 1B Mod Kit Install
Install IROSA 1A Mod Kit Right Struts

The following task was partially completed:

Install IROSA 1A Mod Kit Left Struts

The following tasks were deferred:

Install IROSA 1A Mod Kit Collars and MLI
Route IROSA Cables on 1A Mast Canister

Payloads:
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4):  The crew performed an audit of the experiment hard drives, and reviewed the familiarization material for the upcoming campaign 15 experiment operations.  PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas:  low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles:  so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Veg-05:  The plants growing in the two Veggie facilities were inspected, watered if necessary, and photographed.  The experiment is growing Red Robin dwarf tomatoes for a little over 3 months and will perform multiple harvests of the fruits produced.  The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Completed Task List Activities:

N/A

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

EMU Data Recorder Operations
CCS TLM HK1 Preempt
HD EMU Camera EVA Operations
MSS Camera Support
Installation of MPCC Ground Node Security Patch
EMU ISLE Prebreathe

