
Payloads:
Biological Experiment Laboratory (BioLab): A crew member cleaned the Biolab Temperature Controlled Units (TCUs) and exchanged the Silica Gel Bags. The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the European Columbus laboratory. The facility is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Bioprint FirstAid: Four Bioprints samples were printed using simulant inks and the hand-held Bioprinter tool. These Samples will later be returned to the ground for analysis. The 3D bioprinting process in the Bioprint FirstAid Handheld Bioprinter (Bioprint FirstAid) enables the rapid use of formerly prepared bio-inks, containing the patient’s own cells, to form a band-aid patch in the case of injury. The printing process requires 10 minutes to obtain an appropriate crosslinking of the Biopolymer and Crosslinker. In the future, the combination of cells, or tissue-specific biomaterials, with different cell types and high-resolution 3D bioprinting can enable scientists to develop new tissue and organ modelling techniques to better understand the biophysical mechanisms of tissue generation, regeneration, and longevity.
Rodent Research-18 (RR-18): Rodent Research Habitat-3 was restocked, and the access unit was cleaned. Astronauts returning from space can experience eye problems, along with headaches and blurred vision. Scientists suspect environmental conditions during spaceflight lead to oxidative stress that adversely affects the eye structure and function. Space Flight Environment Induces Remodeling of Vascular Network and Glia-vascular Communication in Mouse Retina (Rodent Research-18) investigates how spaceflight affects visual function, examining changes in the vascular system of the retina, tissue remodeling and cell-cell interactions in mice.
Veggie Passive Orbital Nutrient Delivery System (PONDS) Validation: A crew member performed operations to fill the reservoir, adjust the lighting, and thin the Plants. Organisms grow differently in space from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food; therefore, understanding how plants respond to microgravity and demonstrating the reliable vegetable production on orbit are important steps toward that goal.  Veggie PONDS uses a newly developed passive nutrient delivery system and the Veggie plant growth facility aboard the ISS to cultivate lettuce and mizuna greens which are to be harvested on-orbit and consumed, with samples returned to Earth for analysis.
Systems: 
Robotics Work Station (RWS) Display and Control Panel (DCP) Checkout: The Mobile Servicing System (MSS) is a robotic system that moves equipment and supplies around the station, supports astronauts working in space, and services instruments and other payloads attached to the ISS. The RWS is the operator interface the crew and ground teams use to perform MSS robotics operations. Today, the crew completed a checkout to verify critical RWS functionality. 
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew verified that the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Extension Hose Tee Kit, Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), and Pre-Breathe Mask are all free of damage to ensure functionality in the case of an emergency. The PBA includes a Quick Don Mask Assembly (QDMA) connected to a PBA Oxygen Reducer/Cylinder Assembly.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Maintenance: As part of routine triannual maintenance, the crew applied Braycote to the Forward Frame Guide Pins and Mounting Block Bushings to ensure that CEVIS can smoothly rotate to a stowed position. The crew uses CEVIS for on-orbit cycling activities as a countermeasure to cardiovascular deconditioning. 
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC): The WHC is a modified ACY (Russian toilet) system that was altered to integrate into a USOS rack. Today, the crew removed and replaced the Urine Receptacle (UR) and its Insert Filter (IF) of the WHC as part of routine preventative maintenance.  The UR is made up of a replaceable Russian supplied funnel, urine hose, and receptacle switch for turning the WHC on/off with associated wiring. After replacement, a functionality test was performed.
Dragon / LAB Space Station Computer (SSC) Swap: SSCs are the laptops associated with non-command activities onboard the ISS. Today, the crew moved SSC 10 from Dragon to LAB and moved SSC 20 from LAB to Dragon. SSCs are swapped regularly to ensure that International Procedures Viewer (IPV) backups are applied to SSCs remaining in Dragon for emergency situations.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Day 3 of X2R20 Transition
HRF Rack 1 Rack Power Down Commanding
Initiating 3 EDV Drains to Resupply Tank (RST) using UTS

