01-25-2009
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday – rest day for CDR Fincke, FE-1 Lonchakov & FE-2 Magnus.  Ahead: Week 14 of Increment 18.  CDR Fincke's first activity this morning was to start on the third and last day of his FD120 (Flight Day 120) session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, the fourth for Mike, after collecting urine samples for the last 24 hrs.  Fincke's next NUTRITION activity will be the FD180 session.    [The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood & urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]   Afterwards, Fincke performed his part of the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, focusing on the USOS (US Orbital Segment).   FE-1 Lonchakov & FE-2 Magnus had preceded him yesterday with their part of “Uborka”.    [Uborka, usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  In the SM, Yuri Lonchakov performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.  Additionally, the FE-1 today checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM's SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP-Moscow.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]  Sandy Magnus completed the daily flushing of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser).    [The PWD had been found, via several microbial analyses by Magnus, to have bacteria growing in the ambient water leg.  Latest microbial results indicate that not enough iodine may get into the system to kill off any microbes, since the amount of 250 mL used lately did not take into account the filter and, as ground testing has shown, it takes about 24 hours for the iodine to convert to iodide when left stagnant in a filter like the one used in the PWD.  The amount of iodinated flush water was increased yesterday to 1 L per flush, through next Wednesday (1/28). Outcome TBD.]   The FE-1 & CDR had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Yuri at 6:15am, Mike at 2:50pm EST.  The station residents completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup & post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  Working off the Russian discretionary “time permitting” suggestions list, the FE-1 conducted another session for Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.  Also from the discretionary task list, Lonchakov performed a session of the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program, using the NIKON D2X digital camera to take telephotos.    [Uplinked target zones were icebergs and glaciers near South Georgia island, perspective view shots of developing major African rifts underlying along the rows of large and small lakes, Patagonia Southern Ice Field glaciers, landscape mapping of South America for educational purposes, and Panama.]  A third voluntary task for Yuri was the routine service on the Matryoshka-R radiation payload via its Lulin-5 electronics box, checking and adjusting date/time, taking readings and entering time tag.  Another suggested task on the “available time” list for the FE-1: the periodic documentary close-up photography of the two SKK materials exposure payloads mounted on the outside of the station,- SKK-2 on the “Pirs” Docking Compartment (DC-1) from SM window #6, and SKK-9 on the SM hull from the DC-1 EVA hatch window.  The digital images were then to be transferred to the RSK-1 laptop's removable hard disk for return to Earth and also downlinked to the ground via OCA.   A discretionary task item on the “job jar” list for CDR Fincke continues to be filling out his fourth FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).  VolSci Update:  The CDR received words of thanks for operating the LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System) payload yesterday and “being the first to use Gram+ cartridges aboard the ISS.”    [These cartridges detect "Gram-positive" bacteria, a group of bacteria predominant on spacecraft cabin surfaces and which test 'positive' with the Gram stain (developed by Danish microbiologist Hans Christian Gram in 1884).  The Gram+ LOCAD cartridges provide a miniaturized molecular test for Gram-positive bacteria.  Mike's results yesterday “showed that all four JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) surface sites contain low/zero levels of Gram-positive bacteria; similar to the low/zero levels found pre-flight at KSC.  We shall share this data with our JAXA colleagues, who will be happy to learn that the JEM PM has remained 'clean' from a biological perspective.  Thanks again for volunteering to operate LOCAD.”]  No CEO photo targets uplinked for today.  CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  <http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/>  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  