
FIR/LMM/Biophysics-5 Configuration: While the crew was installing Biophysics-5 plate number 3 into the FIR/LMM (Fluids Integrated Rack/Light Microscopy Module), they noted some condensate on the plate and its capillaries.  When they attempted to blot the condensate with a lint-free cloth, one of the capillaries was broken and the plate was bagged for safety reasons.  The team has additional plates in cold stowage and is assessing a forward plan.  LMM/Biophyscs-5, more correctly known as Solution Convection and the Nucleation Precursors in Protein Crystallization, tests whether solution convection – the movement of molecules through the fluid – enhances or suppresses formation of the dense liquid clusters from which crystals form.  This should help to determine why protein crystallization investigations in microgravity often generate unexpectedly low or high numbers of crystals.
Fluid Shifts:  Today when the crew performed a Fluid Shifts Chibis imaging session, some video issues were reported with the ultrasound system. Ground teams are looking into possible causes and resolution for the video issues, but have reported a partial science loss as a result. Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging with Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure). The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
The ISS Experience:  The crew participated in the crew conference and the ground uplinked the file needed for the firmware update.  Although the ISS Experience computer application and camera both powered up and responded nominally, the firmware file could not be loaded onto the camera.  The teams are discussing it, but believe the firmware file may have been corrupted during uplink. ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the space station. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved.  The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic VR (Virtual Reality) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Checkout: Following the bonding strap installation Tuesday of last week, the crew and ground initiated a checkout of the MSPR DC/DC Converter Unit 2 (DCU2) and Video compression and Recording Unit 2 (VRU2). The MSPR is a multipurpose payload rack system used in the JEM. The MSPR has two workspaces and a work table that can be used for wide fields of space environment utilization including science and educational missions. 
Direct Current Switching Unit (DCSU) 3B Power On Reset: Friday evening, DCSU 3B experienced a power on reset. All loads downstream of Channel 3B Direct Current-to-Direct Current Converter Units (DDCU) Z13B and S03B were subsequently unpowered. Significant loads lost during this event included Control Moment Gyro (CMG)-3, American to Russian Converter Unit (ARCU)-51, half of the Node1 lights, Node1 and Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)-1 B String Heaters, half of the Node 1 Intra-Module Valve (IMV) fans, and a Node 1 smoke detector. Ground teams successfully executed recovery procedures in order to safe critical systems then reactivated hardware that was unpowered during the event. A similar DCSU 3B power on reset was previously experienced in 2012. 
Completed Task List Activities:

EVA Iodine Compatible Water Container Move (Completed GMT 019)
Fluid Shifts Big Picture Words Review (Completed GMT 019)
PMM Hygiene Cover Modification (Completed GMT 019)
Capillary Structures Hardware Audit (Completed GMT 020)
Clean Bench (CB) Valve Checkout (Completed GMT 020)
Plug-in Plan (PiP) AC Inverter Deploy in Cupola (Completed GMT 020)
I-STAT – SOFTWARE DATE ROLLBACK (Completed GMT 020)
ACDU Cable Reconfiguration (Completed GMT 020)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test (Completed GMT 020)
Remove Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assemblies (CPA) (Completed GMT 020)
In Flight Maintenance Duct Removal (Completed GMT 020)
JAXA Medical Laptop Cable Connection (Completed GMT 020)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test(Completed GMT 021)
ACDU Cable Reconfiguration (Completed GMT 021)
Capillary Structures Hardware Audit (Completed GMT 021)
Plug in Plan Wanted Poster (Completed GMT 021)
Cygnus Cargo Operations (In Work)

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Nominal System Commanding

