
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR):  The CIR Manifold #4 Bottle was swapped out with a bottle containing 100% C2H4.  The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Concrete Hardening:  The Maintenance Work Area (MWA) was cleared in preparation of the Concrete Hardening experiment.  Material Science on the Solidification of Concrete (Concrete Hardening) investigates how lack of gravity affects the hardening process and resulting properties of concrete.  Different mixtures of cement, water, sand, simulated lunar regolith, and other additives are mixed and left to harden in microgravity.  Analysis of material strength, bubble, and pore distribution, as well as crystal structures in comparison with ground samples, will help in the development of materials for construction of habitats in lunar or planetary exploration.
Dreams:  The Dreams headband hardware was connected to the European Physiology Module laptop and data transfer was initiated.  Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep, or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance.  DREAMS is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the ISS.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-20 (J-SSOD-20):  A crewmember removed the Launch Lock Covers, installed the Multi Satellite Install Case Multi-Layer Insulation (MLI) Cover, and performed a video tour.  The Light-1 CubeSat focuses on the detection of Terrestrial Gamma-ray Flashes (TGFs) coming from the Earth’s atmosphere.  This feat is achieved by utilizing two detectors that are integrated onboard a compact 3-Unit (3U) satellite bus, proving to be extremely efficient in terms of cost, manufacturing, and assembly time.  Light-1 is deployed as a part of the J-SSOD-20 micro-satellite deployment mission and launched to the International Space Station aboard the SpaceX-24 Dragon Cargo Vehicle. GT-1 is a 1.14 kg 1U CubeSat with experimental deployable solar panels and a deployable UHF radio antenna. The GT-1 mission demonstrates a rapid cradle-to-grave lifecycle of a university level CubeSat.
Metabolic Space:  A crewmember performed a CEVIS exercise session with Metabolic Space protocols and hardware.  The aim of the Metabolic Space experiment is to perform a technology demonstration of cardio-pulmonary diagnosis in space during physical activities of astronauts living aboard the International Space Station, while maintaining unrestricted mobility.  This is achieved with a wearable measurement system that is directly worn by an astronaut.  For this, a customized space qualified version of the MetaMax3B system, from the company Cortex, is used as basis. The Team develops any other equipment needed.
MOCHII:  A crewmember opened the MOCHII Microscope Sample Chamber and retrieved the loose screw inside.  MOCHII is a miniature scanning electron microscope (SEM) with spectroscopy to conduct real-time, on-site imaging and compositional measurements of particles on the ISS. Such particles can cause vehicle and equipment malfunctions and threaten crew health, but currently, samples must be returned to Earth for analysis, leaving crew and vehicle at risk. MOCHII also provides a powerful new analysis platform to support novel microgravity science and engineering.
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer-22 (NRCSD-22):  The NRCSD-22 hardware was removed from the Multipurpose Experiment Platform (MPEP ).  The NRCSD is a self-contained CubeSat deployer system that mechanically and electrically isolates CubeSats and has been in operation since 2014.  Five satellites will be deployed for the NRCSD-22 mission: GASPACS (Get Away Special Passive Attitude Control Satellite), FEES2 (Flexible Experimental Embedded Satellite #2), PATCOOL (PAssiveThermal Coating Observatory Operating in Low earth orbit), DAILI (Daily Atmospheric Ionospheric Limb Imager), and TARGIT (Tethering And Ranging mission of the Georgia Institute of Technology).  The Satellites will be released in 4 deployments with goals of studying the use of inflatable booms, a miniaturized LIDAR system, passive cooling using surface coatings, etc.
Systems: 
Water Recovery System (WRS) Contingency Water Container (CWC)-Iodine Fill: The CWC is a soft container with an inner bladder that can store a variety of liquids including humidity condensate, wastewater, and other unique fluids such as Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) wastewater. Originally, CWCs were used for the transport and resupply of potable water from the shuttle to the ISS.  Today’s activity involved transferring water from the Potable Bus into a CWC-Iodine container using the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD). Iodine was added to purify the water. The crew monitored the offload time as a secondary control to protect the CWC-Iodine from over-pressurization.
Crew Arrival Preparations: Axiom Mission 1 (Ax-1) is scheduled to launch at the end of March with the objective of transporting four Private Astronauts, including one previously flown NASA astronaut, on a SpaceX Crew Dragon to stay aboard the ISS for approximately ten days. This will be the first all-private crew to visit the space station. Today, the on-orbit crew began staging the first use supplies and other preference items for the Ax-1 crew.
Extravehicular Activities (EVA) Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) Torque Analyzer Kit (TAK) Calibration: A PGT is a self-contained, microprocessor controlled, battery powered, 3/8-inch drive handheld tool used for almost all bolt-driving operations during EVAs. This tool was originally designed for EVA operations on the Hubble Telescope and was adapted for use on ISS structures.  Today, the TAK was used to collect a total of five data points for each PGT setting to characterize torque trends and evaluate whether the PGT needs to be adjusted for accuracy.  Ensuring the PGTs are well-calibrated also helps extend their lifetimes. 
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Robotics On-Board Trainer (ROBoT) Operations: ROBoT allows the ISS crew to practice Mobile Servicing System (MSS) operational scenarios using a set of non-flight hardware hand controllers. Today, the crew removed and replaced the Rotational Hand Controller (RHC) which is connected to a Station Support Computer (SSC). The RHC was then recalibrated to ensure accuracy during operations.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Maneuver to Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM)
Robotics On-Board Trainer (ROBoT) Simulation Setup in Preparation for ROBoT
Water Recovery System CWC-Iodine Fill Support

