
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) SmoothNav: The crew set up the SPHERES work area to activate and check out the hardware and EXPRESS laptop computer (ELC) before conducting the SmoothNav experiment run. SmoothNav develops an estimation algorithm aggregating relative state measurements between multiple, small, and potentially differently instrumented spacecraft. The algorithm obtains the most probable estimate of the relative positions and velocities between all spacecraft using all available sensor information, including past measurements. The algorithm remains portable between different satellite platforms with different onboard sensors, adaptable in the case that one or more satellites become inoperable, and tolerant to delayed measurements or measurements received at different frequencies.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Configuration Change: The crew changed the configuration of the CBEF and cleaned the inside of the incubator unit to prepare the facility for the Mouse Stress Defense investigation arriving on SpaceX-14. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) sub-rack facility located in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack. The CBEF is used in various life science experiments, such as cultivating cells and plants in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) and consists of an incubator and control equipment for control and communications.
Tropical Cyclone: The crew configured the camera settings in the Cupola to take untended images of the Category 4 Typhoon Cebile in the Southern Indian Ocean. The Tropical Cyclone investigation captures images of tropical cyclones and hurricanes that are rated at Category 3 or greater on the Saffir-Simpson scale. A pseudo-stereoscopic method is used to determine the altitudes of the cloud tops near the center (eye) of a cyclone by precisely tracking the apparent positions of cloud features with respect to the Earth and how those positions change over time as an observer (the ISS in this case) passes over the storm. The photographic images will be used to demonstrate that pseudo-spectroscopy can be used to measure the cloud altitudes to sufficient precision so that, when combined with other remote-sensing data, an accurate determination of the intensity of hurricane or cyclone can be made. 
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Water Sampling:  Today the crew sampled fluid from the ITCS for return and analysis on the ground.  This is regularly scheduled preventive maintenance to verify health of the ITCS.
Eye exams:  The crew completed routine OCT and Fundoscope eye exams today.  Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Tropical Cyclone Untended Operations
Tropical Cyclone Hardware Closeout
ISS CREW/SSIPC CONFERENCE
OCT Laptop Ethernet Cable Swap
Columbus ITCS water sample  using Columbus Coolant Fluid Servicer for Return to Ground
Preparing comm assets for EVA Training
Air Duct Disassembly in DC1 before Training (without removal of В3 fan)
Retrieve ECOM Adapter for RS EVA 44 use.
Orlan MKS No.4 Systems Checkout during pre-EVA Training
Environmental Health System (EHS) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collect
JEM System Laptop Terminal Reboot
COL1D1 FWD cargo restore.
Orlan Interface Unit (БСС) Check in DC1.
SPHERES Crew Conference
Donning Gear
SPHERES Test Session Setup
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Configuration Change
Comm check and medical parameter check
Orlan Systems и БСС Checkout during pre-EVA training
Entry into Orlan No.4, No.6, and sealing off backpacks
Suited Pre-EVA training – Assistance
Environmental Health System (EHS) Coliform Water Processing
Orlan Suit and Orlan Interface Unit (БСС) Controls Check
Orlan and БСС preliminary leak check
Orlan Fit Check at Suit Pressure = 0.4
JEM Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Collection
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Wipe Previous to Mouse breed
Suited Exercise Dry Run in Orlan-MKS No.4 and Orlan-MK No.6.
COL1O3 Hardware Relocate
Exit Orlan
COL1O4 HRF Hardware Relocate
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Fixation Fastener Repair
Reconfig comm assets after EVA Training
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Setup
SPHERES VERTIGO Test Session Run
Post-exercise cleanup, air duct assembly
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Waste Water Bag (WWB) Changeout
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Exam
Installation of Orlan-MKS No.4 ORUs for before EVA
Installation of Orlan-MK No.6 ORUs before EVA
БК-3М oxygen tank replacement
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Stow
Installation of GoPro 360 camera No.1 on the H/R inside DC1
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Node 3 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Collection
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Eye Exam – Fundoscope
SPHERES USB Download
Post-Exercise Hygiene Procedure
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Tear Down and Stow

Completed Task List Activities

Station Support Computer (SSC) 5 and 23 Swap

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Standard commanding.

