
Kubik: Today a crewmember upgraded hardware for the Kubik-6 unit. Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator or cooler with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic microgravity experiments such as those using seeds, cells, and small animals.
NanoRacks External Cygnus CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD): Today a crewmember installed NRCSD-15 deployer with the 5 planned cubesats onto the Multipurpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) located on the JEM Airlock slide table. CubeSat deployments are planned to occur tomorrow morning. The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer is a stackable, modular, ground loaded launch case. Each NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer accommodates up to 6.5U and eight launch cases are stacked for each JEM Airlock opening. The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer meets the growing demand to deploy CubeSat format satellites from the ISS for a variety of customers. 
Bio-Monitor: Today a crewmember doffed the spare Bio-Monitor wearable hardware and stowed the hardware completing a 48-hour data gathering session. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way.
Circadian Rhythms: Today a crewmember donned on the Circadian Rhythms hardware to begin a 36-hour recording session. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. 
Node 3 Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning: Flow measurements taken in October identified reduced air flow to the Cupola from Node 3. Today as part of routine maintenance, the crew cleaned the Node 3 deck IMV starboard fan inlet flow straighteners, inlet silencer, and outlet silencer.
Completed Task List Activities:

Install the T2 breakout cable to aid in T2 software troubleshooting.
ARED Exercise Bench Inspect (Active)

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Battery 4A3 Reconditioning (Ongoing)
CubeSat Deployer Install

Two Day Look Ahead:  
Thursday, 01/31
Payloads:


Bio-Monitoring hardware stow (CSA)
MSPR Florescence Microscope install (JAXA)
NRCSD-15 Deploy photography (NASA)
ACME hardware replacement (NASA)
Lighting Effects Post sleep Log (NASA)

Systems

Cygnus Cargo Operations

Friday, 02/01
Payloads:


Circadian Rhythms doff (ESA)
ISS Experience hardware setup (NASA)
Lighting Effects post sleep log (NASA)
CIR/ACME part 2 reconfiguration (NASA)

Systems

Node 3 Toilet Stall Installation

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Actiwatch Plus Evaluation Display Check
Bio-Monitor Wearables Data Transfer And Removal
Bio-Monitor Wearables Stow
Combustion Integrated Rack Hardware Gather [DEFERRED]
Inspection of the Columbus PPRA and CDA valves
Deck 3 clean up before KUBIK activities
Columbus Return Grid Sensor Housing Internal Cleaning
Circadian Rhythms Instrumentation Donning
Mission: Astronaut
Acrobatics in Space
Record video of 1 orbit of Earth for CSA outreach
Record video for CSA about physical activity in space
Water in Space – Q&A
We Day Event – Montreal
FIRST Robotics Competition
CubeSat Deploy Review
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer Installation on the MPEP
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer Hardware Gather
NREP XF305 Video Setup
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 3 Deck Starboard Inter-module Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 3 Inter Module Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning Prep
IMS Delta File Prep
JEM Airlock Depressurization
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Retraction from JPM Side
JEM Airlock Vent
Kubik 6 Electronics installation
Kubik 6 Setup
Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry Subject
Meteor Hard Drive Swapout
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
Rodent Research Inventory Audit-1
Team Task Switching Experiment Surveys
Preparation for FCR No.R109 (spare) with NALB board firmware upgrade.
FCR No.R109 (spare) Firmware Upgrade to SM SW Version 08.10 using Firmware Upgrade Panel (ППВС).
Deactivation of standby mode in Regul-[OC] Radio Control and Communication System [РСУС] set 1 and 2
DUBRAVA. VSS Calibration.
SCENARIY. Observation and photography using Photo Equipment
Photos of interior for RS ISS Modules
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
DAN. Experiment Session.
INTER-MAI-75. Equipment deactivation and cleanup
INTER-MAI-75. HAM Radio Hardware Activation.
URYSIS Hardware Setup
СОЖ Maintenance
Recharging Soyuz 741 Samsung PC (if charge level below 80%)
VIZIR. Checking P/L equipment network connection.

 