
76 Progress Undock: The Russian 76P cargo vehicle successfully departed ISS from the Russian Segment DC-1 port.  ISS successfully maneuvered to the +ZVV undocking attitude on USOS US Thrusters Only (USTO) control. Upon vehicle departure, ISS was maneuvered back to the +XVV Torque Equilibrium Attitude (TEA) and the ISS Motion Control System (MCS) transitioned to Momentum Management (MM).
Payloads
3DMM: The crew collected swab samples from the US lab and Node 1. This investigation will conduct a series of over 1000 swab sample collections throughout several modules of the International Space Station. Surfaces in the space station contain microbes and associated biomolecules excreted by these microorganisms. Three-dimensional Microbial Mapping of ISS Environment (3DMM) uses DNA sequencing and other analyses to construct a 3D map of bacteria and bacterial products throughout the station. The team also plans to characterize how these microbes respond at a molecular level to specific stress conditions, including altered gravity and atmospheric composition.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew performed the necessary steps to exchange the sample holder and remove/replace the debris bag. JAXA’s ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method. With this facility thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. ELF typically processes oxide samples, but is also capable of processing semiconductors, alloys, and metals.
Freezer/Refrigerator/Incubator Device for Galley and Experimentation (FRIDGE):  In order to continue the checkout of the Fridge units at lower temperatures, the crew transferred the contents from FRIDGE2 to FRIDGE 1.  FRIDGE is a locker-sized unit that provides active temperature control with a range from -20.0°C to +48.0°C. It can accommodate storage of both crew galley items and scientific research samples and can be fully operated and maintained from the ground.
ISS HAM pass:  The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with Sterling Middle School in Loudoun County, Virginia.  Some of the questions asked by the students included which personal items the crew is allowed to bring to space, how astronauts respond when they are sick in space, and how astronauts stay healthy in space.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Plant Water Management (PWM): The crew refilled the PWM soil experiment hardware with water to start a second 24 hour experiment session. The Plant Water Management investigation demonstrates passive measures for controlling fluid delivery and uptake in plant growth systems. Reduced gravity creates challenges in providing adequate fluid and nutrition for plant growth. This investigation examines using other physical properties such as surface tension, wetting and system geometry to replace the role of gravity.
Story Time from Space (STFS): The crew set up the appropriate equipment to record a reading of the book Give me Some Space.  Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the International Space Station (ISS). Crew members read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crew members videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Vection:  The crew set up the appropriate hardware and performed a Vection experiment session.  Vection is made up of 3 tasks that test how orientation perception, motion processing, and depth perception are affected by long duration 0g and return to 1g. The objective of the study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, and how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
Systems
Nanoracks Airlock (NRAL) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Valve Installation – the crew performed the installation of the Node 3 Port Forward and Port Aft IMV Valves.  During the installation the crew encountered two issues.  The first was that the planned orientation of the forward valve did not allow the Remote Manual Override (RMO) flex shaft to be connected due to insufficient length.  The flex shaft was able to be adjusted with enough margin to fit which also led to further adjustments for the electrical cables.  Potential cable chaff points have been taped with glass cloth tape.  The Aft valve did not have any issues with the flex shaft engagement.  The second issue was the J2 data connector could not be mated to either IMV valve, as the backshell of this connector interferes with the adjacent J1 data connector.  Ground teams were able to develop a procedure to loosen the backshells of the connectors and reorient them for successful mating.  Crew completed a manual checkout of the IMV valve positions and closed the Node 3 Port hatch to begin a 9 hour leak check.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R):  Today, the crew removed and replaced the WHC Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter.  After replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was performed and the WHC was declared operational.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: Crew performed an analysis of the water processing assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Structural Dynamics Measurement System (SDMS) Data Dump
Attitude Control Subsystem (ACS) Configuration Controller Database (CCDB) Attitude Update
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Walkoff to Lab PDGF

