
Portable 3D Printer Operations:  Kelly set up the Portable 3D Printer in the Lab and initiated a fabrication process that completed successfully.  The unit, with the fabricated item, was then stowed for return to the Earth.  The Agenzia Spaziale Italiana (ASI) Portable 3D printer may be used to manufacture small plastic pieces to be used for a variety of tasks. Results from this experiment may pave the way for the installation of a full-sized 3-D printer on board the ISS in the future.
 
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Maintenance:  Kelly completed the first of three planned days of Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) reconfiguration in the CIR.  He removed the MDCA Chamber Insert Assembly and placed it on the Maintenance Work Area.  During the multi-day reconfiguration he will replace the needles, fuel reservoirs, igniter tips and the fiber arm. The CIR reconfiguration activities performed this week are to prepare it for runs of the FLEX-2 experiment next week.  The CIR is used to perform combustion experiments in microgravity.  FLEX-2 studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning.  The results from these experiments are expected to give scientists a better understanding of how fires behave in space and will provide information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines that use liquid fuels.
 
Education Payloads Operations (EPO) – AstroPi:  Peake set up the European Space Agency (ESA) AstroPI Vis in the Columbus starboard cone and the payload will then autonomously run a pre-defined sequence of program files.  AstroPi is composed of RaspberryPi B+, Sense HAT (Hardware Attached on Top) and a camera module, contained within a protective aluminum case.  Raspberry Pi is a credit-card sized computer that enables students to explore computing and learn how to program. Two AstroPi are on board: AstroPi Vis, with visible light camera, and AstroPi IR, with an infrared camera.  Both AstroPi will run programs written by the winners of a student competition and collect data from sensors (i.e., inertial movement, barometric pressure, relative humidity and temperature). The data will be shared with schools.
 
Story Time from Space:  Scott Kelly read from the book Mousetronaut, written by his twin brother Mark Kelly, and discussed the subject on camera.  The video recording will be downlinked to the ground and used for educational purposes.
 
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Cargo Operations:  Kopra transferred trash from ISS into Cygnus today.  An estimated 6.0 hours remain to complete the trash loading.  Cygnus is scheduled to unberth from ISS on February 19th.
 
Water Sampling:  Peake collected samples from the USOS Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) and the Service Module Water Dispensers then performed microbial testing using a MIcrobial Capture Device (MCD) and coliform detection bags.  The samples will be returning to the ground by way of Soyuz 44 next month.
 
Extravehicular Activities (EVA) Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) Torque Analyzer Kit (TAK) Data Gather:  Kopra  installed the TAK onto each of the PGTs and recorded their torque output for ground analysis.  This activity is part of a 6-month requirement for all on-orbit PGTs.
 
Food Warmer Inspection:  Kopra performed an annual food warmer inspection for the unit located in Node 1.  As part of the inspection, he reported no abnormal wear on the unit and performed a successful powered functional test.
 
Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Status:  OGA experienced a fault associated with its H2 sensor yesterday afternoon.  Ground Teams have since analyzed the data and have scheduled a change out of the H2 sensor to occur tomorrow morning. Oxygen levels remain within limits and the Russian Segment Elektron System is operating nominally.  There are currently two spare sensors on-orbit.
 
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Fault:  This afternoon the Lab CDRA faulted due to the Air Selector Valve (ASV)-4 valve not reaching the correct position.  Flight Controllers are working to recover.  Amine Swingbed is being activated to help manage carbon dioxide levels. The Node 3 CDRA experienced a fault with its Fan Motor Controller on January 19th and is currently deactivated.  The Russian Vozdukh will be deactivated tomorrow for the Russian EVA.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Review of [ВКС] Laptops Antivirus Scanning Results and Report
On MCC Go Ф2 БМП Absorption Cartridge Regeneration
Taking PILLE Dosimeters Readings
Log out of SSC12 prior to Ground Operations with Radiation Sensors
Water Samples Collection for an On-orbit Chemical/Microbial Analysis
ST – Photography
Fine Motor Skills – Experiment (Subject)
Filling (separation) of EDV (КОВ) for Elektron or EDV-SV. If required, separate EDV KOV No. 1106
PILLE Dosimeters Preparation and Installation prior to the EVA
P/TV – XF305 Camcorder Setup
СОЖ Maintenance
Vacuum Cleaning of КВД and КСД Valves Grilles prior to the EVA
Water Samples Collection from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD)
ИП-1 Sensors Installation Monitoring
Filling and Installation of a Drinking Bag in SS ORLAN-MK (if required)
TOCA – PWD Sample Analysis
On MCC Go Post-deactivation Elektron Purge. Tagup with specialists to close [ВН2] of the Interface Unit БС of Elektron
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
POP3D – 3D Printer Ops
EPO – Procedures Review
Crew Handover Conference
Cygnus Cargo Transfer
EPO – Hardware Setup
POP3D – Hardware Stowage
Cygnus Cargo Operations Conference
Review of an Updated EVA Timeline
IDENTIFIKATSIYA. Downloading of ИМУ-Ц Measurement Results to the Laptop
STFS – Photography
ST – Procedure Review
PGT Torque Analyzer Kit Data Collection
Recording Data from TOCA PWD Analysis
Microbial Capture Devices (MCD) Water Processing
Т2 Monthly Inspection
JRNL – Journal Entry
CIR – Rack Doors Opening
CONTENT. Experiment Operations
CIR – Combustion Chamber Opening
MDCA – Hardware Transfer (Part 1)
VZAIMODEISTVIYE-2. Experiment Operations
Food Warmer Inspection and Maintenance
Logging out of SSC12 prior to Radiation Dosimeters Operations from the Ground
Evening Work Prep
ISS HAM – ISS HAM Radio Deactivation
On MCC Go Ф2 БМП Absorption Cartridge Regeneration
Reminder – Habitability Walk-Through Video

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal System Commanding
JEM RMS Operations Small Fine Arm (SFA) installation to SFA Stowage Equipment (SSE)

 
