
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 Status:  Yesterday, ATV experienced a failure with Battery Power Chain #4.  ATV ground teams have confirmed the failure is real and not a sensor issue.  The ground teams have taken the necessary precautions and are continuing their investigation.  The vehicle has a total of four power chains.  Should a second power chain failure occur, an expedited undocking would be required within 24 hours per ATV Flight Rules.   Break Up Camera (BUC) and Reentry Breakup Recorder (REBR) are currently scheduled to be installed inside ATV next week with a nominal undocking occurring on Saturday, February 14th.
Advanced Plant Experiment (APEX)-03-1:  Wilmore inserted six APEX sample #5 fixation tube kits into the Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).   APEX-03-1 continues a highly successful investigation into the effects of microgravity on the development of roots and cells on plant seedlings. The experiment photographs seedlings of Arabidopsis, or thale cress, every two hours as they grow in petri dishes. After 14 days, the seedlings are preserved for return to Earth and detailed analysis.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (JSSOD) Preparation:  Cristoforetti performed the crew activities to depress and vent the JEMAL in support of the JSSOD deploy scheduled for tomorrow at 6:45am CST.
Micro-5 EXPRESS Rack (ER)-8:  Virts removed Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus (CGBA)-5 from ER-8 and packed it for return on SpaceX-5.  The crew then installed a locker into the ER-8 open location. 
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixtures (CSLM)-4:  Virts initiated data transfer from the CSLM-4 hard drive to the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Laptop Computer (MLC). Crew then verified data transfer was successful, removed the final Sample Processing Unit (SPU), and powered down CSLM-4.  CSLM-4 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount (low volume fraction) of tin branch-like (i.e., dendritic) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature (i.e., isothermal) conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:   Wilmore, Virts and Cristoforetti conducted a review of translation paths utilizing Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software loads for all three planned EVAs.  They then studied procedures associated with each of the EVAs and conducted a conference with ground specialists to answer any questions.  Later in the their day, they manually removed gas from Payload Water Reservoirs (PWR) then gathered hardware in preparation for upcoming Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 troubleshooting.  The PWR de-gas is needed to limit the amount of gas introduced into the suit when the crew refills the EMU water tanks.
Synchronization and Control Unit (SCU)-2:  Today, SCU-2 experienced a sync issue which prevented the ability to control and route the ISS cameras.  Initial attempts to recover the SCU were not successful.  Flight Controllers then switched to the alternate controller (SCU-1) in order to restore functionality.  Later in the day, additional troubleshooting steps were performed and the team was able to recover SCU-2 sync.  The SCU remains powered in standby mode in order for ground teams to monitor its health and status.  Two on orbit spares are available, should a replacement be required.    
Node 1 Nadir Berthing Port Vestibule Leak Check:  The 24 hour vestibule leak check was completed successfully following yesterday’s installation of the new feed through connector on the Node 1 Nadir bulkhead.   The new connector will allow redundant power feeds for future visiting vehicles docked to the Node 2 Nadir Port.    
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are completed unless otherwise noted.


APEX-03 MELFI Sample Insertion
BAR. Experiment Ops
Filling (Separation) of EDV (KOV) No.10 п.36 (00050801R, ФГБ1ПГО_4_404_1)  for Elektron or EDV-SV
MRM2 comm config to support voice comm for the experiment
JEM Airlock Depress
Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Run
CSLM2-SPU Removal
Water Analysis and Processing
Comm reconfig for nominal ops
KULONOVSKYI KRISTALL. Copy and Downlink Data
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops
EVA2 Procedure Review
DOUG Software Review
Changeout of Elektron purification column assembly (БКО)
Study of Cardiovascular System Under Graded Physical Load on VELO.
JEM Airlock – Leak Check
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Water Sample
Locating Equipment to assemble the setup and conduct PCE tests / r/g 7885 step 1
SEISMOPROGNOZ
Preparing SM panels 225 and 226 for PCE installation / r/g 7885 step 2
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
JEM Airlock Vent Confirmation
PROBOY
Transmission of Color PAL Signal for Orion Ground Station 35 Test. То=14:10
EVA Procedure Conference
Cleaning FGB ГЖТ Detachable Screens 1, 2, 3
EMU PWR Degassing
WRS-WPA – Deactivation
BCAT Camera Checkout
PROBOY. Copy and Downlink Data
Node 1 Nadir Connector Leak Check. Part 1.
CSLM-2 SPU Final Removal
Downlink of Color PAL Signal for Orion Ground Station 35 Test. То=15:47 /
IFM-WHC – Deactivation
OTKLIK. Hardware Check
Soyuz 715 (41S) voltage measurement
PMM Equipment Restow after PMM isolation
MSG – Powerdown
MICRO5. Crew removes CGBA-5 from the EXPRESS Rack and stows it in preparation for return.
Gathering Hardware in prep for the EMU-3011-T/S
EXPRESS Rack Locker Install
WRS-WPA – Activation Part 1
IFM-WHC – Activation
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Download data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (end) and start archiving
Re-connecting Cables on Network Channel Controller [КСК2] from Payload Interface Monitoring Unit (БКИПН) to PCE. 
WRS-WPA – Activation Part 2

Completed Task List Items

ATV Cargo Ops [In work]

Ground Activities
All activities are completed unless otherwise noted.


JEM Airlock depressurization in preparation for JSSOD deploy
N3-2 MDM EEPROM Refresh

