
Payloads:
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew performed the steps necessary to remove the processed boron carbide-stainless steel (B4C-SS) samples and install the next set of samples to be processed. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in Kibo.
Fluid Dynamics in Space (FLUIDICS): The experiment On-Board Training (OBT) package was reviewed, and the experiment hardware was set up. A nominal power-up did not initially occur due to a suspected switch misconfiguration. Today’s science run was deferred to perform additional troubleshooting actions, switch reconfiguration, and system restart, and the system is in a good configuration for science tomorrow. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position in relation to a temperature gradient on a model fuel tank system. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
ISS Ham: The crew participated in an ISS Ham pass with Cache County School District, Millville, UT, USA. Some of the questions asked by the students included which part of the job astronauts look most forward to, how many repairs the ISS requires on a daily basis, and if plants grown in space are similar in size to plants grown on the ground. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Plant Habitat-03A: The crew gained access to the plant growth chamber and closed the tops of the seed bags. This was performed to help prevent plant entanglement. They also added water to the system as needed. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food and air and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Standard Measures: Various samples were collected in support of the Standard Measures investigation. Spaceflight Standard Measures (Standard Measures) collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crew members until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes and support future research on planetary missions.
Systems:
81P Undocking: Last night, the Russian cargo vehicle, 81 Progress (81P), undocked from the ISS Service Module aft port at 10:56 PM CT. The deorbit burn occurred at 2:04 AM CT followed by atmospheric entry and destruction. Progress telemetry was lost at 2:38 AM CT and burn up occurred shortly thereafter. 
Toilet Operations: Today, the crew began a series of Toilet tech demo operations, beginning with a Big Picture Words (BPW) review and an EDV Remove and Replace (R&R) for a 12-day crew-use test. The Toilet Air Filter and Urine Filter were R&Red. After the Pre-Treat Tank outlet valve was opened, the stall was outfitted per stowage note and crew preference. The Toilet system was then activated, and the Pre-Treat Dose Pump was checked out to verify nominal performance. Lastly, the Urine Transfer System (UTS) hose was configured such that the Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) feeds directly into the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA).
SpaceX Crew Dragon Emergency Response Training: Today, the Endurance crew reviewed the Free Flight Contingencies and Emergencies, Deorbit Entry and Landing Contingencies, Free-Flight Fire Response, Free-Flight Depress Response, and Emergency Departure Refresher training. The onboard reviews will ensure the crew’s training is current in the event of an emergency on the space station. 
Emergency Simulation On-Board Training (OBT): The crew reviewed Emergency OBT Simulator Functionality to ensure systems are functional and their training is current in the event of an emergency on the space station. Tomorrow, the crew will perform emergency response drills.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Filter R&R: The PWD filter On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) is composed of a de-iodination and microbial filter, which needs periodic replacement. The crew removed and replaced the PWD’s filter and cleaned the exhaust fans’ outlets as part of preventive maintenance.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

ACS RS Undock Cleanup
VDS Progress UnDocking Deconfiguration
Crew Dragon Awake Mode
TCS S1 TRRJ Reposition

