
Payloads:
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF-L): The Plant Experiment Unit (PEU) was detached from the CBEF-L Incubator Unit. CBEF-L is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original CBEF currently aboard the ISS. CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High-Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-20 (J-SSOD-20): Photos were taken of the deployed satellites from Launcher 2. The Light-1 CubeSat focuses on the detection of Terrestrial Gamma-ray Flashes (TGFs) coming from the Earth’s atmosphere. This feat is achieved by utilizing two detectors that are integrated onboard a compact 3-Unit (3U) satellite bus, proving to be extremely efficient in terms of cost, manufacturing, and assembly time. Light-1 is deployed as a part of the J-SSOD #20 micro-satellite deployment mission and was launched to the International Space Station aboard the SpaceX-24 Dragon Cargo Vehicle. GT-1 is a 1.14 kg 1U CubeSat with experimental deployable solar panels and a deployable UHF radio antenna. The GT-1 mission demonstrates a rapid cradle-to-grave lifecycle of a university level CubeSat.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): The crew reconfigured the MSG Feedthroughs back into the standard configuration from the last payload that was installed. The Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) is a rack-level payload facility located in the U.S. Laboratory module on the International Space Station (ISS). MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen, and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present. MSG is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
Retinal Diagnostics:  Crewmembers executed the Retinal Diagnostics measurements. The DLR-EAC Retinal Diagnostics Study (Retinal Diagnostics) utilizes a commercially available ophthalmology lens, approved for routine clinical use with mobile devices, to capture images of the human retina in space. The videos/images are downlinked to test and train models to detect retinal pathologies common among astronauts.
Rodent Research-18 (RR-18): Crewmembers performed Rodent ops, Habitat restock and Access Unit cleaning. Astronauts returning from space can experience eye problems, along with headaches and blurred vision. Scientists suspect environmental conditions during spaceflight lead to oxidative stress that adversely affects the eye structure and function. Space Flight Environment Induces Remodeling of Vascular Network and Glia-vascular Communication in Mouse Retina (Rodent Research-18) investigates how spaceflight affects visual function, examining changes in the vascular system of the retina, tissue remodeling and cell-cell interactions in mice.
VECTION: The VECTION hardware was deployed, and a crewmember performed a data collection session. The objective of the study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, and how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
Systems:
PS-120 Junction Box and AC Inverter Deploy to LAB Utility Output Panel (UOP): The crew deployed a new PS-120 Junction Box and AC Inverter to LAB UOP8-J4 to support future Payloads and System operations. Plugging into and receiving power from the Utility Output Panel, the PS-120 Junction Box provides four switched outlets, each sized for 120 VDC output. In other words, as the UOP acts comparably to an electrical outlet, the PS-120 acts comparably to a power strip for portable equipment.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
Extravehicular Activities (EVAs) Preparation: The crew has started preparation for the upcoming iROSA Prep 3A and RPVM Jumper USOS EVAs in March by conducting EVA Tool Gather, EVA M-02 Audit, EVA Joint Airlock Audit of A/L1O0, and EVA Tether Inspection. Today’s EVA Tool Gather provided the crew the opportunity to initially gather and store some of the tools required to perform the activities associated with these EVAs; future gathers will add more tools to this store of equipment. The crew also sorted through Crew Transfer Bags (CTBs) in the EVA M-02 Audit and EVA Joint Airlock Audit A/L1O0 to identify their contents for future use. Unfortunately, the EVA Tether Inspection was deferred based on time constraints. Prior to each series of EVAs, all Tethers planned for use during the series are inspected for structural integrity.
Eye Exams: The crew continued routine Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) eye exams today. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEM Remote Manipulator System (RMS) Ground Control for J-SSOD-20 Deployment
Payload Rack Officer (PRO) Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Activation Commanding
PRO Basic EXPRESS Rack 11B Activation and Deactivation Commanding
Mobile Transporter (MT) Pre-Translation Checkout and Translation
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) Stow

