02-09-2011February 09, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 02/09/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Before sleeptime, Dmitri will inspect the filters again, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.] After configuring the Lab video camcorder for live monitoring of her activities on the Node-1 side of CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), CDR Kelly accessed the MDCA (Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus) and made necessary hardware replacements to enable resumption of science operations.      [Scott set up the MDCA CIA (Chamber Insert Assembly) on the MWA (Maintenance Work Area) surface and replaced the needles and fiber arm inside the CIA.  The latter was then re-installed in the combustion chamber.  Afterwards, the MDCA front-end cap and lower/upper doors were closed.  CIR/MDCA can now resume science operations.  The replacements were necessary because the MDCA fiber arm was dirty from combustion by-products, and both needles needed to be replaced for successful fuel deployment from them.]  During Scott’s CIR activities, FE-5 Nespoli replaced a window in the CIR combustion chamber and inspected the removed window and the CIR LLL-UV (Low Light Level Ultraviolet) imaging package lens for reporting to the ground. FE-1 Kaleri had another 3 hrs 35 min for loading trash and excessed equipment on Progress M-07M/39P, due to be undocked on 2/20. Afterwards, Alex Kaleri performed periodic service of the RS (Russian Segment) radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), reading the recorded radiation traces of 8 Bubble dosimeters, then initializing & re-deploying the detectors and verifying proper function of the setup with the LULIN-5 electronics box.      [The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls], FE-5 Nespoli initiated another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.      [This was the 17th session with the replaced GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 7 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop (due to a software glitch, the software needs to be opened, closed, and then reopened in order to ensure good communication between GC/DMS and SSC-12).  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.] FE-2 Skripochka & FE-5 Kondratyev spent several hours gathering tools & equipment for their next spacewalk, Orlan EVA-28, on 2/16, staging it in the DC1 airlock, then conducted a teleconference with ground specialists to discuss details.       [Tasks for EVA-28, to be conducted by Oleg & Dmitri, consist of removal of two Komplast panels (#2, #10) from the FGB, installation of the new RK-21-8 SVCh-Radiometriya experiment system on the URM-D portable multipurpose workstation on Plane II of the SM RO (Work Compartment) 2 (large diameter), removal of the Ferrozond foot restraint from its location on the SM RO 2, and assembly & connection of the Molniya-GAMMA equipment on the URM-D on Plane IV of the SM RO 2, and launching the Radioskaf-V nanosatellite delivered on Progress 41P.  A jettison items is the Ferrozond foot restraint; the protective cover of Molniya-GAMMA and 2 Molniya-GAMMA MLI (multi-layered insulation) blankets will be brought back inside.] At ~9:30am EST, Scott Kelly & Paolo Nespoli conducted a teleconference with ground specialists to discuss their upcoming tasks of routing and installing coax cabling for the SGANT (Space to Ground Antenna). Later, FE-5 performed the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling in Node-3 using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose, followed by the periodic changeout of the TOCA WWB  (Waste Water Bag).      [After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.] With the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) pointed towards the PFA (Portable Fan Assembly) and later PFF locations in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Nespoli performed the periodic inspection & vacuum-cleaning of the screens of the ECLSS CDA (Environment Control & Life Support System / Cabin Depress Assembly) and PPRVs (Positive Pressure Relief Valves) on the feedthrough plate in the COL port cone area.     [Afterwards, the vacuum cleaner was deinstalled again and removed.] Alex used the standard ECOSFERA equipment, set up on 1/31, to inspect and evaluate the samples collected earlier for the MedOps SZM-MO-21 microbial experiment in Media 2 Petri dishes for cultivation.      [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger and power supply unit, provides samples to help determine microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.] Sasha also undertook another session with the MedOps protocol MO-5, “Cardiovascular Evaluation during Graded Exercises” on the VELO cycle ergometer, a standard Russian fitness test, assisted by Skripochka as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).      [The 50-min assessment, supported by ground specialist tagup via VHF and telemetry monitoring from RGS (Russian Ground Site, 12:44pm EST) uses the Gamma-1 ECG (electrocardiograph) equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels.  For the graded exercise, the subject works the pedals after a prescribed program at load settings of 125, 150, and 175 watts for three minutes each.  Data output involves a kinetocardiogram, rheoplethysmogram, rheoencephalogram and a temporal pulsogram.] FE-6 Coleman restowed the LCM (Liquid Conductivity Meter) which she used yesterday during her extensive task to measure the conductivity of the AR OGS (Atmosphere Revitalization / Oxygen Generation System) recirculation loop for its subsequent correlation to pH value. Cady & Paolo then reviewed the long list of STS-133/ULF5 cargo transfers, followed (~11:30am) by a teleconference with ground specialists to discuss details of the unloading and transfers.      [As currently planned, STS-133/Discovery will dock on 2/26, delivering the fully loaded PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module, formerly MPLM Leonardo).] Coleman supported the BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) payload in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) by conducting the periodic camera/flash setup status check without SSC (Station Support Computer) on the running BCAT-5 with Sample 9.    [The checkup includes image transfer, camera battery and camera/flash position.  It is scheduled every other day when possible, starting at INIT + 1 day during automated photography.] Later, FE-6 worked in the US Airlock on EMUs (Extravehicular Mobility Units) #3009 & #3011, performing the periodic loop scrub, i.e., setting them up with their SCUs (Service & Cooling Umbilicals) and initiating the standard one-hour scrubbing process on the spacesuits’ and Airlock’s cooling water loops, filtering ionic and particulate matter (via a 3-micron filter), then reconfiguring the cooling loops and starting the ~2hr biocide (iodination) filtering.       [The activity met the periodic maintenance requirements of EMUs 3009 and 3011; no checkout steps were required.  Loop scrubbing, incl. iodination of the LCVGs (Liquid Cooling & Ventilation Garments) for biocidal maintenance, is done to eliminate any biomass and particulate matter that may have accumulated in the loops.] With the LTA (Lower Torso Assembly) restraints installed, the suits were then bundled for stowage. Cady also performed extended maintenance on the EHS CSA-CP (Environmental Health System / Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units, changing out the battery in all units (prime & backup) and then zero-calibrating them (to re-establish the “zero value” measurement point).      [This activity was deferred yesterday from her timeline.] Paolo conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks). Scott performed a CubeLab Module data collection session and transferred files of collected data to laptop for downlink.  Cady closed the protective shutters of the Lab, JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) & Node-3 Cupola windows to protect them from reboost thruster effluents while prepositioned Russian command files will initiate the reboost at ~4:37pm with Progress 39P DPO (Approach & Attitude Control) thrusters. The CDR filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).      [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.] FE-5 Nespoli updated the JSL (Joint Station LAN) Interface Panel Port Maps in the US Lab (D1) and Node-2 (O4).      [The port maps identify the various comm ports (OpsLAN, OCA, ISS/Shuttle, CrewLAN, Russian C&C) with specific color codes.] Later, Nespoli went on a search for 6 MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) InSPACE tapes (DIMSG296M, DIMSG298M, DIMSG302M, DIMSG307M, HIMSG115M, HIMSG117M), originally manifested for return on 17A and 2J/A but apparently still on orbit.     [InSPACE was an experiment that obtained basic data on magnetorheological fluids, i.e., a new class of "smart materials" that can be used to improve or develop new brake systems, seat suspensions robotics, clutches, airplane landing gear, and vibration damper systems.  The dispersed particles were contained in CAs (Coil Assemblies) in the MSG that subjected them to electric fields of certain strength and frequencies.] Paolo also performed routine service on the WRS by transferring a CWC-I (Contingency Water Containers-Iodine) bag (#2003) with water to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) storage tank and offloading it.  The PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) could not be used during the offloading.    [Estimated offload time: 40 min.] Sasha conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Working from the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, FE-1 also handled the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Later in the day, Cady Coleman prepared the equipment for her next HRF (Human Research Facility) generic 24-hr urine collections, starting tomorrow. At ~10:10am, Cady, Scot & Paolo conducted a PAO TV downlink, responding to two interview requests, one from National Public Radio’s “All Things Considered”, the other from station KHOU-TV, Houston, TX. The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-2).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.] Reboost:   A one-burn reboost of ISS will be performed this evening at 4:37pm EST using the Progress 39P DPO rendezvous & docking thrusters.  Burn duration will be 4 min 12 sec; delta-V: 0.5 m/s (3.0 ft/s); expected mean altitude increase: 0.9 km (0.5 nmi).  The purpose of the reboost is to set up orbit phasing for STS-133/ULF5 and Soyuz 26S.  .     [Attitude control authority will be handed over top US Momentum Management on 2:55pm and will return to RS MCS (Motion Control System) at ~5:40pm.] CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded today were Chiloe Island, southern Chile (HMS Beagle Site:  Darwin first arrived at Chiloe Island on June 12, 1834 and visited several places there.  It is 190 km in length, the largest of its group of coastal islands, and one of the wettest places South America.  ISS had a mid-day pass with rare, clear weather expected.  Its approach was from the NW.  Looking nadir for this rugged, forested island and trying for context views of the island as a whole), Woollya Cove, Chile (HMS Beagle site:  A break in the weather should have permitted views of this off-track target area as ISS approached from the W in early afternoon light.  At this time the crew was to begin to look well right of track on the far side of Tierra del Fuego. Visual cues are first the wide spit of land of Tierra del Fuego itself, then the narrow strip of water known as the Beagle Channel which divides Argentina [Tierra del Fuego] from Chile [islands south of the channel].  The target was the waterway between major islands on the south side of the channel.  Darwin and Captain Fitzroy of HMS Beagle upon arriving on March 5, 1834, were disappointed to find that the mission station set up here some years earlier had been abandoned.  The crew was asked to attempt an oblique mapping strip to acquire this challenging target), and Tarawa Atoll, Kiribati (ISS had a late-morning pass over the Gilbert Islands archipelago of extensive, Equatorial Pacific island nation of Kiribati.  The pass approached from the NW with fair weather expected.  The Tarawa Atoll is the location of capital city of the Republic of Kiribati, Bairiki.  Looking just left of track for this target).  