
AstroPi Video for Columbus: To celebrate the 10th anniversary of the launch of the Columbus module to the International Space Station (ISS), today the crew recorded a short video of themselves using AstroPi to wish Columbus a happy birthday. Columbus was launched aboard the Space Shuttle Atlantis and is a science laboratory that can accommodate ten active International Standard Payload Racks for science payloads. AstroPis are two augmented Raspberry Pi computers equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measure the environment inside the space station, detect how the station moves through space, and pick up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different kinds of cameras: one has an infrared camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera. 
Rodent Research 6 (RR-6):  Today the crew performed the second of day of RR-6 operations by conducting fixative swaps and processing a series of blood samples from the rodents and placing the samples in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for containment. The Rodent Research-6 (RR-6) mission uses mice flown aboard the International Space Station (ISS) and maintained on Earth to test drug delivery systems for combatting muscular breakdown in space or during disuse conditions. RR-6 includes several groups of mice selectively treated with a placebo or implanted with a nanochannel drug delivery chip that administers compounds meant to maintain muscle in low gravity/disuse conditions.
NanoRacks DreamUp Xtronaut Crystal Growth (Dream XCG): To track the progression of the Dream XCG formation that was initiated last week, the crew took photo and video images of each pouch to show any visible sugar crystal growth. This investigation teaches students about the effects of microgravity on crystal formations using near-identical flight kits flown and operated aboard the ISS.  With access to crew member videos and data on the same experiment, students are able compare crystal formations in space to those in their classrooms. The investigation aims to promote science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields to the next generation of students.
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS): Using the Nikon camera, the crew captured images of the Nile Delta at night. EIISS is used to support creation of a series of videos showcasing Earth views taken from space. The videos are taken with cameras on the ISS in 6K hi-resolution and are integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement. 
Education Payloads Operations (EPO) – A View on Earth: To show children the Cupola on the ISS and the view of Earth from its windows, today the crew recorded a video to capture the images of Earth and the types of things you can see from the ISS. The video also featured the European Space Agency’s mascot for young kids.
On Board Training (OBT), Emergency Simulation:  Today the entire crew participated in an emergency situation simulation OBT, in which they rehearsed their responses to onboard emergencies.  After the OBT, the crew discussed the simulation and responses with ground training crews. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


ISS CREW/SSIPC CONFERENCE
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Setup
825М3 unit 3 discharge term, remove unit 3 from discharge
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
KAZBEK fit check (52S)
Rodent Research Refrigerated Centrifuge Setup
Rodent Research Operations 1B
[ЗУ-С] charger de-install – start
de-mate [ЗУ-С] TLM connector.
Rodent Research Operations 2B
HRF1 Drawer Audit
[ЗУ-С] charger tear down.
ALGOMETRIYA. Stress and strain gauging – setup, measurement
Rodent Research MELFI Insert 1
СОЖ maintenance
Rodent Research MELFI Insert
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Exam
Rodent Research Refrigerated Centrifuge Configure
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Stow
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
Rodent Research MELFI Insert 3
Biolab Reference Experiment Container Installation
ИП-1 sensor settings c/o
NanoRacks Rock Candy Imagery
Record of EPO Paxi script
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude Final
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Two-Phase Flow Experiment Equipment Deactivation
Rodent Research 6 Fixative Swap
ISS air repress from DC1 68P [СРПК] section 2 – start
Rodent Research Hind Limb Sample Relocation
ALGOMETRIYA. Stress gauging
Air repress from DC1 68P [СРПК] section 2 – stop
Training for Emergency Response On-board ISS
CWC-I Gather
ПхО SМ and DC1 to initial post EVA
Install and check updated RODF Descent files on Samsung PC Soyuz #734 (52S)
AstroPi PR video for 10th anniversary of Columbus
MELFI 1 Dewar Inventory
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) in Columbus
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Drill Conference
CONTENT. Experiment ops
Pre-69P (Progress #438) docking Ku-Band MPEG-2 TV test
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Earth Imagery from ISS Nikon Target Operations
КСПЭ Camcorder prep and connect in МRМ2 (for video reporting  ОНА antenna beam maneuver in Mpeg2 format) Video and Audio
КСПЭ Camcorder deactivation, ТВС monitoring assets and applications closeout
Crew Discretionary Event
ALGOMETRIYA. Stress and strain gauging Closeout ops
Microbial Tracking-2 Reminder for Saliva Collection

Completed Task List Activities

Microbial Tracking-2 Environmental Sample Collection
VEG-03E Experiment Install

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Standard commanding

