02-05-2010February 05, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 02/05/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sleep shift started, to accommodate last night’s Progress 36P docking and STS-130/20A arrival: Crew sleep cycle shift:  Wake:  7:10pm (last night) – 10:40am (this morning)  Yest kasaniye!    At 11:26pm EST last night, Progress M-04M(36P) docked successfully to the SM (Service Module) aft port under automatic KURS control, followed by a final DPO post-contact thrusting burn, docking probe retraction and hook closure (“sborka”) after motion damp-out while the ISS was in free drift for ~20 min (11:26pm-11:46pm).  At “hooks closed” signal, the SM returned to active attitude control, maneuvering the ISS to LVLH TEA (local vertical/local horizontal Torque Equilibrium Attitude) at 11:46pm.  Control authority returned to US Momentum Management at 12:42am.  Russian thrusters were disable temporarily during clamps install and leak check (1:45am-3:40am).  For the first time, four Russian vehicles are docked at the ISS (two Progress and two Soyuz vehicles).  For monitoring 36P rendezvous & docking, FE-4 Kotov & FE-5 Noguchi activated the FGB-based A31p SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop for the TV conversion to NTSC and Ku-band of the RS (Russian Segment) video signal from the SONY HDV camera via the MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoder from FGB & SM, in order to downlink “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.  After the cargo ship’s successful docking, activities by Maxim Suraev & Oleg Kotov included –  Shutting off the TORU teleoperated rendezvous & docking system, used as manual standby, and reconfiguring the STTS telephone/telegraph subsystem to normal ops [the "Voskhod-M" STTS enables telephone communications between the SM, FGB, DC-1 and USOS, and also with users on the ground over VHF channels selected by an operator at an SM comm panel, via STTS antennas on the SM’s outside.  There are six comm panels in the SM with pushbuttons for accessing any of three audio channels, plus an intercom channel.  Other modes of the STTS include telegraphy (teletype), EVA voice, emergency alarms, Packet/Email, and TORU docking support]; Conducting the standard one-hour leak checking of the docking vestibule and fuel/oxidizer transfer line interface between Progress and SM PrK (Transfer Tunnel); Opening the hatches (~3:00am) and installing the QD (quick disconnect) screw clamps (BZV) of the docking & internal transfer mechanism (SSVP) to rigidize the coupling; Performing the standard air sampling inside Progress with the Russian AK-1M air sampler; Powering down the spacecraft and installing the ventilation/heating air duct; Dismantling the docking mechanism (StM, Stykovochnovo mekhanizma) between the cargo ship and the DC-1 (~4:25am-5:25am)  [the StM is the "classic" probe-and-cone type, consisting of an active docking assembly (ASA) with a probe (SSh), which fits into the cone (SK) on the passive docking assembly (PSA) for initial soft dock and subsequent retraction to hard dock.  The ASA is mounted on the Progress' cargo module (GrO), while the PSA sits on the docking ports of the SM, FGB and DC-1], and   Transferring & inspecting four Russian high priority payloads to the ISS and setting them up in the SM & DC1,- the BTKh-42 Struktura (Structure) with its Luch-2 kit, the TKhN-9 Kristallizator (Crystallizer), FOCUS structural equipment, and BTKh-29/Zhenshen-2/Ginseng-2.]   Jeff & TJ filled out their regular weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  The FE-4 had ~1h for transferring 36P-delivered cargo to the ISS, keeping track of the moves on the IMS (Inventory Management System) databases.  Jeff & Soichi had another cargo handling activity, prepacking equipment for return to Earth on 20S.   The FE-5 installed a data cable between the Lab RWS PCS (Robotic Work Station / Portable Work Station) and the SSC-8 (Station Support Computer 8) for DOUG (Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics), started the application in real-time mode, then tested its ability to receive wireless telemetry by verifying using solar arrays tracking on the display.    [DOUG is a software program on the MSS (Mobile Service System) RWS laptops that provides a graphical birdseye-view image of the external station configuration and the SSRMS arm, showing its real-time location and configuration on a laptop during its operation.]  At wake-up last evening, FE-4 Kotov began his workday with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Preparatory to the Progress docking last night, FE-1 Suraev turned on the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment hardware in the SM to take structural dynamics data during the docking operation.  Afterwards, DAKON was deactivated again and its data downloaded.    [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]  Oleg Kotov worked with FE-5 Noguchi to set up and activate the TV downlink from the 36P and SM over the MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoder via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band in “streaming video” packets.  After the docking, Kotov deactivated the VDS (Video Distribution System) and dismantled the MPEG-2 TV/Ku-band transmission “scheme”, turning the A31p laptop off.    [The setup involves the designated A31p laptop at the Lab RWS for converting analog-to-digital video, the video connection from the SONY HVR-Z1J digital hgh-definition camcorder and the ZVK LIV Experimental Video Complex in the SM over the MPEG-2 encoder.  The KL-211 MPEG-2 Encoder uses the RSS1 A31p laptop (for monitoring the digital video) and a U.S. SSC (Station Support Computer) A31p laptop (for converting analog TV from Russian PAL mode to U.S. NTSC).  The video hardware connection is checked with a network ping test.  The digital video transmission is carried over JSL(Joint Station LAN)/Ethernet plus OCA/Ku-Band to MCC-Houston and from there to Moscow via the ESA Gateway for COL-CC/Oberpfaffenhofen transmission to TsUP-Moscow, plus transfer of the USOS analog video of the RS ISS video downlink via Streambox 2 to NISN (i.e., the Moscow Ostankino communication hub).]  For the recently concluded session of the SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight) experiment, Jeff completed the monthly Actiwatch data download to the HRF PC (Human Research Facility Portable Computer), initialized the devices the Actiwatches, then decabled and stowed the hardware, plus powered down the laptop.  Williams set up the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) with its software and performed BMM (Body Mass Measurement) activities for himself and TJ Creamer, without doing the control/calibration run.  The hardware was then powered off, disassembled and temporarily stowed.    [SLAMMD, performed first on Expedition 12 in December 2005, provides an accurate means of determining the on-orbit mass of humans spanning the range from the 5th percentile Japanese female to the 95th percentile American male.  The procedure, in accordance with Newton’s 2nd Law of Motion, finds the mass by dividing force, generated by two springs inside the SLAMMD drawer, by acceleration measured with a precise optical instrument that detects the position versus time trajectory of the SLAMMD guide arm and a micro controller which collects the raw data and provides the precise timing.  The final computation is done via portable laptop computer with SLAMMD unique software.  To calculate their mass, crewmembers wrap their legs around a leg support assembly, align the stomach against a belly pad and either rest the head or chin on a head rest.  For calibration, an 18-lbs. mass is used at different lengths from the pivot point, to simulate different mass values.  Crew mass range is from 90 to 240 lbs.]  The CDR performed chemical testing on water samples collected from the Russian SVO-SZ outlet. using EHS C-SPE (Environmental Health System / Colorimetric Solid-Phase Extraction) analysis and CWQMK (Colorimetric Water Quality Monitoring Kit).     [Results of an Iodine standard were downloaded, followed by the Silver standard and analysis.]  To protect against structural loads on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) during docking, Williams re-installed the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) lock-down alignment guides on the FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility) in the CIR which he had removed previously to allow PaRIS activation for ground-commanded FCF ops in micro-G.  In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Soichi reconfigured the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) by removing the TCC (Temperature Controller Cylinder) from CBEF 1G IU (Incubator Unit), then wiping a surface of the CBEF IU 1G fan.  Later, Noguchi had ~1hr for installing the 36P-delivered JAXA PCG (Protein Crystal Growth) canister into the PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility), then connecting its cabling.  After temporarily moving the ALTEA (Anomalous Long Term Effects on Astronauts) dosimeter unit out of the way as required to allow access to the Lab P1 Rack with OGS (Oxygen Generator System), Creamer deactivated the WDS (Water Delivery System) on the face of the rack and collected a water sample from the recirculation loop with an adapter.  The latter was then removed, and the WDS and ALTEA were reconfigured.  Jeff performed the regular sensor calibration and check on the CSA-O2 (Compound Specific Analyzer-Oxygen) units #1046 & #1063.  The CDR also created and applied labels to on-orbit CSA-O2s that will note expected O2 levels in cabin air and behind closeouts.  On the WRS UPA (Water Recovery System / Urine Pretreat Assembly), Williams swapped out the expired pre-treated urine transfer hose with a new one.  The CDR performed the periodic (once monthly) reboot of all active US PCS (Portable Computer System) and COL PWS (Columbus Orbital Laboratory Portable Workstation) laptops and recorded the battery state-of-charge for each active PC.  After recording the battery SOC (state of charge) for each active laptop, Williams deactivated the COP PWS2 and the FGB PCS.  Creamer reviewed the APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit-Cambium) reference file prior to the selected science session.  Jeff donned the Glenn treadmill harness with installed transducer instrumentation (6th time for him), then activated the harness for his exercise run on the TVIS treadmill.     [Afterwards, the CDR downloaded the harness data and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).]  The crewmembers worked out with their adjusted physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).  WRM Update:  A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.     [The new card (22-0003J) lists 77 CWCs (1,853.5 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (14 CWCs with 507.0 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 157.3 L in 6 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 215.5 L in 5 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 1 bag with 23.0 L contains Wautersia, 1 bag with 43.6 L requires sample analysis & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (47 CWCs with ~881.1 L),  4. condensate water (1 bag with 28.1L [known leaker], 1 empty CWC, 3 bags with 50.4 L) and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (1 CWC with 20.2 L, 1 empty CWC).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Mauna Loa, HI (Mauna Loa is the largest volcano on Earth in terms of volume and area covered, and one of five volcanoes that form the Island of Hawaii.  It is an active volcano.  Mauna Loa's massive size and elevation [13,677 feet or 4169 m] makes it appear as a broad shield.  The volcano has probably been erupting for at least 700,000 years and it may have emerged above sea level only about 400,000 years ago.  Looking to the right of track), Tropical Cyclone Oli (Tropical Cyclone Oli was predicted to be a Category 3 cyclone at the time of this pass.  Looking to the south, southwest of Tahiti for this storm.  Context views were requested), Yellow River Delta, China (looking to the left of track to view this delta.  Increases in delta size and the shifting position of the river mouth have been documented with handheld imagery over the last two decades.  Shooting nadir images of the coastline), Ganges River Delta (weather was predicted to be clear over the Ganges Delta at the time of this overpass, however there might have been some haze present. Looking under track for the multitude of river channels forming the Mouths of the Ganges.  Vegetation in the delta area includes mangrove forest which tends to appear darker than the upland vegetation.  Overlapping mapping frames of the current channels and shorelines of the delta were requested), and Singapore (Singapore is an island city-state located on the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula.  The population of Singapore is approximately 4.99 million [2008].  Overlapping images of the city were requested).  