02-09-2012February 09, 2012
ISS On-Orbit Status 02/09/12 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. After wakeup this morning (~1:00am EST), FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection. CDR Burbank & FE-5 Kuipers are on Day 6 of Session 1 of the SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) experiment.  Today’s activities involved taking, for the 2nd time, measurements of body mass (BMM) with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device), final urine sampling after the 24-hr collections, and securing their blood samples in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Special diet intake & logging was not required.         [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included), the crewmember is ingesting one of two special diets (low salt & high salt content).  SOLO Diet starts with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are logged daily on sheets stowed in the PCBA Consumable Kit in the MELFI along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) on Days 4 & 6.  Blood samples are taken on Day 5, centrifuged & inserted in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) and also measured with the PCBA.  24-hr urine collections are performed on Day 5, with sample insertion in MELFI.    Background:   SOLO, a NASA/ESA-German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 & MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.] FE-2 Ivanishin terminated his 4th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  Before sleeptime, Anton Shkaplerov will prepare the Russian MBI-12 payload and start his 5th Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth. In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Dan Burbank serviced the running BCAT-6 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-6) by replacing the BCAT-6 battery early in the morning with a fresh one and, with  & Don Pettit, repeating the replacement about 8 hrs later.       [The NIKON D2Xs with EarthKAM software running on an SSC laptop takes automated flash photography controlled by the software, photographing Sample 4 once every two hours for seven days.  Crew performs three camera battery changes and a camera check each day. The camera battery changes are scheduled to be performed approximately every 8 hours per Mike Fossum’s recommendation during past BCAT-6 activities.] Also in the JAXA JPM, the CDR worked on the ICS (Inter-Satellite Communication System) Rack, removing the MUX (Data Multiplexer) and packing it carefully for return on the SpaceX “Dragon” capsule. Continuing their paced preparations for the Orlan EVA-30 spacewalk next week (2/16) and the suited dry-run on Tuesday (2/14), FE-4 Kononenko & FE-1 Shkaplerov worked on their Orlan-MK space suits, today –Setting up, running voice checks and testing space suit telemetry and biomedical parameter acquisition of the BETA-08 PKO biomed harness’ USI data output device, using the “Gamma-1M” med complex from the PKO med exam panel, and Installing, with assist from Dan Burbank, US ERCAs (EVA Radio Frequency Camera Assemblies) and EHIP (EVA Helmet Interchangeable Portable) lights on the Orlans.   [Checkout of the WVS (Wireless Video System) was nominal.] Joined by Don Pettit, Anton & Oleg also reviewed the EVA-30 airlock depress/repress timeline.      [Entry into the DC1 Docking Compartment for donning the Orlan suits and sealing the backpacks will be at ~7:20am-7:40am EST.  After the SM/PkhO and PkhO/SU(DC1) hatches are closed, CDR Burbank and FE-2 Ivanishin will be in the MRM2 Poisk module and FE-5 Kuipers & FE-6 Pettit in the FGB.  After leak checks, Orlan prebreathe will start at ~8:25am, and Pettit will close the PGO/SU(SM) hatch from the FGB.  DC1 EV1 hatch opening is expected at ~9:23am.  During the 6h 3m spacewalk Kononenko (EV1) & Shkaplerov (EV2) are scheduled to relocate the Strela-1 “crane” from DC1 to MRM2, install SMDPs (SM Debris Panels) on the SM (RO1 segment), and, if time permits, support the experiment “Test” on the SM RO1, install support struts on the DC1 EVA ladder, and install sample exposure panels of the space experiment “Vinoslivost” on MRM2.  After ingress at ~3:25pm, DC1 will be repressed, and exit from the Orlans follows at ~3:50pm.]  Also for the EVA from the DC1 airlock, Shkaplerov & Ivanishin prepared the Progress M-14M/46P cargo ship, docked at DC1, for unscheduled (contingency) undocking by ground commanding if required, by removing the two handles (ruchek) from the Progress hatch door and installing the StM docking mechanism in the port.  Oleg updated four RODF (Russian Operations Data File) copies relating to Orlan-MK operations from the DC1 airlock. In Node-3, André Kuipers worked on the WRS (Water Recovery System), completing several UPA/RFTA (Urine Processor Assembly/Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) activities, viz. –Topping off the old-style RFTA that Burbank installed on 2/6 by pumping in urine from EDV containers #980 & #974 if necessary (requiring several fill cycles, each one not exceeding 70% so that the UPA software correctly tracks input quantity),Hooking up the RFTA in the WRS rack for the periodic tank backfill with a QD (Quick Disconnect) hose for processing, andDraining brine from the new-style ARFTA (Advanced RFTA) which the CDR removed on 2/6, into EDV #980.  Kuipers also started the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) to downlink playback video from the recent LEGO Windmill and his subsequent NanoRack activities.  POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center) routed the on-board HRDL system. Afterwards, with the video camcorder set up in the Lab for documentary coverage, André worked another NanoRacks, Module 17, activity, performing Sensor Calibration on the previously used (and failed) Smartphone.     [The NanoRacks Smartphone-1 malfunction encountered earlier by André was due to a damaged voltage regulator in the iPhone battery pack, under-powering the device.  Additional data collection was necessary from the Sensor Calibration subexperiment.  For this, André required a set of fresh AAA batteries which were delivered on Progress 46P and made available to the NanoRacks operation on short notice by Russian consent.] FE-5 also conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.       [The current card (29-0008I) lists 39 CWCs (498.2 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (3 CWCs with 88.4 L, for Elektron electrolysis, all containing Wautersia bacteria, plus 1 empty bag;  2. Condensate water (2 CWCs with 9.8 L, 9 empty bags);  3. Iodinated water (14 CWCs with 232.9 L; also 8 expired bags with 140.5 L);  4. Waste water (1 bag with 6.4 L EMU waste water); and  5. Special fluid (1 CWC with 20.2 L, hose/pump flush).  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] After activating the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) and setting up the G1 camcorder in the Lab for real-time monitoring by the PI (Principal Investigator).  Don Pettit configured the SLICE (Structure & Liftoff In Combustion Experiment) hardware and performed the first test operations.  Later, FE-6 conducted preparations and test execution a second time.  MSG was then put on standby and its laptop powered off.      [Don installed a burner tube in the SPICE Experiment Assembly, removed the old flash card from the still camera, copied its hi-res images to an OpsLAN laptop and installed a new card for the experiment.  The subsequent flame tests were with 100% methane, which is the primary component of natural gas, the simplest hydrocarbon fuel and also has well-understood chemical kinetics - making these flames both appropriate and amenable for detailed numerical modeling.  The research goal is to gain unique data to extend scientists’ predictive capability.  Earth application: Increased efficiency and reduced pollutant emission for practical combustion devices, improved numerical modeling, hence improved design tools, hence improved practical combustion on Earth (currently, the good modeling-experiment agreement breaks down when flames are lean or heavily sooting).  Measurements: still images (with camera that was blackbody calibrated for pyrometry), video & radiometer.  Hardware:  SLICE is conducted in the MSG using the SPICE hardware.] Activities completed by FE-2 Anatoly Ivanishin included –The periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways;    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1],The regular (weekly) inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness),His 4th session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop;    [Shkaplerov stood by to assist Anatoly in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes and applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain],His 7th data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file;    [the software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities],The periodic refresh of the ISS cabin atmosphere with another O2 repress from Progress M-14/46P SRPK tankage (with the Elektron oxygen generator currently inactive),The routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM;   [regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator], andThe daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). In the Lab, Dan Burbank temporarily installed a spare (the Protoflight Unit 2) of the EHS TOCA (Environmental Health System / Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) with its N2 (nitrogen), H2O (water) and power connections, then activated the Gas Mass Flow Controller and cycled its valve for the spare TOCA, in order to mitigate stiction and potential failure of the spare unit. At ~2:55pm, the six crewmembers are scheduled for their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office/CB (Peggy Whitson), via S-band S/G-2 audio & phone patch. The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2). Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko & Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, andMore preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb). RS Propellant Transfer:     TsUP-Moscow finishes up today pumping propellants from the Progress 46P cargo ship’s SD tankage, pumping oxidizer (N2O4 or NTO, nitrogen tetroxide) to SM tank BO2 with compressor K2 (7:31am-4:54pm EST), with BITS2-12 onboard real time telemetry system and VD-SU mode off.  This concludes prop transfer operations, during which a total of 540 kg propellants were transferred to the ISS.    [When VD-SU mode is deactivated and BITS is powered down, affected equipment must be turned off to avoid operation in the absence of real-time telemetry. The most notable impacts are: Elektron oxygen generation system (shutdown by crew or ground),SKV air conditioning system (shutdown by crew or ground).Vozdukh carbon dioxide removal unit (no telemetry if in automatic mode, no impact if in manual mode).BMP micropurification unit (automatically shutdown).SRV-K condensate water processor (can be shut down by crew or ground, usually not required).BRI data conversion unit (smart router) is power cycled when VD-SU mode is cycled. After VD-SU activation, the crew may execute a test to assess the impact of VD-SU mode cycling on the BRI,No dP/dt (pressure change) detection in RS due to the lack of telemetry, Fire & smoke alarms (audio only) will annunciate onboard in the SM through the C&W panel (PSS) speaker,Total pressure alarms (audio only) will annunciate onboard in the SM through the C&W panel (PSS) speaker.]CEO (Crew Earth Observation) target uplinked for today was Tropical Cyclone Jasmine, Vanuatu, western Pacific Ocean (DYNAMIC EVENT.  Jasmine is presently a major Category 4 storm.  By the time of this pass it had declined slightly to a Category 3.  Looking right for ~5 mins.  Low dawn sun angles should have revealed cloud surface morphology).  