
Multi-Omics Collections: This morning the crew performed sampling in support of the JAXA Multi-Omics experiment. Various samples are collected and stowed in MELFI four times throughout the crew’s on-orbit duration in addition to a questionnaire and ingestion of fructooligosaccharide (FOS). The objective of Multi-Omics is to understand the gut ecosystem of astronauts in the space environment, especially focusing on the immune dysfunction, and to evaluate the impact of FOS. 
Robonaut Compact Peripheral Component Interconnect (CPCI) Inspection: The crew performed troubleshooting on the Robonaut chassis.  Previous troubleshooting suggested an issue with two card that were returned and tested on the ground. The cards brought down were exonerated and during today’s activities teams received a good response from the Robonaut during first power up. Indicator lights were as expected for a working Robonaut.  Various power cycles were performed while trying to narrow down intermittent fault statuses.  Eventually the team exonerated several of the cables.  The cards were not removed from the CPCI chassis and remain installed and all cables were left connected.  Teams plan to analyze results to develop any forward actions. Robonaut is a humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, work in high risk environments, and respond safely to unexpected obstacles. Robonaut is comprised of a torso with two arms and a head, and two legs with end effectors that enable the robot to translate inside the ISS by interfacing with handrails and seat track. Robonaut is currently operated inside the International Space Station (ISS); in the future, it will perform tasks both inside and outside the ISS. The Robonaut Teleoperations System enables Robonaut to mimic the motions of a crewmember wearing specialized gloves, a vest and a visor providing a three-dimensional view through Robonaut’s eyes. 
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Window Replace: The crew removed the MSG Front window and replace it with a removable window assembly.  The new window will allow for easier access to the MSG through the front, rather than smaller access ports on the side of the MSG. 
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PBRE) Module Exchange: The crew successfully exchanged the removed the Test Module in the PBRE located in the MSG. The crew removed most of the hardware configured in the MSG, then re-installed and reconnected the cables and hoses. The PBRE investigation studies the behavior of gases and liquids when they flow simultaneously through a column filled with fixed porous media. The porous media or “packing” can be made of different shapes and materials and are used widely in chemical engineering as a means to enhance the contact between two immiscible fluid phases (e.g., liquid-gas, water-oil, etc.). Packed columns can serve as reactors, scrubbers, strippers, etc. in systems where efficient interphase contact is desired, both on Earth and in space. 
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites Tether (SPHERES Tether): The crew conducted a conference with the ground team then setup and checkout the SPHERES, the work area in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM), and the EXpedite PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Laptop Computer (ELC) prior to testing. The crew will load the test specific software to the satellites and execute the first of two test sessions with ground support teams. The goal of the SPHERES Tether Demo is to study the dynamics of a tethered capture object and a “space tug” chase vehicle, improving computer programs and modeling needed for removing space debris as well as capturing scientific samples from other planets.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  Robotics Ground Controllers are configuring for the SpX-10 mission by translating the Mobile Transporter (MT) to Worksite 4, stowing the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on Mobile Base System (MBS)2, and maneuvering the SSRMS to the Offset Grapple Start position.
Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Operations:  Overnight Robotic Ground Controllers in JAXA Space Station Integration and Promotion Center (SSIPC) will be maneuvering JEMRMS and Small Fine Arm (SFA) in preparation for Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) Adapter transfer operations.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry – Subject
EKON-M. Observations and photography
KORREKTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
ISS HAM Radio and Video Power Up
JEF HDTV Software Update Setup
SPHERES Battery Swap
Robonaut Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Robonaut Lab Camcorder Video Setup
Robonaut Troubleshooting
Acoustic Dosimeter Setup Day 3
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
Multi Omics Fecal Sample Operations
Study of cardiovascular system under graded physical CYCLE load.
Multi Omics Fecal Sample MELFI Insertion
Multi Omics Fecal Stow
ESA ACTIVE DOSIMETER MOBILE UNIT SWAP
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Rad Detector Rotate
SPHERES Battery Swap
Robonaut Troubleshooting
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Recharging Soyuz 732 Samsung PC Battery (if charge level is below 80%)
Study of cardiovascular system under graded physical CYCLE load.
СОЖ maintenance
Verify connections per diagram in Figure 1 of referenced procedure
Microgravity Science Glovebox Front Window Exchange
SPHERES Battery Swap
KORREKTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
Terminate Soyuz 732 Samsung PC Battery Recharge (as necessary)
Greetings Video Footage
SPHERES Crew Conference
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
PAO Preparation
SPHERES Test Session Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
PILOT-T. Preparation for the experiment.
KORREKTSIYA. Experiment setup
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment Test Module Exchange
SPHERES Battery Swap
Deploy AC Inverter to NOD3 UOP3-J3, PS-120 Junction Box J4 power port.
Life On The Station Photo and Video
SPHERES Tether Demo Test Run
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops.
PILOT-T. Closeout Ops
RELAKSATSIYA. Charging battery for Relaksatstiya experiment (initiate)
SPHERES Test Session Shutdown
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
JEF HDTV RS232C-USB Cable Switch
KORREKTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake

Completed Task List Items

WHC KTO Replace
New Food Evaluation

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

MT Translate
SPDM Stow 

