02-06-2011February 06, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 02/06/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Sunday – Crew rest day.   Ahead:  Week 12 of Increment 26.    FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Before sleeptime, Dmitri will inspect the filters again, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.] CDR Kelly performed the periodic (monthly) battery check and reboot of all active US PCS (Portable Computer System) laptops in Lab, A/L (Airlock), CUP (Node-3 Cupola), SM (Service Module) and of the COL PWS (Columbus Orbital Laboratory Portable Workstation) laptops, recording the battery SOC (state of charge) of each of them. FE-1 Kaleri completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers]. Kaleri also performed the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s & FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP. Before sleep time, Alex Kaleri initiates overnight (10-hr) charging of the Kelvin-Video battery for the Russian KPT-2 payload with its BAR science instruments suite (other BAR components being the ТТМ-2 Anemometer-Thermometer, the Piren-B instrument, the charger cable, and the video display unit).      [Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Besides the new Piren-B video-endoscope with pyrosensor, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.] At ~2:40pm EST, Scott was scheduled for a PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop). The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1). No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded for today. 