
Rodent Research 6 (RR-6):  Today the crew performed the fourth day of RR-6 operations where they conducted fixative swaps and processed a series of blood samples from the rodents. The samples from today’s activities were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for containment. The Rodent Research-6 (RR-6) mission uses mice flown aboard the International Space Station (ISS) and maintained on Earth to test drug delivery systems for combatting muscular breakdown in space or during disuse conditions. RR-6 includes several groups of mice selectively treated with a placebo or implanted with a nanochannel drug delivery chip that administers compounds meant to maintain muscle in low gravity/disuse conditions. 
NanoRacks Vuze (One Strange Rock) Camera Mounted Operations: The crew setup the NanoRack Vuze camera and recorded 3-Dementional 360 degree videos of the Cupola inside of the ISS. The mounted camera captured a “day in a life” style footage as the crew went about their nominal tasks throughout the ISS. National Geographic Channel–Virtual Reality Educational Video for Television Series–“One Strange Rock” (One Strange Rock Virtual Reality) is a 10-part series that transports a virtual reality camera to the ISS for recording of a National Geographic special on the Earth as a natural life-support system. Crew aboard the ISS record a series of virtual reality pieces for incorporation into a larger documentary about natural history and the solar system. Each episode features a different crew member and addresses different topics using next generation virtual reality technology to raise awareness about the Earth system and the space program.
Veg-03 Initiation: Following the initiation of the 5th Veg-03 experiment run earlier this week, today the crew opened the wicks of each Veg-03 plant pillow, and initiated the 6th experiment run to ultimately conduct two Veg-03 grow outs at the same time. The overall goal of Veg-03 is to further demonstrate proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long-duration missions into the solar system, finally culminating on Mars, will require a fresh food supply to supplement crew diets, which means growing crops in space. Previous investigations focused on improving productivity in controlled environments, but the limited quarters of the space shuttle and International Space Station made it difficult to conduct large-scale crop production tests. Veg-03 expands on previous validation tests of the new Veggie hardware, which crew members will soon use to grow cabbage, lettuce and other fresh vegetables in space. 
Lighting Effects Visual Performance Test at a General Luminaire Assembly (GLA) Setting: A 52S and 53S subject conducted a Visual Performance Test by turning all non-GLA light sources off and performing a Numerical Verification Test and a Color Discrimination Test. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. 
NanoRacks DreamUp Xtronaut Crystal Growth (DreamXCG): To track the progression of the DreamXCG formation that was initiated last week, the crew took photo and video images of each pouch to show any visible sugar crystal growth. This investigation teaches students about the effects of microgravity on crystal formations using near-identical flight kits flown and operated aboard the International Space Station (ISS). With access to crew member videos and data on the same experiment, students are able compare crystal formations in space to those in their classrooms. The investigation aims to promote science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields to the next generation of students.
Robonaut: The crew prepared and stowed Robonaut in preparation for return on SpaceX-14. Robonaut is a humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, work in high risk environments, and respond safely to unexpected obstacles. It is comprised of a torso with two arms and a head, and two legs with end effectors that enable the robot to translate inside the ISS by interfacing with handrails and seat tracks.
Space Automated Bio-product Lab (SABL) CO2 Sensor Calibration: Today the crew setup the CO2 Meter in the SABL for a CO2 sensor calibration. SABL supports a wide variety of experiments in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has a temperature controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and experiments. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 for cell cultures.
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS): Using the RED camera, the crew captured images from Ireland to Moscow in the daytime. EIISS is used to support creation of a series of videos showcasing Earth views taken from space. The videos are taken with cameras on the ISS in 6K hi-resolution and are integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement. 
Space Headaches:  The crew completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities completed unless otherwise noted.


Photo TV Battery Charge Initiation
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluation
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Rodent Research Dissection 1B
Rodent Research Refrigerated Centrifuge Setup
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Rodent Research Dissection 2B
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment Setup.
Rodent Research MELFI Insert
VEG-03E Wick Open
European Modular Cultivation System Gas Valve Close
VEG-03F MWA Preparation
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
VEG-03F Experiment Install
Rodent Research Refrigerated Centrifuge Configure
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment Session on BD-2
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Closeout Operations
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
NanoRacks Vuze Setup
Photo TV Battery Charge Swap
NanoRacks Vuze Operations
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude Final
СОЖ Maintenance
Rodent Research 6 Fixative Swap
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab, CO2 Meter Setup
NanoRacks Vuze Teardown
Robonaut Hardware Pack
HRF Hardware Relocate
RED Camera Setup.
Lighting Effects Visual Performance Tests GLA Setting 
Rodent Research Hind Limb Sample Relocation
Earth Imagery from ISS RED Target Operations
Robonaut Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Robonaut Lab Camcorder Video Setup
RED Camera Deactivation.
NanoRacks Rock Candy Imagery
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops.
MOTOCARD. Assistance during the Experiment
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
NanoRacks Vuze SD Card Removal from SSC
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Photo TV Battery Charge Deactivation
ISS HAM Radio Power Down in Columbus
ISS HAM Radio Power Down in Service Module
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab, CO2 Meter Teardown and Stow

Completed Task List Activities

JAXA Report Part 2
EVA Tool Config

Ground Activities
All activities completed unless otherwise noted.


Rodent Research Support
Robonaut Packing Support
Standard Commanding

