02-02-2010February 02, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 02/02/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  At wake-up, FE-4 Kotov began his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  As part of the crew’s regular morning inspection tour, Kotov conducted the routine checkup of circuit breakers & fuses both in the DC1 (Docking Compartment) and in the MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2).    [The monthly checkup in the “Pirs” and “Poisk” modules looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 & BPP-36.]  Early in the day, the Russian Elektron O2 generator was reactivated, with FE-1 Suraev monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.    [The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup. Elektron had to be turned off while BITS & VD-SU were off for onboard maintenance work.]  Right after Postsleep, CDR Williams, FE-5 Noguchi & FE-6 Creamer completed another Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  A total of 121 RST runs are assigned to Jeff for the duration of his orbital stay.]  Maxim Suraev completed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System by starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #1 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated tonight at ~4:15pm EST before the docking, followed tomorrow by Bed #2 regeneration.  (Last time done: 1/11-1/12).     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods.  The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days.]  In preparation for Progress M-04M/36P docking on Thursday (2/4, ~11:26pm EST), Suraev & Kotov worked through the standard three-hour training course with the TORU teleoperator system, which provides a manual backup mode to the Progress’ KURS automated rendezvous radio system.  Afterwards, Maxim & Oleg tagged up with a TORU instructor at TsUP/Moscow via S-band audio to report on results.     [The drill included procedure review, rendezvous, docking data and rendezvous math modeling data review, fly-around, final approach, docking and off-nominal situations (e.g., video or comm loss).  Three modes were simulated on the RSK1 laptop with varying range and sunlight conditions.  The TORU teleoperator control system lets a SM (Service Module)-based crewmember perform the approach and docking of automated Progress vehicles in case of KURS failure.  Receiving a video image of the approaching ISS, as seen from a Progress-mounted docking television camera (“Klest”), on a color monitor (“Simvol-Ts”, i.e. “symbol center”) which also displays an overlay of rendezvous data from the onboard digital computer, the crewmember would steer the Progress to mechanical contact by means of two hand controllers, one for rotation (RUO), the other for translation (RUD), on adjustable armrests.  The controller-generated commands are transmitted from the SM's TORU control panel to the Progress via VHF radio.  In addition to the Simvol-Ts color monitor, range, range rate (approach velocity) and relative angular position data are displayed on the “Klest-M” video monitor (VKU) which starts picking up signals from Progress when it is still approximately 8 km away.  TORU is monitored in real time from TsUP over Russian ground sites (RGS) and via Ku-band from Houston, but its control cannot be taken over from the ground.  On 2/4, Progress KURS will be activated at 9:50:30pm EST on Daily Orbit 1 (DO1), SM KURS two minutes later.  Progress floodlight will be switched on at a range of ~8 km.  Flyaround to the SM aft port (~400 m range, in sunlight) starts at 11:01:27pm, followed by station keeping at 170m at ~11:11:15pm.  Start of final approach: ~11:15pm (DO2) in sunlight, contact, after sunset: ~11:26pm.]  Oleg Kotov had 2h50m for undertaking his 2nd onboard session with the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment after setting up the workplace and equipment, with Suraev acting as Operator and taking photographs.  Later, the Pilot-M & Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled & stowed away, and Oleg reported to TsUP on his run.    [MBI-15 requires the Multipurpose Hardware Bench as a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO & RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) with software (v. 2.0) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.]  The FE-1 completed the periodic update of the AntiVirus program in four Russian VKS auxiliary laptops (RSS2, RSK1, RSK2, RSE1), which are not loaded from the ground, from a new uplinked program copy of Norton AV on the FS (File Server) laptop, first scanning the latter, then transferring the database by flash drive to the other computers and scanning them one by one.  In the US A/L (Airlock), Williams, Creamer & Noguchi had ~2 hrs for resizing the two prime EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) spacesuits, #3018 & #3010, in preparation for the 20A spacewalks.  The crew also pre-gathered EVA support items for 20A.  The activities were videoed and downlinked.    [#3018 was configured to be ready as a backup.]  Afterwards, Jeff & TJ transferred unused items from the A/L to clear the “Quest” module for the 20A spacewalks, installed LTA (Lower Torso Assembly) restraint bags on the EMUs and configured the SCU (Service & Cooling Umbilical) pouch restraints.  Jeff also changed out the O-rings on METOX (Metal Oxide) canister #0013, which have reached their lifetime limit.  In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), CDR Williams completed Day 2 of his 4th (of 5) ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session.  Upon reaching the midpoint, Jeff ended the Cardiopres/BP (blood pressure) data collection, changed out the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi CF Card and AA Battery, and began the next 24-hour data collection, using the CEVIS cycle ergometer in a short-duration run at high & low speeds to meet the ICV heart rate requirement.       [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices were worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres was doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]  TJ Creamer meanwhile reviewed the ICV reference material for his role as CMO (Crew Medical Officer)/operator to support the CDR on his upcoming (2/4) ICV Echo session.  After temporarily deactivating the ALTEA (Anomalous Long Term Effects on Astronauts) DOSI equipment, Soichi Noguchi had ~1h50m to replace an A31p SSC (Station Support Computer, SSC-8) with a new T61p laptop (SSC-20), loading the T61p with NetGear-007 from DVD media, reconfiguring network settings and deploying the new Client with a USB camera (#1019), looking at the user.  ALTEA was then again turned on.    [The laptop swap was in preparation for STS-130/20A.]  Oleg Kotov closed out the Russian DZZ-13 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) science experiment after yesterday’s session and downloaded the accumulated data, then terminated the download and downlinked the files via OCA.     [RUSALKA ops involve calibration and tests of research equipment relating to the Sun and the Earth's limb at sunset (atmosphere lighted).  To be tested are the procedure for remote determination of Methane (CH4) & Carbon Dioxide (CO2) content in the atmosphere (in the First Phase), measurement of CH4 & CO2 content in the atmosphere and reception of data on NI2 and NI4 content over the territories subjected to natural and technogenic effects, reception of sufficient data on seasonal dependencies of tropospheric parameters being studied (in the Second Phase).  Equipment used:  Rusalka monoblock, Nikon D2X(s) digital photo camera; AF VR Nikkor ED 80-400f/4.5-5.6D lens with ultraviolet filter, bracket for attachment to the window, and Rusalka-Accessories set.  Support hardware: Device TIUS /DKShG/PNSK, Laptop RSK1, and Software Package loading disk.]  Williams disassembled the Canadian SODI DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument / Diffusion Soret Coefficient) equipment, removed the optical modules and stowed the DSC hardware, leaving the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) feedthroughs and MLC configuration unchanged.    [This supports the upcoming MSG recertification that begins during the 20A mission.  Using SODI IVIDIL (Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids) equipment, DSC’s purpose is the study of diffusion in six different liquids over time in microgravity.]  Later in the day, Jeff Williams set up the Vascular Blood Collection hardware for his second (and final) sample collection, scheduled tomorrow.  The FE-1 completed the periodic service of downloading data files from the BU (Control Unit) of the running BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment in the SM for archiving on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinking NIKON D2X photographs of the growing plants in the LADA greenhouse.    [The archiving can take up to 5 hrs.  Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-16 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP), currently planted with Mizuna seeds.  Mizuna (Brassica rapa nipposinica) is a tasty variety of Japanese mustard greens, also known as California Peppergrass, eaten as a salad.]   Maxim performed the regular weekly maintenance on the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization), primarily inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices) in contingency configuration, SLD cables for fraying and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time & date values.    [Baseline photos were taken for ground inspection of the damaged SLD cable sheath.]  Also in the SM, Suraev did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).  As part of this task, Maxim today unstowed the water pumping equipment (#41) and flushed the BV1 Rodnik tank of Progress 35P with 3-5L of disinfectant from an EDV container.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  In addition, the FE-1 took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Oleg performed another checkout of the STTS MBS hard-line communications from Soyuz TMA-17/21S, first unstowing and connecting a drag-through extension cable between 21S and the FGB GA comm panel, with a PTT (push-to-talk) and headset plugged into the GA comm panel, then testing two-way communications between Soyuz and TsUP-Moscow in the MBS Channel over S/G1 (Space-to-Ground 1).    [Reason for the comm checks are issues between Soyuz vehicle and the FGB; root cause unknown at this time.  The Soyuz comm test will be repeated when 21S has been relocated to SM aft.]  FE-1 & FE-4 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Oleg at ~11:05am, Max at ~1:35pm EST.  At ~10:45am, Noguchi supported a JAXA PAO TV in-flight event with Nippon TV’s program “NEWS ZERO @ Space” in Tokyo, Japan.  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  Progress 36P Launch:   Final countdown is underway at the Baikonur, Kazakhstan, launch site as preparations continue for tonight’s launch of the Progress M-04M/36P cargo vehicle to the ISS, carrying ~2.5 tons of cargo.  The Soyuz-U launch vehicle was rolled out from the integration building yesterday and is being readied on the launch pad for its 10:45:29pm EST liftoff.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan (Bishkek is the largest city in Kyrgyzstan.  It is located to the south of the Kirgizskiy Mountains and to the northwest of Lake Issyk Kul.  The city should have been visible a little left of track.  Overlapping images of this capital city were requested), Vientiane, Laos (the Laotian capital city is located on the north bank of the Mekong River forming the border with Thailand.  The dry season is underway and fair weather was expected on this pass.  ISS approached the Mekong River valley and the target area from the NW.  Looking just right of track for this city on a right-angle bend of the Mekong), Lake Nasser, Toshka Lakes, Egypt (weather was predicted to be clear over these manmade lakes, created by spillover from nearby Lake Nasser.  Imagery of the current lake shorelines is of particular interest to track changes in water level over time), N'Djamena, Chad (N'Djamena is the capital and largest city of this large central African country.  The city should be visible nadir to your orbit track and at the confluence of the Chari and Logone rivers.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), and Bamako, Mali (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over the capital city of Mali.  The city is located in the southwestern part of Mali on the Niger River.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested).  