02-04-2010February 04, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 02/04/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Short crew day, with extended Sleep Cycle shift beginning to accommodate tonight’s Progress 36P docking and STS-130/20A arrival next week:  Wake period today:  1:00am – 10:40am EST.  At wake-up, FE-4 Kotov began his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator.    [The filters were installed by Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  With Kotov taking HD (high-definition) photo/video documentation, FE-1 Suraev took the Russian GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment at SM window #9 through another experiment run, letting the equipment collect recordings of Earth surface images and spectrometric radiation at the Earth’s limb.  Afterwards, the gear was disassembled and stowed.    [Using the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and HD camcorder, the experiment observed the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #9, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]  After concluding his 4th ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory session yesterday, CDR Williams today performed the associated ICV Resting Echo session, his 4th, assisted by FE-6 Creamer as Operator (CMO/Crew Medical Officer), the first time for him in handling the ICV Echo scans.      [Wearing electrodes, ECG (Electrocardiograph) cable & VOX, Jeff underwent the ultrasound scan for the Resting Echo mode of ICV, with video being recorded from the HRF (Human Research Facility) Ultrasound and COL cabin camera.  After confirmed file transfer, the gear was powered down and stowed. The ultrasound echo experiment uses the Image Collector software on the laptop and requires VOX/Voice plus RT Video downlink during the activity.  Goal of the ICV experiment is to quantify the extent, time course, and clinical significance of cardiac atrophy and identify its mechanisms.  The experiment consists of two separate but related activities over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).  The FD75 echo scan includes an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.]  Williams took another step on the road to recover the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser), by reconfiguring the OGS WDS (Oxygen Generation System / Water Delivery System) to feed the potable water bus of the PWD.  Creamer then purged the water lines, flushing the entire volume of the WDS accumulator and potable water bus (~17 L) into a CWC-I (Iodinated Contingency Water Container), then reconfigured the WDS to feed the OGS (Oxygen Generator System) in preparation for tomorrow’s OGA (Oxygen Generator Assembly) sampling activity.    [Objective of the flush is to rid the WDS lines of any air causing problems with the PWD.  On Saturday (2/6), the filter inside the PWD will also be purged, which hopefully be the final step.]  In preparation for tonight’s Progress docking, TJ Creamer & Soichi Noguchi conducted the regular functional test of the RS (Russian Segment) video “scheme” which employs TV conversion to U.S. NTSC format and Ku-band of the RS video signal from the SONY HDV camera via MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoder from FGB & SM, in order to downlink “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.   [The associated conversion laptop, an A31p (SSC-1) in the FGB, on which Oleg will monitor the video stream during the relocation, was later shut down by the FE-5.]  Also for the 36P docking –  Jeff closed the protective shutters of the Lab and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) science windows, andSoichi shut down the ham/amateur radio equipment to prevent proximity RF interference with the Progress KURS radio.  Noguchi also supported JAXA payload activities by taking out, then reinserting the PLT (Payload Laptop Terminal) battery (“cold reboot”) and turning the PLT on.  Later, the laptop was deactivated again.  In the Russian MRM2 “Poisk” module, Oleg performed troubleshooting on Fan 2, which has failed by shutting down.    [Tests of the associated circuitry involved the Elektronika MMTs-01 Multimeter for continuity/resistance measurements, checking connectors and contact pins, testing the BVP switch panel and restoring the system to its initial configuration.]  Working on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), Jeff Williams removed & replaced the broken lower left snubber pin of the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System).  Afterwards, the CDR performed the regular 30-day inspection of the AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) Rack.     [The AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient.  It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.  AEDs are generally either held by trained personnel who will attend events or are public access units which can be found in places including corporate and government offices, shopping centers, airports, restaurants, casinos, hotels, sports stadiums, schools and universities, community centers, fitness centers, health clubs and any other location where people may congregate.]  FE-5 filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  Soichi also had ~1.5h for more prepacking of 20A return cargo, to be transferred to Endeavour next week.  In the SM, Maxim did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Oleg took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  At ~3:15am EST, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.  At ~5:05am, Oleg & Maxim linked up with TsUP stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory & stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.  The crewmembers worked out on an abbreviated physical exercise schedule on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-4), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6).  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Vientiane, Laos (the Laotian capital city is located on the north bank of the Mekong River forming the border with Thailand.  The dry season is underway and fair weather was expected on this pass.  ISS approached the Mekong River valley and the target area from the NW.  Looking just right of track for this city on a right-angle bend of the Mekong), Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei (the city of Bandar Seri Begawan is located on the northern bank of the Brunei River.  It is the capital and largest city of Brunei with an estimated population of 27,285 (2002).   Looking to the right of this descending pass to locate the city.  There may also have been some popcorn cumulus clouds present.  Overlapping images of the city were requested), Ashgabat, Turkmenistan (literally translated, Ashgabat means "Lovely City".  It is the capital and largest city of Turkmenistan.  The 2001 census registers the population at 695,300 and 2009 estimates calculates the population at 1 million.  The city is located between the Kara Kum desert and the Kopet Dag mountain range), Valletta, Malta (ISS had a pass over the capital city of this island nation – looking slightly right of track.  Some scattered cloud cover may have been present.  The city is located near an embayment on the northeastern coast of the largest island in the Malta archipelago.  Overlapping mapping frames of the city were requested), N'Djamena, Chad (N'Djamena is the capital and largest city of this large central African country.  The city should have been close to nadir from the orbit track and at the confluence of the Chari and Logone rivers.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), and Bamako, Mali (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over the capital city of Mali.  The city is located in the southwestern part of Mali on the Niger River.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested).  