
Payloads:
Astrobee/Smartphone Video Guidance Sensor (SVGS): Following the installation of the SVGS LED targets, an SVGS science session was performed. SVGS demonstrates the use of a photogrammetric vision-based technology for guidance, navigation, and control of a small spacecraft. Developed by NASA, the vision-based sensor computes the position and orientation vector of a target relative to a coordinate system attached to a camera in the host platform, in this case the International Space Station free-flying robot Astrobee. This demonstration consists of five maneuvers involving motion control and data capture for one, two, and three Astrobee robots.
EasyMotion: The crew donned the EasyMotion suit and then performed a Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) exercise session. The EasyMotion investigation uses whole body Electro-Myo-Stimulation (EMS) with a wearable body skin suit for an ISS crew member to perform pre- and postflight EMS-assisted exercises. EMS technology initiates spontaneous (involuntary) activation of global musculature (muscle, tendon, fascia) to be monitored (muscle tone/tension and stiffness) in-flight using the non-invasive Myoton technology that is currently aboard the space station for the Myotones investigation.
Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina): Data was transferred from the Lumina device, and the EveryWear App on an iPad was used to input the experiment parameter settings as appropriate. Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Human Research Facility-1 (HRF-1) Supply/Resupply: As needed, the crew transferred the contents from the HRF Consumables Kit to the HRF Supply Kit Purple and HRF Supply Kit Green. HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Multiple User System for Earth Sensing Facility (MUSES): The crew performed the MUSES server drawer vent cleaning. MUSES is an Earth imaging platform. As part of the company’s new commercial space-based digital imaging business, MUSES hosts earth-viewing instruments (Hosted Payloads) such as high-resolution digital cameras, hyperspectral imagers, and provides precision pointing and other accommodations. It hosts up to four instruments at the same time and offers the ability to change, upgrade, and robotically service those instruments. It also provides a test bed for technology demonstration and technology maturation by providing long-term access to the space environment on the ISS.
Multi-use Variable-g Platform (MVP)-Plant-01: As an extension of the MVP-Plant-01 experiment, three Petri plates containing 12 seeds each and appropriate growth media were placed on top of the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) airlock. Difficulty in germinating the seeds was encountered in the two nominal runs for the experiment, and this bonus experiment will be used to gather additional data.  Plant RNA Regulation Redux in MVP (MVP-Plant-01) profiles and monitors shoot and root development in plants in microgravity in order to understand the molecular mechanisms and regulatory networks behind how plants sense and adapt to changes in their environment. This understanding could contribute to the design of plants better able to withstand adverse environmental conditions, including long-duration spaceflight.
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab-1 (SABL-2): The crew installed a new CO2 controller in SABL2 and installed a CO2 monitor to calibrate the CO2 sensor in the SABL. SABL supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical, and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28V D/C and 5V D/C power supplies for investigation use.
Systems:
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Piping R&R: Today, the crew replaced the piping between the pump separator and the dose pump. The piping is replaced every 6 months as part of preventive maintenance to ensure continued performance and preclude a functional failure. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: There are two EVAs planned for March, and today, the crew participated in an EVA procedure conference with ground teams to discuss operations and ask questions. The crew also continued its review of the procedures related to the first EVA, the ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) 3A Prep. On top of recapping the EVA timelines and procedures from their previous review, the crew studied the get-ahead tasks and mission-specific Crib Sheet. The Crib Sheet contains contingency scenarios for planned and get-ahead tasks during the EVA. 
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Treadmill 2 (T2) Rack: After completing the T2 Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) repair, the crew worked on reinstalling T2 in its nominal configuration. First, the crew rotated the rack out of its overnight configuration to start the reinstallation process, which involved connecting cables and installing the axial isolators. Next, they realigned the Snubber Pin within the Snubber Cup via the Jam Nuts, which established a known reference to be used for centering the rack. Finally, the crew centered the T2 rack using the T2 isolators while the rack was free floating and performed a tool fit check of the rack sway space to ensure optimal Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (VIS) performance.
Onboard Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Self-Study Session: Cygnus (NG-17) is scheduled to launch on February 19th and berth with the ISS on February 21st. Today, the crew performed self-study OBT using the Robotics Onboard Trainer in preparation for Cygnus approach and rendezvous. The training session included a practice run for Cygnus capture using simulated Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS)operations.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Stow
Dragon Crew-3 Quiescent Checkout
Smartphone Video Guidance Sensor (SVGS) Test Operations
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Joint Diagnostics
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Power Cycle

