
Payloads
3DMM: The crew continued the sample collections, this time in the Node 3 area.  Surfaces in the space station contain microbes and associated biomolecules excreted by these microorganisms. Three-dimensional Microbial Mapping of ISS Environment (3DMM) uses DNA sequencing and other analyses to construct a 3D map of bacteria and bacterial products throughout the station. The team also plans to characterize how these microbes respond at a molecular level to specific stress conditions, including altered gravity and atmospheric composition. 
Antimicrobial Coatings (Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings or AC):  The crew touched each coupon on AC placard and took photos of the experiment.  Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis. 
PBRE-WR:  The crew performed the setup for the PBRE-WR experiment hardware in the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox).  The setup was successful, and initial difficulties with telemetry were resolved.  PBRE-WR (Packed Bed Reactor Experiment-Water Recovery) examines flow rates of gas and liquid through a filtering substrate in the space station water processor, replacing oxygen with nitrogen. This investigation could help identify optimum conditions and enhance accuracy of models that predict simultaneous flow of gas and liquid (two-phase flow) in microgravity.
The ISS Experience:  The crew set up the ISS Experience hardware and recorded details regarding the ISS Experience external camera installed on the JEM airlock slide table.  The International Space Station Experience (The ISS Experience) is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station. Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.  The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Plant Water Management:  The crew performed the activities necessary to stow the PWM experiment hardware.  The ground team was very happy with the science performed.  The Plant Water Management investigation demonstrates passive measures for controlling fluid delivery and uptake in plant growth systems. Reduced gravity creates challenges in providing adequate fluid and nutrition for plant growth. This investigation examines using other physical properties such as surface tension, wetting and system geometry to replace the role of gravity.
Time Perception: The crew set up the appropriate hardware and participated in a Time Perception science session.  The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time perception in microgravity is also fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. The Time Perception in Microgravity experiment quantifies the subjective changes in time perception in humans during and after long-duration exposure to microgravity.
Systems
Space Acceleration Measurement System (SAMS) ZBook Hard Drive Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew removed the failed SAMS-II Control Unit ZBook hard drive and replaced it with an operable hard drive from inventory. Once the R&R was complete, the crew loaded the SAMS software onto the hard drive from a USB. SAMS-II measures vibrations and transient acceleration disturbances resulting from ISS vehicle activities, ISS systems operations, experiment operations, crew movements, and ISS structure thermal expansion and contraction.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuration: The crew performed several tool inspections and configurations in preparation for the IROSA Prep EVA. The crew inspected unmounted and mounted RETs, equipment hooks, door/handle rivets, door eyelets, and IVA bungees. The crew also configured dual tether point hardware, strut bag/IPA mod kits, and EVA cable reel bags.
Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 2: FE-10 and FE-12 completed a ROBoT simulation in preparation for NG-15 berthing operations. In this session, the crew ran through multiple vehicle capture scenarios with the SSRMS to gain proficiency. NG-15 is scheduled for launch on Saturday, February 20, 2021 and berthing on Monday, February 22, 2021.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

NORS N2 Repressurization
ROBoT Simulation Setup and Support

