
Mouse Mission-5: As a continuation of the preparation for the upcoming Mouse Mission-5, the crew performed the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) power cable reconnect and filter installation.  Stress caused by partial G may alter gene expression in cells of the body. The investigation analyzes any such alterations and their possible effects on development of germ cells, which carry genetic information and expression to subsequent generations.
Hermes:   The crew performed the periodic vacuum valve opening for HERMES.  These operations maintain the desired vacuum levels for the granular/regolith simulation experiments typically hosted by the HERMES facility.  Hermes is a reconfigurable on-orbit facility capable of accommodating up to four user-configurable experiment volumes at a time. The facility provides long duration exposure to microgravity, vacuum (at least 10-3 torr), power, lighting, cameras, customizable experiment tools, downlink of data, access to data storage, autonomous monitoring, acceleration measurements, and ground commanding of the lighting, cameras, and experiments tools.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS):  As a continuation of the operations with JWRS, the crew disconnecting the appropriate hoses, cables and bags from JEM WRS Processor.  This is the first in a series of three sets of activities to accomplish the current goal. The JWRS demonstration will generate potable water from urine using some different, and possibly more efficient, technologies than the water reclamation currently in use on the ISS.  In the past on manned spacecraft, urine and waste water were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Radi-N2 deploy: After initialization and handover from the Russian crew, the neutron detectors were deployed in the Cupola window 3 and 4 area.  The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Systems:
Northrop Grumman (NG)-13 Arrival Preparation: In preparation for Cygnus arrival, the crew completed a second Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session. The Cygnus spacecraft is scheduled to rendezvous with the ISS on Tuesday, February 18th with an estimated capture time of 3:00 am CT.
Completed Task List Activities:
Found Items Stow
Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Node 1 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) Inspection

Tuesday, 2/18 (GMT 049)
Payloads:


Cold Stowage transfers

Systems:

Robotics Workstation (RWS) Configuration
Cygnus R-BAR Approach
Capture Cygnus
Cygnus PCS Command and PROX Link Verification
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Ops and Teardown
Photo TV High Definition (HD) Cygnus Video Setup
Vestibule Outfitting
Cygnus Ingress and Photos

Wednesday, 2/19 (GMT 050)
Payloads:


NRCSD-17 deploys
DOSIS-3D cable swap
LSG prep
Mobile Space Lab install
OsteoOmics
Phage Evolution
PL NAS clean
Cold Stowage transfers
Tangolab 2 card cube replace

Systems:

Review Emergency OBT Simulator Functionality
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Stow

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


MO-8. Preparation
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
МО-8. Closeout Ops
Hermes Vacuum Valve Open
Soyuz 744 Kazbek Fit Check
Cygnus 13 Cargo Ops
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Power Cable Reconfiguration.
COSMOCARD. 24hr electrocardiogram recording (prep + init)
Cell Biology Experiment Facility – Left (CBEF-L) Filter Attachment
TERMINATOR. RSS2 Software Update.
SEPARATION [СРВ-У-РС] System Activation. Starting distillation cycles.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-Left (CBEF-L) and Video Compression and Recording Unit 2 (VRU2) Cable Reconfiguration
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE dosimeter detector setup and initializing
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS) Cable Disconnection.
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeter detectors to USOS
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons Hardware Handover
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE dosimeter initialization and deployment for exposure
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons
OFT Bag Unpack
SEPARATION Distillation monitoring.
Cygnus Cargo Operations Review
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Update Navigation Computer Module-1 [НВМ-1] SW configuration file. Connect RSK1 Laptop to [НВМ-1] Module
Cygnus Cargo Operations Conference
SEPARATION [СРВ-У-РС] System Deactivation. Log file Downlink
Cygnus Capture Review
HAM Radio Procedure Review
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 2
Update Navigation Computer Module-2 [НВМ-2] SW configuration file. Connect RSK1 Laptop to [НВМ-2] Module
Replace ПФ1-4 dust filter cartridges (МИМ1_ЛБ_208, Bag 442-14 (00076772R). Discard de-installed items. Reflect changes in IMS.) in SM
Update Navigation Computer Module-2 [НВМ-2] SW configuration file. Hardware nominal reconfiguration
Auxiliary Laptop Computer System Virus Definition File Update
Overlay Camera Calibration
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Termination
Private Special Conference (PSC)
Monitoring shutter closure on SM windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14 Note 8
Preparation for Antivirus Scanning on [ВКС] Laptops

 