
Payloads:
Four Bed CO2 (4BCO2) Scrubber: The Acoustic Blanket was installed, and acoustic tests were performed. The 4BCO2 Scrubber was then stowed. 4BCO2 Scrubber demonstrates a technology for removing carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere on a spacecraft. The technology is based on the current system in use on the ISS with mechanical upgrades in absorption beds, heater elements, and valves and use of an improved zeolite absorbent to reduce erosion and dust formation. A goal for next-generation systems is continuous operation for 20,000 hours without a failure, and this technology is a step toward that goal.
Airborne Particulate Monitor: The Airborne Particulate Monitor Hardware was installed and photographed in the LAB. Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. The Airborne Particulate Monitor demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
Cell Gravisensing: Hardware was retrieved from the Cell Gravisensing Starter Kit. Recent spaceflight experiments have revealed that individual animal cells can feel the effects of gravity. However, how cells can sense gravity is largely unknown, thus understanding this mechanism emerges as one of the most important problems to be solved in space biology. Elucidation of Gravisensing Mechanism in Single Cells (Cell Gravisensing) investigation challenges this problem through the analysis of the substrate-rigidity sensing capability of cells during spaceflight.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with Stella Maris College, Gzira, Malta. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions. 
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The D2Xs EarthKAM Camera was reconfigured with the 85mm EVA Lens. Not everyone can go to space, but everyone can see Earth from an astronaut’s perspective with the EarthKAM program. Thousands of students can remotely control a digital camera mounted on the ISS, and use it to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges and other interesting features and phenomena. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the Internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view Earth from a unique vantage point.
Grip: The third part of Grip science tasks (3 out of 3) was performed in the supine position. The Grip experiment studies long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements such as oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE): The SoFIE experiment samples and igniter tip were replaced. GEL sample 1406 was installed into position A and sample 1407 was installed into position C. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. While SoFIE initially meets the requirements of five investigations, it is intended for use by any researchers who propose related solid combustion studies to NASA in the future.
Veg-05: The plants growing in the two Veggie facilities were inspected, watered as needed, and photographed. The plant Root Mats were filled. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
ISS Safety Video: A video survey of the ISS was performed for ground analysis. The crew obtained video of the interior volume that allows the ground team to assess the current vehicle configuration and to identify any areas of concern related to ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, emergency egress paths, access to fire ports, and safety equipment. The Safety Video Survey is performed approximately every six months.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): As part of routine maintenance, the crew R&Red the WHC UR and IF. After the R&R, the crew cleaned the power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance activities. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tasks: An EVA tool stow was completed, and Metal Oxide (METOX) regeneration was terminated for two canisters and initiated for two other canisters. The METOX canisters consist of metal oxide sheet assemblies, a charcoal bag containing activated charcoal, and a container and cover panel with cast headers that are fastened to the container. The canister removes metabolically produced CO2 in the EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) during EVA or prebreathe activities and removes trace contaminants from the EMU vent loop.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluations: The HMS monitors crew health, responds to crew illness or injury, provides preventive health care, and provides stabilization and emergency transport between vehicles. Today the crew completed Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluations using an otoscope for ear imagery and other tools for measuring and recording the crew’s temperature, blood pressure, pulse, and respiratory rate.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Crew Dragon System Checkout

