
Payloads:
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS):  The JWRS components (water processor and controller system) were removed from their Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) location to make room for future experiment hardware.  JWRS is a pilot-scale system capable of generating 1 liter per day of potable water from urine. In the past on crewed spacecraft, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard.  For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor.  Demonstration of the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions. 
Multi-use Variable-g Platform (MVP)-Plant-01: The crew inspected and took images of the seed development in the three MVP Plant-01 petri plates.  These three plates are considered “bonus science” since they are in addition to the 2 nominal runs already performed.  Difficulty in germinating the seeds was encountered in the two nominal runs for the experiment, and this bonus experiment will be used to gather additional data.  Plant RNA Regulation Redux in MVP (MVP-Plant-01) profiles and monitors shoot and root development in plants in microgravity, in order to understand the molecular mechanisms and regulatory networks behind how plants sense and adapt to changes in their environment. This understanding could contribute to the design of plants better able to withstand adverse environmental conditions, including long-duration spaceflight.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The information for the next PK-4 science campaign was reviewed and the video monitor for the experiment was set up.  PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas:  low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles:  so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics, and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas.
Space Flight-Associated Neuro-Ocular Syndrome Ocular Rigidity Investigation (SANSORI): A video was recorded for the SANSORI experiment, including discussion of its hypothesis and other details.  SANSORI investigates whether stiffness of the eye, called ocular rigidity, contributes to development of Space Flight-Associated Neuro-Ocular Syndrome (SANS). SANS causes vision impairment in astronauts following long-term space flight missions. A better understanding of the mechanisms and risk factors that contribute to SANS could help identify mitigation measures and the individuals who would most benefit from them.
Sampling Quadrangle Assemblages Research Experiment (SQuARE):  The crew took photos of the SQuARE experiment sites located in the Node 1 Galley, JEM, Columbus, Node 2, Node 3, and the US Lab.  SQuARE is an investigation that aims to document items within six defined locations around the ISS over time. The idea is to look at the ISS as an archaeological site, and each of the Squares as a “test pit”.
TangoLab: The crew removed the Cards and Cubes from the TangoLab-4 facility, and then removed the facility from its EXPRESS Rack in preparation for return to ground.  Following this, they installed cards S/N 014 into slot 6 and S/N 019 into slot 7 in the TangoLab-2 facility.  Space Tango MultiLab Lockers are reconfigurable general research facilities designed for microgravity research and development, and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS.
Wireless Compose-2: Additional troubleshooting was performed for the SmartTex shirts, which have had comm issues in the past.  The main scientific goal of the Wireless Communication Network (Wireless Compose-2) investigation is to provide a flexible and adaptable wireless network infrastructure to conduct and execute low-power, low-weight, and wireless experiments on the ISS. For this demonstration, Wireless Compose-2 operates several experiments, including an experiment to examine the impact of the space environment on the cardiovascular system. Additionally, Wireless Compose-2 demonstrates newly developed impulse radio ultra-wide-band (IR-UWB) hardware to enable precise localization applications and to analyze the energy harvesting potential on the ISS.
Systems:
Cygnus NG-17 Arrival Preparations: The crew continued preparations for the arrival of Cygnus NG-17 on Monday, February 21st. NG-17 is a cargo mission, and the Cygnus vehicle will transport important science experiments, equipment, and crew provisions to the ISS. Since the Cygnus is a berthing vehicle, it will approach the Node 1 Nadir port, and the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS), also known as the robotic arm, will capture it and bring it to the port. The crew trains both on the ground and onboard the space station to assist with these robotics operations. As part of today’s arrival preparations, the crew performed an Onboard Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session and reviewed cargo operations. The crew also opened the hatch latches at Node 1 Nadir to minimize the possibility of a hatch mechanism jam due to foreign object debris (FOD) or other damage that would preclude the hatch from opening for mating with the Cygnus.  The Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) was also installed in preparation for the Cygnus arrival. The CBCS is a camera system used to provide relative state information to an SSRMS operator as a “GO / No-GO” gauge during the mating of modules and vehicles to Common Berthing Mechanism ports on the ISS. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #2 Procedure Review for Extravehicular Crew: Today, the crew continued its review of procedures related to the Radiator Beam Valve Module (RBVM) Jumper Install EVA, the second of two upcoming March EVAs. The review consisted of the timelines, procedures, and tool configurations the crew will use. During this EVA, the crew will install two RBVM Jumpers on the port side of the ISS Truss. These two jumpers were uninstalled during an EVA in 2018, returned to ground for refurbishment, and launched back to the ISS on Cargo Dragon for reinstallation.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) EMU Don/Doff Assembly (EDDA) Troubleshooting (T/S): The EDDA aids crewmembers with putting on and taking off their Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs), or spacesuits, in the ISS Joint Airlock. Earlier this month, the crew reported the Aft EDDA lower locking knob pin was binding and unable to fully engage without excessive force. Today, the crew assisted the ground team in determining if the issue is with the EDDA latching mechanism or something else, and the ground team is coordinating a forward plan.
Lab Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Dual Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Configuration:There are five CCAAs (or air conditioners) on the ISS that actively circulate, cool, and dehumidify air within a module to provide a habitable atmosphere. CCAAs support the Inter-Module Ventilation (IMV) in providing for diffusion of oxygen from its introduction point, temperature, humidity, particulate and microbial growth control, and promotion of CO2 and trace contaminant removal. Today, the crew assisted with the transition from single CCAA operations to operating both Lab CCAAs for additional airflow and/or conditioning. The Low Temperature Loop (LTL) can be configured to flow to one or both CCAAs.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Treadmill 2 (T2) Rack: The crew completed the X-Axis Isolator Remove and Replace (R&R) but encountered issues with the isolator adjustments. Ground teams are working a forward plan.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Treadmill 2 (T2) Ground Activation
Dual CCAA operations in the Lab Support
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout

