02-19-2011February 19, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 02/19/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – Crew rest day.   Sleep cycle shift:   Wake – 2:30am; Sleep – 4:30pm (returning to regular) FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dmitri will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.] Scott Kelly continued his current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 8th session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.] Also at wake-up, CDR Kelly, FE-5 Nespoli & FE-6 Coleman completed another post-sleep shift session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.  It was the 11th for Scott, the 12th for Cady & Paolo.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.] Kelly, Kaleri, Skripochka, Kondratyev, Nespoli & Coleman completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.] As part of the uborka house cleaning, Sasha, Oleg & Dima conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille and Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM (Service Module). At ~8:30am EST, the Russian Flight Engineers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events. In the DC1, FE-2 Skripochka terminated the recharge on the 2nd pack of 825M3 EVA batteries. FE-5 Nespoli updated his daily diet log for his 4th six-day session for the SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) experiment, which entails diet intake loggings (low salt diet), body mass measurements and blood & urine samplings.       [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Paolo ingested a special High Salt diet (which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level), for Session 2 he switched to a Low salt diet.  SOLO Diets start with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are logged daily on sheets stowed in the PCBA Consumable Kit in the MELFI along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) on Days 4 & 6.  Blood samples are taken on Day 5, centrifuged & inserted in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) and also measured with the PCBA.  24-hr urine collections are performed on Day 5, with sample insertion in MELFI.    Background:   SOLO, a NASA/ESA-German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 & MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.] Kelly, Coleman & Nespoli reviewed uplinked “Big Picture” material on the upcoming robotics activities during the ULF5 docked period, followed at ~11:00am EST by the first of several planned STS-133/ULF5 crew conferences.     [At STS-133 arrival, the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) will be based on Node-2, the SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator) on the Lab with CTC (Cargo Transport Container) being held by Arm 1, and FHRC (Flex Hose Rotary Coupler) located on the SPDM’s EOTP (Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform), and the MT (Mobile Transporter) is at WS3 (Workstation 3).  Node-1 nadir ACBM (Active CBM) survey and CBM (Common Berthing Mechanism) checkout will be complete.  After a final SRMS (Shuttle Remote Manipulator System) checkout after STS-133 launch, ELC4 will be unberthed & transferred on docking day (FD3/Flight Day 3).  EVA-1 will take place on FD5.  ON FD6, PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) will be unberthed and installed, followed by EVA-2 on FD7.  The Fly-About of Soyuz 24S for special external documentary/historical photography is planned for 3/5, i.e., FD10 (in the +1 day scenario) based on a 2/24 launch.] After the final repress of the ISS stack with ~26.5 lbs of O2 (oxygen) from Progress M-09M/41P (#409), Skripochka purged & inerted the cargo ship’s SrPK (air supply tankage) Section 2 by charging it with N2 (nitrogen).    [41P is scheduled for undocking on 4/26.] Kaleri meanwhile worked on the Vozdukh carbon dioxide (CO2) scrubber, replacing the CO2 filter of its delta gas analyzer with a new spare.  The old unit was discarded as trash. Scott Kelly completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router & FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) laptops (the latter required to mitigate the problem of iPV and OSTPV not opening up procedures due to a memory leak in the “Tomcat” software).  After a period of no less than 10 min later, the CDR also rebooted the two ISS network servers (SERVER1 & 2). Dmitri Kondratyev conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] At ~6:45am EST, Nespoli powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 6:50am conducted a ham radio session with students at “Imparare Sperimentando” (Experiencing Learning ) in San Quirino, Italy. At ~9:05am, Kaleri, Skripochka & Kondratyev downlinked messages of greetings & well-wishing to participants at two separate events,- (1) the 6th Congress of the Russian Federation of Cosmonautics on 2/25, this year dedicated to Yuri Gagarin, and (2) the traditional “Ice Show” at Kaluga on 3/11-13, held by the Regional Welfare Funds “Vozrozhdenie” (renaissance, revival) dedicated to Yuri Gagarin’s birthday and the 50th Anniversary of his space flight as first human. At ~11:40am, Alex, Oleg & Dmitri engaged in a PAO phone interview via S-band with Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos Magazine and an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.  At ~3:50pm, Scott Kelly is scheduled for his regular weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop). The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.] WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.       [The new card (26-0045I) lists 113 CWCs (2,302.6 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (18 CWCs with 716.5 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 388.5 L in 10 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 170.8 L in 4 bags for transfer into EDV-RP containers via US/RSA-B hose, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only;  2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (83 CWCs with 1,537.3 L for reserve, of which 271.9 L in 15 CWCs are listed as “expired”;  4. condensate water (22.9 L in 2 bags, with 6.3 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 8 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (25.9 L in 2 CWCs from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] Progress 39P Undocking:   Progress M-07M/39P undocking is scheduled tomorrow morning at 8:12am EST.  Russian thrusters will be disabled from 8:08am-8:14am.  After separation, from 8:17am-8:22am, U.S CMGs (Control Moment Gyroscopes) will maneuver the ISS to its post-undock TEA (Torque Equilibrium Attitude).  39P deorbit burn to destructive re-entry  is scheduled tomorrow at ~11:12am. Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Six -- Week 13). 2D NANO Template (JAXA):    No report. 3D SPACE:    “Cady and Paolo, thank you very much for executing your 3rd 3D-space session as voluntary science activity last Saturday!  The science team is very happy with the pictures where Paolo is mimicking the experiment, we forward here their words to you: "These photographs are awesome!"” AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report. ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete. ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     No report. APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report. APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report. BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):      “It has been about a week since the last round of BCAT pictures came down.  We expect another round of pictures very soon, but we really don’t expect to see crystals forming (according to the PI) until the experiment has run for a few weeks.  We were pleasantly surprised in the past for other types of colloid samples, but at the moment we are trying to conserve astronaut time and know that waiting three to four weeks to take pictures will tell us what angles are best for observing crystals when they do form.  Thank you.” BIOLAB (ESA):    “Dear Cady, we really appreciate your help during the weekend by removing the gripper of the handling mechanism.  We received your crew note containing very valuable feedback; we will certainly take your advice into account.” BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):     No report. BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report. BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report. CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for   Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report. CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete. CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   CB cleanup in the Saibo Rack was performed on 12/22. CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:      No report. CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report. CERISE (JAXA):    No report. CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):      No report. CFS-A (Fungi-A):   Awaiting ULF5 launch. CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing. CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete. CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:     No report. Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report. CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report. CsPins (JAXA):      CsPins planned runs (#2-3,2-4,2-5) were moved to Inc 27 / 28 (before ULF7 Docked). CubeLab:    CubeLab completed three Data Collect activities this week: 2/14, 2/16, 2/18.  Each Data Collect was nominal, with no more missing file situations.  Approximately 450 pictures with health and status information were collected this week, each providing successful science and reflecting proper operation. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete. DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report. DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS, ESA):    Acquiring science data with DOSTEL-2 detector. EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report. EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report. ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.  EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    No report. ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report. EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD. EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Hobbies):      No report. EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Kids in Space):   No report. EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report. EPO GREENHOUSE (ESA):   “Paolo and Scott, that was a great performance during the live link. Thanks for initiating both experiments, we are eagerly waiting to see some green dots!“ EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    No report..EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report. EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report. EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15. EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete. EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report. EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    This exp consist of IVA and EVA tasks.EVA task is planned on EVA1 (FD5). IVA task is FD6.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report. EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report. EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete. EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report. EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report. EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   This task is scheduled on 3/9 (fam) and 3/10 (execution). ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]   No report. ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed. FACET-2 (JAXA):   No report.  FERULATE (JAXA):    No report. FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     A FIR/LMM/CVB Functional Checkout was successfully performed on 2/15. Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132. FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report. FOCUS:    No report. FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):     No report. FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report. GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report. GEOFLOW:    No report. HAIR (JAXA):    No report. HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1. Hicari (JAXA):    Hicari planned run was moved to Inc 27 / 28. Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report. HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P. HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):     HICO has taken 2590 images to date.  The most recent HICO images taken include images of the Malacca Strait and Cape Town, South Africa.  RAIDS is collecting secondary science including nighttime atmospheric disk photometry, spectra and temperatures.  Extreme Ultra Violet airglow spectroscopy (daytime and nighttime) and optical contamination studies are also being performed. HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):    The sample is scheduled to return on ULF5 Flight. ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete. ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     No report. IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete. INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report. InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report. IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report. ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     “Paolo and Cady:  You continue conducting contacts at a pace that could prove to be a record breaker.  Paolo, you have conducted 13 events and Cady you have conducted 8.  Normal count at this point in a crew’s tour would be closer to 7.  The event with Matsubara high school in Japan was a complete success with all questions answered.  The event in Italy on Thursday was also very well received by all including 100 present and those watching by webcast.  So far, contacts have been made with Italy, Japan, Poland, USA, Russia, Canada, France, Germany and Norway.” IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.  KID/KUBIK6:    No report. Kids in Micro-G:    “Thank you, Cady, for completing the Kids in Micro-g gather!  We anticipate this being a huge time saver when the time comes to execute the six experiments.  The topics of this year's student-designed experiments include electrostatics, projectile motion, density, buoyancy, and motion of a pendulum.  The experiment videos will be sent to the schools of the experiment designers and used on NASA education websites.  These videos will aid students in gaining a better understanding of the microgravity environment and the ISS as a science laboratory.  In addition to helping students understand the differences between scientific phenomena in space and on Earth, the goal of these videos is to encourage the pursuit of STEM careers.  An extra thank you for recording the gather activity. We've submitted a request for the video footage.” KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report. LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report. Marangoni Exp (JAXA):    24th run was completed on 12/22. Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf. Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    3rd and 4th runs were performed during 2/14-16.  During image data downlink for 4th run, packet loss occurred intermittently.  All data was recovered. Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Currently acquiring nominal science data in Kibo. MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    No report. MDCA/Flex:    While we examine all possible failure scenarios for MDCA Needle 1, we plan to perform heptane test points using MDCA Needle 2 early next week. MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.  Microbe-2 (JAXA):    No report. Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete. MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report. MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally except for PEC B.  MISSE-7 PEC B experienced an over-temp condition and was powered off.  The Principal Investigator has decided to leave PEC B powered off for remainder of MISSE-7 mission in order to preserve stored science data within PEC B, which will be retrieved on STS-134.  MISSE-7 completed primary science objectives in Nov 2010 (1-year on orbit). MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4. MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report. MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report. MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”. MULTIGEN-1:   Completed. MYCO 3 (JAXA):    No report. MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20. NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A. NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report. NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete. NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:     “Cady, with the completion of your 3rd Nutrition session, you only have 2 more to go.  Your next session will be on or near FD120.” PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report. PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report. PASSAGES (JAXA):    “Scott, thanks a lot for finishing your second session last Tuesday. The science team received the full data set already.“ PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report. PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report. PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG. PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete. POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete. Pro K:     “Paolo, your 3rd ProK session was completed this week.  Your next session will be in Increment 27.” RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete. RadSilk (JAXA):    No report. RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Scott, Paolo and Cady, thank you for your continued participation in Reaction Self Test!” RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report. SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report. SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report. SAMPLE:    Complete. SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report. SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20. SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete. SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report. SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Scott: Thank you for completing another week of Sleep logs.  Your last week of logging is being targeted for early March.” SMILES (JAXA):   Recooling mode #13. SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report. SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    No report. SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    Happy birthday SOLAR!  SOLAR is now being operated for 3 years since its installation on February 15, 2008.  Out of Sun visibility window and kept in Idle mode as precaution to prevent the SolACES instrument efficiency decrease. SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    “Paolo, we thank you very much for all your great effort during your first week of diet.  We take note of your proposals and feedback to make the SOLO experiment more efficient.  We wish you all the best next week!“ Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report. SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):     No report. SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA):    No report. SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.    SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report. SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report. TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report. THERMOLAB (ESA):    No report. TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned. TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report. ULTRASOUND:    Planned. VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report. VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring science data with NorAIS receiver. VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    No report. VO2max (NASA):    No report. VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report. WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report. YEAST B (ESA):    No report. CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    Through 2/15 the ground has received 16,365 of ISS CEO frames for review and cataloging.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following target with a time corresponding to one of our daily CEO Target Request list:  NW Glaciers of N. Patagonian Ice Field - your imagery was detailed, well-composed, and focused, but most of your views were either of the S. Patagonian Ice Field or the eastern part of the N. Patagonian Ice field - in the future we will work harder to help you locate our specific area of interest in this region.  Your beautifully composed and illuminated view of the Emi Koussi Volcano in northern Chad was published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  This fine, short-lens view nicely documents the major structural features of this extensive shield volcano in a single frame.  Wow!” CEO targets uplinked for today were Tropical Cyclone Dianne, E. Indian Ocean (DYNAMIC EVENT:  Australia has been experiencing a very active tropical weather season this year.  It appears, from the Joint Typhoon Warning Center forecast, that it will be spared the worst of Tropical Cyclone Dianne.  ISS had a mid-afternoon pass well to the west of the forecast center.  At this time, as ISS tracked northeastward over the open waters of the eastern Indian Ocean, the crew was to look obliquely right of track and try for short lens views to acquire the extent and gross structure of this intensifying Category 2-3 tropical cyclone), NW Glaciers of N. Patagonian Ice Field (weather was expected to be fair for views of this target area as the crew approached from W to WNW in mid-morning light.  The Northern Patagonian Ice Field is the smaller of South America’s two major ice fields and situated just inland at the crest of the Andes Mountains with glaciers nearly reaching the Pacific.  Looking from near-nadir to just right of track to acquire detailed views of the San Quintin, San Rafael, Guelas and Reicher Glaciers.  ISS CEO are used to monitor changes in size and texture of these beautiful glaciers), and Harare, Zimbabwe (with a population estimated between 2 and 3 million, Harare is the administrative and commercial center of the landlocked country of Zimbabwe.  ISS had a mid-afternoon pass with a likelihood of partly cloudy skies at this time of the day.  As it tracked northeastward over the highlands of central Zimbabwe, the crew was to look near nadir for this low-contrast urban area.  The small reservoir of Lake Manyame to the west of the city may have been their best landmark.  CEO researchers are seeking views of the entire urban area in a single frame). 