
SpaceX-5 Dragon Departure:  Today, the crew configured the Dragon/Node-2 vestibule for demate by  disconnecting Air Revitalization System (ARS) jumper, both power and data jumpers, and installed the Center Disk Cover then closed the Node 2 Nadir Hatch.   Later, they depressurized and pressure checked the vestibule.  Dragon was then unberthed from the Node 2 Nadir docking port and released by the crew utilizing the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) at 1:11pm CST.  Later this afternoon, Dragon will perform a deorbit burn at ~5:49pm CST which sets the stage for a splashdown in the Pacific Ocean landing zone at ~6:44pm CST this evening. 
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Configuration:  Virts reconfigured power cables to the   microscope and laptop and performed checks to verify synchronization with ground commanding.   This activity was performed in preparation for the Plant Rotation experiment operations planned for later this week.
Aniso Tubule:  Virts prepared for the Aniso Tubule observations by retrieving a sample from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and set up on the Aquatic Habitat microscope.  The sample observation is started by ground commanding after sample installation and continues over 48 hours.  Experimenters will examine growth modifications of Arabidopsis hypocotyls and the changing orientation of cortical microtubule under microgravity conditions in space. Scientists will further observe changes in dynamics of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins by observing Arabidopsis hypocotyls and microtubule-associated proteins with a fluorescence microscope.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2):  Cristoforetti retrieved all 8 detectors from the deployed location in the US Lab and handed off the units to the Russian crew for processing all detectors in the Bubble Reader.  The Radi-N2 Neutron Field Study (Radi-N2) is a follow on investigation designed to characterize the neutron radiation environment aboard the ISS.  Eight neutron “bubble detectors” produced by the Canadian company Bubble Technology Industries are attached to fixed locations inside the ISS, including one carried by a crewmember. The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Wilmore and Virts configured EVA tools, reviewed training material, and became familiar with International Docking Adapter (IDA) cable hardware that will be installed during the upcoming EVA.  The EVA to install the IDA cables is scheduled for 20 February, 2015.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS in the hot backup configuration and set up the SSRMS for unberthing SpaceX-5 Dragon.  The ISS Crew unbolted and unlatched the Dragon from the Node 2 Nadir Common Berthing System (CBM) and then the Robotic Ground Controllers used the SSRMS to unberth it and maneuvered it to the release position.  The crew then released the Dragon and, once it had drifted out of the Latching End Effector (LEE) cavity, they backed the SSRMS away from it then commanded Dragon departure.  After departure, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position and supported a video survey of the Node2 Nadir CBM.  MSS performance today was nominal. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


ВКС Laptops Antivirus Software Checkout and Report to MCC
Video Footage of Greetings
RGN – Remove and Replace
MSPR – Hardware Activation
Periodic Fitness Evaluation – Nom Ops (subject)
RS1, RS2, RS3 Laptops Inspection And Cleaning
RELAXATION. Hardware Setup
RGN – Initiate drain into EDV
RELAKSATSIYA. Setting Parameters
RWS – Activation of DCP
Closing USOS Window Shutters
RGN – Terminate drain into EDV
RELAKSATSIYAObservation
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Setup
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
BCAT – Battery Charge
Collecting SM and FGB Air Samples Using АК-1М Sampler
Dragon Vestibule Configuration for Demate
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
MATRYOSHKA-R BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and readings
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
RADIN – Retrieval of dosimeters from deployed locations
RADIN – Handover of Dosimeters to the Russian Crew
RELAKSATSIYA. Closeout Ops
Dragon/Node 2 Vestibule Depress
RGN – Remove depress hose for nominal operations
CWC Fill – Part 1
Replacing СРВК-2М (БКО) Multifiltration Unit.
Video Footage for Channel One
CWC Fill – Part 2
ANISO – Retrieving samples and preparation for observation
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
Crew Command Panel (CCP) Cable Route and Checkout
Camcorder Setup to View LAB Remote Workstation (RWS) Monitor 1
WRS Water Sample Analysis
EVA Tool Config
Audit of Lights in RS (SM, MRM1, MRM2, DC1)
Node 2 – Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Demate
ТКГ424 (DC1) Stowage and IMS Ops
Bone Densitometer (BD) – Glove Bag Setup & Retrieval from MELFI
BCAT Battery Swap
Connector Training
FMK Deployment Ops
Grab Sample Container (GSC) Sampling Operations
RWS – System Config for Dragon Release
TOCA Data Recording
Preparation for SSRMS Dragon Release from Node 2 Nadir
SSRMS Dragon Release from Node 2 Nadir
Crew Command Panel (CCP) Cable Routing

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Commanding associated with SpaceX Dragon departure

