
Biological Rhythms 48-Hour:  Kelly began his third and final Biological Rhythms experiment today, preparing and starting the Actiwatch and donning a Holter Monitor to collect Electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements for 48 hours.  Biological Rhythms 48 hours studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours. While the ISS station maintains Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) as its time zone, it remains unknown whether a separate biological rhythm is imposed on long-term flight crews. To study this astronauts wear an Actiwatch sleep monitor for 96 hours and a Holter electrocardiograph for 48 hours in the middle of that sequence.
 
Cardio Ox:  Kopra, with Peake as the operator, performed a Flight Day 60 Cardio Ox ultrasound measurement session. The goal of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15, and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
 
Ocular Health Testing:  Today Kopra and Peake completed their Flight Day 60 Ocular Health testing by performing ocular and cardiac ultrasound scans.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Russian Joint Research (RJR) Microbiological Sampling:  Today Kornienko used the Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) and Surface Sample Kit (SSK) to take surface and air samples in the ISS to support a microbiological assessment of the ISS.  These activities are performed as part of a joint cooperative research program between NASA and the Russian Space Agency. The results of incubation and analysis of these samples will be used to identify ISS locations and surfaces prone to microbial contamination and will provide a scientific basis for decisions about future microbial monitoring on ISS and on future spacecraft used for human exploration.
 
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Departure Preparation:  Kelly and Kopra reviewed material associated with Cygnus departure then utilized a Robotic Trainer in order to practice nominal and off nominal release scenarios.   Later in the afternoon the crew completed transferring US and Russian trash into the Cygnus vehicle in preparation for Friday’s departure.
 
ISS Reboost:  This morning, the ISS successfully performed a reboost using the Progress 61 thrusters.  The burn duration was 11 minutes long in order to achieve a delta-V of 1.05 meters per second.  This reboost was the third in a series of reboosts to target the planned conditions for Soyuz 44 landing and Soyuz 46 4-Orbit Rendezvous next month.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

BIOME – Questionnaire Completion
BLR48 – Card Preparation
Russian Joint Research (RJR) – Collecting Surface Samples using SSK
Gathering Node 1 Nadir CBM Controller Panel Assembly (CPA)
Crew Departure Prep
Closing USOS Window Shutters
Ocular Health (OH) – Prep for Ultrasound Scan
Ocular Health (OH) – Ultrasound Scans
Ocular Health (OH) – Ultrasound 2 Scans
Closing window 6,8,9,12,13,14 shutters
LBNP Exercise (PRELIMINARY)
Ocular Health (OH) – Ultrasound 2 Data Export
Changeout of СРВ-К2М purification column assembly (БКО)
FPEF – Connector Removal
Ocular Health (OH) –  Ultrasound 2 Scan (Closeout Ops)
Onboard Training (OBT) – Cygnus Release and Departure Review
Transferring Data from Cargo Environment Sensor
Changeout of СРВК-2М Water Conditioning Unit Purification Columns (БК БКВ)
OH – Ocular Health Cardiac Operations
Ocular Health (OH) – Operator Assistance with the Experiment
BLR48 – Setup/Don Hardware and Start Video Recording
Complete the Dose Tracker Application – Subject
BLR48 – Electrode Placement (Operator)
CARDOX – Experiment Ops
Flushing Water conditioning unit purification columns (БК БКВ) – Start
LBNP Exercise (PRELIMINARY)
Handover of Russian Cargo Items to US crew for disposal via Cygnus
Hardware prepack for return and disposal on Soyuz 718
Russian Joint Research (RJR) – Microbiology Air Sampling (MAS) on the ISS
Cygnus Cargo Operations
USND2 – Hardware Deactivation
HABIT – Experiment Ops
JRNL – Journal Entry
Onboard Training (OBT) – Cygnus OBT-ROBoT RELEASE
СОЖ Maintenance
Crew Departure Prep
Cygnus Cargo Operations
Changeout of Dust Filter ПФ1-4 Cartridges in SM (ФГБ1ПГО_4_419_1 bag 431-7
CIR – Upper Rack Doors Open
CIR – Hardware Removal and Relocation
Hardware prepack for return and disposal on Soyuz 718
CIR – Upper Rack Doors Close
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
IMMUNO. Preparing Saliva-Immuno Kit for the experiment
Cygnus cargo conference
VEG-01 – Equipment Deactivation
Increment 45 Plaque Hanging
On MCC GO Flushing Water conditioning unit purification columns (БК БКВ) – Terminate

 
Completed Task List Items

Storytime – Sea Level

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal System Commanding
System Commanding associated with ISS Reboost

 
