02-12-2011February 12, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 02/12/11  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew rest day.    FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Before sleeptime, Dmitri will inspect the filters again, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Kelly, Kaleri, Skripochka, Kondratyev, Nespoli & Coleman completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  At ~8:00am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  FE-2 Skripochka terminated the recharge on the 2nd pack of 825M3 EVA batteries, then initiated the process on the 3rd battery unit, intended for the new Russian experiment Radioskaf.  After turning off the MPI Multifunction Indicator Panel in the MRM2 Poisk module, FE-1 Kaleri removed and replaced the TVU Terminal Computing Device.  MPI was then activated again.    [Because of an issue with the TVU in MRM2 and a mechanical problem with the “hatch closed” sensor, Soyuz TMA-18/22S undocking on 9/24/2010 had been by several hours.]  Continuing preparations for the EVA-28 spacewalk on 2/16, Kondratyev installed the BNP portable repress tank in the DC1 for making up cabin pressure after the DC1/airlock losses.  Dmitri & Oleg also equipped the BRTA radio telemetry units of their spacesuits with fresh batteries.  For their VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) program, Coleman & Nespoli had chosen a session with “3D Space”.  Nespoli set up, checked out and conducted his 2nd test run with the French/CNES neuroscientific research experiment “3D-Space” (SAP) as Subject #8, while free-floating, using the ESA MPPL (Multipurpose Laptop) with a prepared HDD (Hard Disk Drive), data storage on a PCMCIA memory card, and an electronic pen table connected to it.  Afterwards, Coleman, who took photographs of Paolo, also performed her 2nd 3D-Space (SAP) experiment session, as Subject #9.    [3D Space, which involves distance, writing and illusion exercises, is designed to test the hypothesis that altered visual perception affects motor control.  To do this, the subject is asked to reproduce shapes or text on an electronic pen tablet (Wacom Intuos3 A4) which allows researchers to record and analyze the reactions both on earth and in space.]  Paolo started the first day of his 2nd SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) session, which entails a series of diet intake loggings, body mass measurements and blood & urine samplings in two session blocks.      [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Paolo will have to eat special diet (Session 1: High salt diet which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level and Session 2: Low salt diet).  Solo Diet starts with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are being logged on sheets stowed in the PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer) Consumable Kit in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  SOLO, an ESA/German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device).  Blood samples are taken with the PCBA.    Background:  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 & MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]  Oleg Skripochka conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.]  Throughout the day, Cady Coleman took a number of Makita power tool batteries through the discharge/recharge reconditioning cycle.  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  At ~11:25am EST, Paolo Nespoli had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  Weekly /Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Six -- Week 12).  2D NANO Template (JAXA):    No report.  3D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     No report.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):     No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):     No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    “Cady, we will be scheduling another photo activity next week to capture both Scott and your old Bisphosphonates pill cards.  You will be using a card from a new kit for your next session due to the old one expiring.  Thanks for your participation.”  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for   Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   CB cleanup in the Saibo Rack was performed on 12/22.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:      No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):      As of 2/9, MSG has downloaded roughly 547 CCF data files containing approximately 228,000 processed images.  The original goal for CCF operations was to generate approximately 10,000 data points.  CCF anticipated operating in the automatic mode but they have decided that the automatic mode is either not possible or not trustworthy so they will confine their experiment operations to the manual mode.  CCF will concentrate on data points around the critical values in terms of flow rate and channel length and they are confident that they can accomplish their science goals with approximately 1,000 data points.  CCF is scheduled to be removed from the MSG Work Volume for the MSG yearly recertification in the 3/16-18 timeframe.  CCF is confident that they can accomplish the desired number of experiment data points by the middle of March if there are no new issues that cause them to lose operating time.  The CCF team is very grateful for the great opportunity to work in space on the International Space Station, and they are surprised and pleased about the speed of the signal transmission and the good quality of the downlink video.  CFS-A (Fungi-A):   Awaiting ULF5 launch.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:     No report.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CsPins (JAXA):      CsPins planned runs (#2-3,2-4,2-5) were moved to Inc 27 / 28 (before ULF7 Docked).  CubeLab:    “We had three data collection activities this week: 2/7, 2/9, 2/11.  The first two data collections were nominal and the PD was very happy with the files downlinked from station. The data collection activity today did not produce any photos.  There are two possible causes for this.  First, a reboot of the laptop while connected to the Cube Lab Frame caused the payload to initialize a new connection, deleting the existing files.  If this is the case, there is not a loss of science because all files are backed up on an external SD card within the payload.  The second possibility is that the payload was in a bad state and not taking photos.  We have performed a power cycle of the payload, and this should have reset it.  If this is the case, and the next data collection is nominal, the science can be recovered.  We will continue nominal data collection Monday, 2/14.”  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.  DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    This week, we have performed 3 solidifications at different speeds (1, 4 and 8 micron) . These solidifications have explored the effects of macroscopic curvature of the interface structures. 25000 images have been taken.  DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.   DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS, ESA):    Acquiring science data with DOSTEL-2 detector.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Hobbies):      No report.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Kids in Space):   No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO GREENHOUSE (ESA):   No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    No report. . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.  EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.  EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    This exp consist of  IVA and EVA tasks.  EVA task is planned on EVA1 (FD5). IVA task is FD6.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.  EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   This task is scheduled on 3/9 (fam) and 3/10 (execution).  ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    “Paolo, the data transfer on 2/3 had to be aborted after the 14th out of the 19 files was transferred because the transmission rate became very slow.  The root cause has not been identified yet.  We will be able to provide feedback as soon as all the files are downlinked and analyzed.”   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET-2 (JAXA):   No report.   FERULATE (JAXA):    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):     No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Hicari (JAXA):    Hicari planned run was moved to Inc 27 / 28.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):     RAIDS is collecting secondary science including nighttime atmospheric disk photometry, spectra and temperatures.  Extreme Ultra Violet airglow spectroscopy (daytime and nighttime) and optical contamination studies are also being performed.   HICO has taken 2561 images to date. The most recent HICO images taken include images of Monterey Bay and the northern part of the Bay of Bengal.    HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):    The sample is scheduled to return on ULF5 Flight.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     No report.  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     “Paolo- Thank you for your event with Villasanta, Italy via the volunteer ground station VK5ZAI in Australia.  It was successful with 19 answers.  More than 100 students and visitors present and more than 80 visitors on their webcast. Regional media also covered the event. This was your eleventh contact and the 17th for the crew this year.  Cady- Thank you for your event with students at Lake Silver Elementary in Orlando, Florida. You answered 14 questions during the pass via LU8YY in Argentina.  This was your 6th event and the 18th for the crew this year.  Cady- Thank you for your Norwegian contact also.  It went well, except for some noise on the signal in the beginning of the pass. 8 questions answered, mostly in Norwegian; audience +150; several connections via EchoLink and IRLP.”   IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni Exp (JAXA):    24th run was completed on 12/22.  Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Currently acquiring nominal science data in Kibo.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    No report.  MDCA/Flex:    “Scott: Thank you for your hard work replacing a CIR manifold bottle and closing and opening bottle valves to support the calibration of CIR's FOMA (Fuel/Oxidizer Management Assembly) on 2/8.  This calibration needs to be completed yearly to ensure that all the pressure transducers in the CIR are accurate. Also, we appreciate your efforts to replace the MDCA needles and fiber arm on 2/9.  Great job making up time in the schedule! We are going to re-evaluate the duration of these activities based on your suggestion.  Paolo: Thank you for your excellent work replacing the window in the CIR's combustion chamber. We really appreciated the video camera views you gave us of the window as well as the photos.  Both your efforts have allowed us to get back to performing science!  We're currently planning to calibrate the replaced hardware and perform test points on 2/14-15.”  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-2 (JAXA):    We are adding a sampling session during ULF5 predock or dock to acquire a new sample #1.  That sample will be returned by ULF5.  The sample collected in Oct will be returned by ULF6 or ULF7, because the sample collected in Oct has some science loss due to the flight slip, but not a complete loss.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally.   MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.  MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 3 (JAXA):    No report.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    “Thank you, Paolo and Cady, for completing your second and last session for NEUROSPAT.  The EEG set-up went so smooth.  The science team was very happy with the signals they saw on the ground, that data are downlinked and are under investigation with the science team.  Cady, thanks for all your help with this session. We found very nice pictures, the ground team is delighted with those photo modeling images.”  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:     No report.  PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report.  PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:     “Paolo, your 3rd ProK session was completed this week.  Your next session will be in Increment 27.”  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA):    No report.  RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Scott, Paolo and Cady, thank you for your continued participation in Reaction Self Test!  Also, thank you for the pictures/video of Scott. They will be very helpful for the Reaction Self Test team! ”  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report.  SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Scott, Paolo and Cady, thank you for your continued participation in Reaction Self Test!  Also, thank you Cady for the video. It looks great and will be very helpful for the Reaction Self Test team!  Scott:  Your next week of Sleep logging is scheduled to begin on Monday.  The data from this upcoming series of log-entries will be downlinked at the end of the month on Monday, 2/28.”  SMILES (JAXA):   Recooling mode #12.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    Out of Sun visibility window and kept in Idle mode as precaution to prevent the SolACES instrument efficiency decrease.  However, the root cause of the problem is still under investigation.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.  Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report.  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):     No report.  SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):    No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.   VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring science data with NorAIS receiver.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    No report.  VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    Through 2/9 the ground has received 14,936 of ISS CEO frames for review and cataloging.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following targets with a times corresponding to that of our daily CEO Target Request list:  West Cuba - several short-lens context views were received in two short sessions - we will continue to seek detailed views of this target area; Beijing, China at night - several best-ever views of this target were acquired; Managua, Nicaragua - several context views were acquired, but included more clouds than we anticipated; Dakar, Senegal - several high resolution, partial views were acquired - we will continue to request views that contain this target in a single frame; Asmara, Eritrea -under review; and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil - several high-resolution, partial views acquired - we will continue to request views that contain this target in a single frame.  Your striking visual of the man-made islands of Durrat Al Bahrain, Bahrain on the Persian Gulf was published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  This detailed, nicely composed image documents the wonder of large-scale human structures as viewed from space.  Nice shot!”  CEO targets uplinked for today were Mbabane, Swaziland (ISS had a mid-morning pass in fair weather to attempt to acquire this small capital city of about 95,000 in the tiny, land-locked nation of Swaziland.  Approach is from the NW with few visual cues to help locate this challenging target lying just left of track.  Trying for an overlapping mapping strip of the rugged area of Mbabane in an area of timber plantations and cuttings), N. Glaciers of S. Patagonian Ice Field (weather was expected to be fair enough for views of this target area as ISS approached from the WNW at midday.  The Southern Patagonian Ice Field is the larger of South America’s two major ice fields and situated just inland at the crest of the Andes Mountains with glaciers reaching the Pacific in extensive fjords.  Looking from near-nadir to acquire detailed views of the smaller, less-well photographed glaciers of the north end of the ice field.  CEO views are used to monitor changes in size and texture of these beautiful glaciers), and Grecian Cities at Night (there is very nice break in the cloudy winter weather pattern over southeastern Europe that will offer good nighttime views on this pass of:  the cities of Greece, the remainder of the Balkan Peninsula, and even western Turkey.  As ISS tracked northeastward over the Mediterranean Sea at this time, the crew was to begin looking anywhere from nadir to well-left of track for any brighter, major city targets they can acquire, especially Athens, Thessaloniki, and Istanbul over the next 2 minutes).  