
Burning and Suppression of Solids – Milliken (BASS-M):  Today, Kopra completed the sixth set of BASS-M operations, preparing and testing five different samples with ground assistance from the Principal Investigator.  The BASS-M investigation tests flame-retardant cotton fabrics to determine how well they resist burning in microgravity. Results benefit research on flame-retardant textiles that can be used on Earth and in space.
 
Microbiological Monitoring in the ISS-Kibo (Microbe) IV:  Peake collected samples in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) for the Microbe-IV investigation.  He then placed the Sampling Sheet into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and the Microbial Detection Sheet placed inside a Ziplock bag, which will then be attached to a rack for culture in the JEM cabin for 7 days before it is placed into the MELFI.  Results from this experiment are expected to help characterize the risk of microbial populations to crew members aboard the ISS.  Passive sampling and analysis of the samples on the ground will clarify the type and number of microbes in the JEM.  Particle count data gives the real time status of air purity and continuous monitoring since the Microbe-I experiments provides microbial information, and enables the prediction of future microbial populations in the JEM.
 
Marrow:  Peake collected his blood and breath samples after waking today for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Marrow investigation.  This investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on human bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
 
Circadian Rhythms:  Peake removed the Armband Monitor, Thermolab sensors, and belt that he has worn for 36 hours and downloaded the recorded data.  Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
 
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Max:  For his Return minus 30 day (R-30) Sprint VO2 Max session, Kelly attached Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes to himself, set up and donned Heart Rate Monitor hardware, performed Portable Pulmonary Function System calibrations, and then completed the VO2 protocol.  The Sprint VO2 investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers while reducing total exercise time during long-duration space missions
 
Radi-N Neutron Field Study (Radi-N):  Today Malenchenko handed over eight Radi-N detectors to Kopra, who then deployed them in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) for the Radi-N experiment. This is the final of six RADI-N dosimeter deploys for Increments 45 and 46.  The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
 
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR):  CIR team discovered an unexpected pressure drop from a 3.8 liter helium bottle installed in the rack. Further investigation revealed the total leak of helium was 485 psia which corresponds to approximately 0.047 pounds of helium at cabin pressure and temperature. POIC Safety determined the leaked helium poses no threat to CIR operations or crew safety even if the leak continues until bottle is fully depleted. The CIR team is assessing the root cause and forward plan. The CIR is a Facility class payload encompassing an International Standard Payload Rack (ISPR).
 
Airlock Cleanup:  Following this week’s Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003 Fan Pump Separator R&R, Kelly cleaned up the Airlock worksite by stowing tools and associated hardware. The faulty pump which was removed this week was then packed for return onboard Soyuz 44 next month.   Later, Kelly relocated EMU 3003 from the Aft EMU Don/Doff Assembly (EDDA) to the Fwd EDDA, then retrieved and installed EMU 3010 on the Aft EDDA.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday evening, Robotics Flight Controllers successfully stowed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on the Mobile Base System (MBS), walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) from the MBS power and data grapple fixture (PDGF)-1 to the Node2 PDGF.  Once the walk off was complete, they grappled Cygnus in preparation for it’s unberth and release on February 19th.
 
Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Status:   The decision has been made to suspend WPA process cycles and perform manual water operations until the WPA catalytic reactor replacement planned for February 23rd.  The WPA catalytic reactor has been suspected of leaking since November, and has shown signs of increased leakage since Monday.  Yesterday, the crew reported an “offgassing” smell coming from the rack that houses the WPA.
 
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HRF – Activation of Centrifuge and blood collection operator assistance
HRF Blood Draw
CORRECTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake
HRF – Centrifuge 1 Configuration
HRF – Sample Insertion into MELFI
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference
SPRINT – Hardware Setup
IMS Tagup
BASSM – Preparation Operations Part 1
HRF – Blood Sample Collection Closeout Ops
HRF Closeout Ops
Fine Motor Skills – Test
CRHYT – Hardware Removal
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops
Progress 429 (Aft) Transfers and IMS Ops (Final)
CCISS – data downlink
Life On The Station Photo and Video
On MCC GO Replacement of РТ-50-1М Current Regulator No.3 (А203)
SPRINT Experiment Ops
SKNB – Experiment Ops
On MCC GO Demating РТ-50-1М (A203) TLM Connectors from onboard cable network (БКС)
Replacement of РТ-50-1М Current Regulator No.3 (А203)
SPLANH. Blood Biochemistry Analysis Repeat
MICB – Setup Ops
MICB Sample Collection
SPLANH. Closeout Ops
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) – Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) – Full Fill
On MCC GO Mating Current Regulator РТ-50-1М (A203) TLM Connectors to БКС
AURORA Hardware Closeout
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Food Frequency Questionnaire
Replacement of РТ-50-1М Current Regulator No.3 (А203)
SPRINT – Equipment Stowage
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) – Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) – Full Fill
MICB SS – Sample Insertion into MELFI
Private Psychological Conference
FPS pre-pack for disposal
CORRECTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake
Monitoring Progress 431 (DC1) АСН-КП Exchange with Laptop during the test
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring
MATRYOSHKA-R. Gathering and Initialization of Bubble-Dosimeter Detectors
ALGOMETRIA. Experiment Ops
СОЖ Maintenance
Switching over SM KURS-P cables to MRM2 +Y port Antenna Feeder
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeters to USOS
RADIN – Handover of detectors to USOS for deployment
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter detector initialization and deployment for exposure. Tagup with specialists as necessary
RADIN – Dosimeter Deployment
BASSM – Experiment start
EMU FPS Post-R&R Tool Stowage
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops
Double Coldbag (DCB) – Stowage
MOTOCARD. Operator Assistance with the Experiment
BASSM – BASS Hardware Installation and Test
SHD – Weekly Questionnaire
BASSM – BASS Hardware Installation and Test
EMU backpack replacement
Life On The Station Photo and Video
BASSM – Experiment end
WRS Maintenance
Monitoring Progress 431 (DC1) АСН-КП Exchange with Laptop during the test
IMS Delta File Prep IMS and Stowage Conference
SPRINT – Closeout Ops
WRS Maintenance
VHF1 Comm Test via US Ground Sites (WAL, DRY, WHI) from SM
HRF – Urine Collection Hardware Setup
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
CORRECTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake
Monitoring Progress 431 (DC1) АСН-КП Exchange with Laptop during the test

 
Completed Task List Items

KTO and Seat Remove and Replace

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal System Commanding

 
