
Burning and Suppression of Solids – Milliken (BASS-M):  Today Kopra completed the fifth set of BASS-M operations, preparing and testing five different samples with ground assistance from the Principal Investigator.  The BASS-M investigation tests flame-retardant cotton fabrics to determine how well they resist burning in microgravity. Results benefit research on flame-retardant textiles that can be used on Earth and in space.
 
Circadian Rhythms:  Peake configured and donned the Armband Monitor and Thermolab sensors and belt for his Flight Day 30 Circadian Rhythm session.  He will wear the monitors for 36 hours and then doff and download the data on Friday.  Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
 
Sprint Ultrasound:  Kelly assisted Kopra in performing his Flight Day 60 thigh and calf ultrasound scans today.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of the long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003 Fan Pump Separator Remove and Replace (R&R):  As part of a two day activity, Kelly and Peake removed the failed FPS from EMU 3003 today and replaced it with a new pump.  Tomorrow, the crew will finalize the installation by performing pump priming and preparing the EMU for a return to service checkout.  The FPS being removed had failed to start up on December 19th during a Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garment (LCVG) fill activity.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

NEIROIMMUNITET. Saliva Test
Morning Inspection, Laptop RS1(2) Reboot
RSS 1, 2 Reboot
NEIROIMMUNITET. Closeout Ops
Calf Volume Measurement
Aurora Hardware Closeout
Stop discharging Orlan-MK 2nd Battery Pack 825М3 No.126499192 (b/c 00068691R, stow ФГБ1ПГО_2_221_1) and start discharging the 3rd Battery Pack No.126499193 (b/c 00068692R, ФГБ1ПГО_2_221_1)
Acoustic Dosimeter Operations and RS Crew Handover – Day 3
BASSM – Preparation Operations Part 1
Video Footage of Greetings
ESA Weekly Crew Conference
USND2 – Hardware Activation
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Relocation of Intravehicular Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter (IV-TEPC)
USOS Window Shutter Close
NAPOR-miniRSA. MRC and HRC S/W Upgrade
WRS Water Sample Analysis
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops
Preparation for Progress 431 (DC1) АСН-КП Test
Laptop FS1 S/W Upgrade
SPRINT – Hardware prep and installation
SPRINT – Operator Assistance with the Experiment
EMU Fan Pump Separator (FPS) R&R
VIRU. Battery Charge
SPLANH. Terminate EGEG Recording. Closeout Ops
SPLANH. Photography of the Experiment Ops
MATRYOSHKA-R Photos
Galvanic isolation test between power buses of thermal container ТБУ-В No.06 and its enclosure
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (start)
Study of veins in lower extremities
TOCA Data Recording
USND2 – Hardware Deactivation
EMU Fan Pump Separator (FPS) R&R
Separation of EDV (KOV) No. 1162 for Electron system.  For separation use EDV No.1199
EKAM-Node2 – Camera Lens Change
Water Transfer to EDV from Progress 431 (DC1) H2O Tank1 and N2O Tank1 Bladder Compression
BASS Soot Removal
СОЖ Maintenance
BASSM – Experiment start
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (end)
BASSM – BASS Hardware Installation and Test
BASSM – Experiment end
VIRU. Software Update
VIRU. Hardware Setup for Relaksatsiya Experiment
PAO hardware setup. Tagup with specialists / See OPTIMIS Viewer for Procedure
TV Conference with the Organizers of “108 minutes ”Music Festival (Ku + S-band)
VIRU. Hardware parameter adjustment for Relaksatsiya Experiment Tagup with specialists
VIRU. Earth Observation for Relaksatsiya Experiment
Sprint Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) Partial Setup
VIRU. Closeout Ops and Hardware Teardown after Relaksatsiya Experiment
Thermolab – Instrumentation Ops for Circadian Rhythms
VIRU. Fill out and Downlink VIRU Log Sheet
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
SPLANH. Diet Restrictions Reminder
On MCC GO Closeout Ops after Progress 431 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank1 Bladder Compression

 
Completed Task List Items

Sidekick Charging
Sidekick Laptop Deploy

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal System Commanding

 
