
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 Hatch Closure:  Today, Wilmore completed the final cargo loading for ATV-5.  Samokutyaev and Cristoforetti completed the final closeout activities, including removal of the fire extinguisher and ИПК-1М gas masks, verification that all cargo is secured, and taking closeout photos of the final configuration of the hatches.  They removed the Service Module (SM) quick release screw clamps and closed and latched the ATV and ISS hatches.  ATV-5 undock is scheduled for Saturday, February 14th at 7:38am CST. 
Aniso Tubule:  Virts removed the Aniso Tubule sample chamber and holder from the scanning stage of the fluorescence microscope and deactivated components of the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR).  Experimenters will examine growth modifications of Arabidopsis hypocotyls and the changing orientation of cortical microtubule under microgravity conditions in space. Scientists will further observe changes in dynamics of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins by observing Arabidopsis hypocotyls and microtubule-associated proteins with a fluorescence microscope.
BP Reg:  Wilmore viewed a video demonstrating placement of leg cuffs, finger cuffs, and performance of rebreathing and then reviewed procedures for his only on-orbit BP Reg session.  The crew configured hardware, set up a video camera and performed the Pulmonary Function System (PFS) rebreathing protocol with Continuous Blood Pressure Device (CBPD) operating. At the conclusion of the session, data was transferred and hardware deactivated and stowed. This investigation tests the effectiveness of an in-flight manipulation of arterial blood pressure (BP) as an indicator of post-flight response to a brief stand test, since space flight negatively impacts the regulation of BP on return to upright posture on earth. A Leg Cuff test induces a brief drop in BP following the release of a short obstruction of blood flow to the legs. The change in BP from pre-flight to in-flight will be used to predict those astronauts who might be susceptible to experience the greatest drop in BP in the post-flight stand test. A second objective of this investigation is to determine whether cardiac output calculated from the analysis of the finger blood pressure waveform provides an accurate estimate both pre-flight and in-flight by comparison with a rebreathing method.
Nanorack Cube Sat Deployer (NRCSD):  Virts prepared the Maintenance Work Area (MWA), secured the NRCSD to the work surface area and then modified the existing Quad Deployers to install Safety Latches.  Video will be recorded and still photos taken for downlink to ground teams.
Bone Densitometer:  On Thursday, the crew setup the Glove Bag and frame contained in the Wet Lab Kit. The hardware was then positioned on an EXPRESS Rack front. A test sample was retrieved from Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) cold stowage and allowed to thaw overnight.  Today, the crew performed a daily quality control check of displays, indicators and imagery set-up prior to operation of Bone Densitometer.  The thawed test sample was secured on the exam tray and placed in the exam box. The crew loaded the exam box into the Bone Densitometer and executed an image acquisition. The test subject was returned to cold stowage, the crew disconnected and powered down the Bone Densitometer.  Many of the conditions of spaceflight that adversely affect astronauts, such as the loss of bone density, can be studied effectively using mice flown in space. Approximately the size of a consumer microwave oven, the Bone Densitometer uses X-rays to measure the bone mineral density (and the lean and fat tissue) of mice living aboard the ISS. As a result, researchers hope to develop medical technology that will combat bone density loss in space and on Earth, helping millions of senior citizens who suffer from osteoporosis.
Node 2 Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Duct Removal:  As part of ongoing ISS reconfiguration activities, Virts removed the Node 2 Forward Port IMV ducting up to the inlet grill housing in preparation for International Docking Adapter (IDA) Control Panel 1 installation. He also covered the openings left from removing the ducts on the IMV Valve, IMV Inlet Grill, and Fire Partition.  The ISS Program plans to establish two docking ports on the US On-orbit Segment compatible with the International Docking System Standard (IDSS).  In the future, the docking adapters will be installed onto the existing Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)-2 and PMA3 interfaces.  Each adapter will permanently convert a passive Androgynous Peripheral Attachment System (APAS) docking interface into a passive IDSS interface.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday afternoon, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off the Node 2 Nadir Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) onto Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF3.  They then maneuvered the SSRMS into position and captured the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) PDGF.  Later in the evening, they unstowed the SPDM from the Lab PDGF and configured the SSRMS and SPDM for the start of the Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) P12B_C removal and replacement operations scheduled for February 15th and 16th. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Ultrasound 2 – Scanning
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
Recording Video Footage for Channel One / r/g 7893
MSPR – Hardware Deactivation
ANISO – Closeout Ops
Ultrasound 2 – Scanning & Data Export
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Nutritional Assessment (ESA)
BP REG – Experiment Ops
VIZIR Experiment Ops. Tagup with specialists. See Note 4 / r/g 7964
KOX2 Loop Health Monitoring. / r/g 7952
ND2 – IFM Node 2 Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Duct Removal
Reconnection of Laser Infrared Rendezvous Imaging Sensors (LIRIS) Cable
URAGAN. Observation and Photography using VSS / r/g 7968
T2 Engineering Conference
Preparation for ATV Hatch Closure (undocking prep) / r/g 7962
Ultrasound Power Down
CUBESAT – Crew preps the Maintenance Work Area Work Surface Area for payload use
MRM2 comm config to support the P/L Ops
Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Run. / r/g 7963
CUBESAT – Installation of Safety Latches on Quad Deployers
BP REG – Hardware Stowage
Video Footage for Channel One / r/g 7893
Connecting HDV Sony HVR-Z7E Camcorder and Running NASA MPEG-2 Viewer (to capture АО-ATV5 interface). (S-band)
Removal of Quick Release Screw Clamps from SM AO – ATV5 interface and Video
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
KULONOVSKYI KRISTALL. Hardware Teardown / r/g 7963
ATV-СУ Hatch Closure. Video of the interface
SM AO – ATV5 Interface TV Downlink (if necessary)
KULONOVSKYI KRISTALL. Copy and Downlink Data via РСПИ /  r/g 7963
ПрК-СУ Hatch Closure
Deactivation of HDV Sony HVR-Z7E camcorder and closing of NASA MPEG-2 Viewer application
ATV Hatch leak check
PAO Event
Food Frequency Questionnaire

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Nominal Commanding

