
58 Progress (58P) Launch and Dock:  58P successfully launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome today at 5:00am CST.  The spacecraft then proceeded with a nominal 4 orbit rendezvous with ISS and docked to the Service Module aft port at 10:57am CST. The Progress is delivering a total of 1449 kgs of cargo to the ISS and will remain docked until August 2015.
Dynamic Surf:  Wilmore removed the cover plate from the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) in Ryutai Rack, mated the Marangoni Deformation (MD) 10 gas hoses to the FPEF and performed a position check. The crew then reinstalled the cover plate.  This activity supports the JAXA Dynamic Surf experiments.   The Dynamic Surf investigation is part of a series of JAXA experiments that examine Marangoni convection, or flow, a process driven by the presence of surface tension gradient as produced by a temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface. Fluid convection observations of a silicone oil liquid bridge that is generated by heating the one disc higher than the other within the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF). By observing and understanding how such fluids move researchers can learn about how heat is transferred in microgravity, and ultimately drive the design and development of more efficient fluid flow based systems and devices.
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD):  Wilmore performed troubleshooting on the secondary latch of NRCSD launcher #3.  During secondary latch installation and check of secondary latch functionality last week, crew reported the latch on deployer #3 was contacting the door.  Steps were taken to remove the secondary latch, check for foreign object debris, correct and confirm there is no friction or resistance to move the secondary latch in either direction.  The latch was reinstalled and crew verified there was no contact between the latch and deployer door.  Close out photos were taken and downlinked.  After troubleshooting, the crew reviewed NRCSD procedures in support of NRCSD installation on the Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) planned for Wednesday, 18 February.
Plant Rotation:   Virts removed Plant Rotation Run #1 samples from Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Incubator Unit (IU) 1G Centrifuge and took close out photos.  The crew then gathered items and began sample preparation, using a syringe to inject water into two Plant Rotation chambers, inserted them into two Plant Experiment Units (PEUs) and attached canisters to the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) for a six day incubation.  Many species of climbing plants grow upward in a spiraling shape, a process known as circumnutation. Plant organs also grow in a spiraling, helical shape. This spiraling process can take many forms, including very tight loops and broad curves. Plant Rotation verifies the hypothesis that this type of plant growth requires gravity. Scientists on the ground will study images of rice and morning glory plants growing in microgravity and simulated gravity conditions on the ISS.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:   Wilmore, Virt, and Cristoforetti conducted a review of translation paths utilizing Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) software loads for the upcoming EVAs.  They also studied associated procedures and conducted a conference with ground specialists to answer any questions. The EVA to install International Docking Assembly (IDA) cables is scheduled for this Friday, February 20th.  The ISS Program plans to establish two docking ports on the US On-orbit Segment compatible with the International Docking System Standard (IDSS).  In the future, the docking adapters will be installed onto the existing Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)-2 and PMA3 interfaces.  Each adapter will permanently convert a passive Androgynous Peripheral Attachment System (APAS) docking interface into a passive IDSS interface.  
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fault:  Today, UPA experienced a high pressure transient fault.  Flight Controllers downlinked supplementary telemetry then restarted the system.  However, the system faulted out again soon after with the same anomalous signature.  The systems remains in standby mode while ground teams develop a forward plan.  The crew will be asked to reconfigure the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) to internal tank (EDV) tomorrow morning.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


HRF Saliva & Urine Sample Collection & MELFI Insertion
SPLANH. Experiment Ops
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (start)
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) No.10 (00063568R, ФГБ1ПГО_1_112) for Elektron or EDV-SV
BIOME – Survey Completion
D2XS Battery Charge
RGN-REC TK- Transfer and Replacement
OTKLIK. Hardware Check
PRT-1G – Disconnecting PEU (2) from CBEF 1G.
Plant Rotation (PRT) – Closeout Ops & Sample Gathering
ISS HAM Radio Deactivation
OCT Exam
СКПФ1, СКПФ2 Dust Filter Replacement and MRM1 Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger (ГЖТ) Cleaning (ФГБ1ПГО_4_419_1, Zone 28Б enclosure.
OCT Exams
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
HRF – Equipment stowage after sample collection
Cleaning ВД1 and ВД2 Air Ducts in MRM2
Closing USOS Window Shutters
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
XF305 – Camcorder Setup
MD10 – Connecting gas hoses & check
SPLANH. Blood Biochemistry Analysis Repeat
NAPOR-miniRSA. Installation of Plate 17КС.49Ю9010А-0 on Onboard Memory Device БЗУ-М, Installation and connection of PCAN-USB Adapters
OCT Equipment Stowage
SPLANH. Closeout Ops. / r/g 8011
Counter Measure System (CMS) Harmful Contaminant Measurements in SM
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Troubleshooting CUBESAT Secondary Latch
Analysis of SM Atmosphere for Freon Using Freon Leak Analyzer/Detector (ФИТ)
NAPOR-miniRSA. Photography
D2XS Battery Charge
CubeSat Deployer Removal Procedure Review
Plant Rotation (PRT) – Sample Setup
ISS RS Atmosphere Analysis Using АОК ГАНК-4М
MATRYOSHKA-R. Monitoring Lulin-5 readings
24-hour ECG  Holter Monitoring (termination)
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Download data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (end) and start archiving
24-hour BP Monitoring (start)
Glisser-M Video Complex Battery Charge – start. (as necessary)
RGN REC-TNK – Removal of depress hose for nominal operations
US EVA Procedure Conference
US EVA Procedure Review
Closure of outer covers on SM windows 6,8,9,12,13 and 14
FGB Dust Collector ПС1, ПС2 Filter Replacement
BIOPLENKA (BIOFILM). Installation of Cryogem-03 Thermostat
Activation/Deactivation of MPEG2 Multicast TV Data Monitoring.
PROBOY. Activation of Auto Recorder
Glisser-M Battery Charge, swap remaining 2 batteries
DOUG Review
Video Footage for Channel One
ТКГ 425 Docking to SM Aft
Comm Configuration for Nominal Ops after Docking
Activation of MPEG2 Multicast TV Monitoring & Recording Mode / r/g 7148 steps 4.1- 4.5
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Glisser-M Battery Charge – end.  (as necessary)
Closing Laptop Applications and Downlink of MPEG2 Multicast via OCA
PROBOY. Deactivation of Auto Recorder [АР]
Printing EMU Cuff Checklist
PAO Event
Fundoscope Setup
CASKAD. Activation of TBU No.4 at +4°С
URISYS Hardware Setup / МО Book 2 11, 11.1 pp. 11-1 through 11-2 (1,2)
Fundoscope Setup & Eye Exam
Gathering camcorder pressurized container cases, internal batteries. (as necessary)
Handover of Glisser-M to USOS
Fundoscope Setup
ISS HAM – HAM Radio Power up
Fundoscope, Eye Exam
Fundoscope Teardown and Stowage after the Test

Completed Task List Items

None 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Commanding associated with 58P rendezvous and docking

