
Transition to (X2) R15 Software:  As part of the R15 software transition, the Starboard 1 (S1) and Port 1 (P1) Multiplexer/Demultiplexers (MDMs) were transitioned to updated software S1P1 R6. Updates to the S1 and P1 MDMs include: 

Longeron Fault Detection Isolation & Recovery (FDIR) updates to protect for Beta Gimbal Assembly (BGA) stall conditions
Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint (TRRJ) shutdown sequence improvements
TRRJ Toothcrash Recovery update

This completed the X2R15 software load.
Robonaut Troubleshooting: Today the crew continued with the debugging of the Robonaut Compact Peripheral Component Interconnect (CPCI) Power Supply fault. These activities built upon the troubleshooting performed on February 1 and other previous operations to remove cables, computer cards and investigate the intermittent fault the Robonaut is currently experiencing. Removal of all cards and an inspection of the CPCI chassis, where the computer cards were previously located, may also be required. Robonaut is a humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, work in high risk environments, and respond safely to unexpected obstacles. Robonaut is comprised of a torso with two arms and a head, and two legs with end effectors that enable the robot to translate inside the ISS by interfacing with handrails and seat track. Robonaut is currently operated inside the ISS; in the future, it will perform tasks both inside and outside the ISS. The Robonaut Teleoperations System enables Robonaut to mimic the motions of a crewmember wearing specialized gloves, a vest and a visor providing a three-dimensional view through Robonaut’s eyes.
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) Logistics Installation: The crew continued to install the readers and antennas today, in the Node 2 module.  Due to cable routing issues, the crew was unable to fully mate the power cables to all of the deployed equipment.  Ground teams are looking into potential work-arounds and corrective actions.  Cabling issues identified yesterday were corrected and the deployed antennas and readers in the Lab and Node 1 are all nominal. The RFID Logistics experiment aims to utilize RFID enabled tags on hardware throughout the ISS, and assist in the tracking of the hardware as it is moved around the station. 
Google Street View: After having a conference with ground support teams, the crew configured on-board digital cameras with a fisheye lens to capture 360 degree images of the Cupola, Node 3, and PMM modules.  Additional ISS modules will be mapped to provide an imaged topology to be used for educational community outreach.

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Overnight, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2). Then the SSRMS was walked off MBS PDGF1 onto Node2 PDGF. Finally, SSRMS was maneuvered to the Offset Grapple Park position for the SpX-10 Crew Offset grapple practice. MSS performance today was nominal.
SpaceX-10 (SpX-10) On-Board Training (OBT) Offset Grapple Practice: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Serving System (MSS) and performed a SpX-10 Offset Grapple practice session. Ground Controllers also performed the MSS Pre-Launch Checkouts. The USOS crew practiced maneuvering the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into the grapple envelope of the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF). After the Offset Grapples Practice session, the crew participated in a conference with ground specialists. Robotics ground controllers then maneuvered the SSRMS to the Rendezvous Park Position in preparation for SpX-10 capture on February 20th.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Nikon still camera sync with station time
Audit of Crew Onboard Support Kit (КСПЭ) Equipment
Robonaut Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Robonaut Lab Camcorder Video Setup
Robonaut CPCI Fault Backpanel
UDOD. Experiment Ops with DYKNANIYE-1 and SPRUT-2 Sets
ARED Crank Handle Cap Screw Torque
Google Street View Procedure Review
Google Street View Crew Conference
Google Street View Node 3 Camcorder Video Setup
HRF Generic Urine Collection
Cleaning FGB ЦВ1 Circulation Fan Screens
Google Street View Cupola Photo Operations
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
HRF Generic Urine Collection Stow
Vacuum cleaning of ВТ7 screens on ГЖТ4 behind FGB panel 108
Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter (TEPC) Reorientation
HRF Ultrasound Battery Removal
Dose Tracker Data Entry Subject
Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Stow Operation
Dose Tracker Data Entry Subject
Photo of the Crisstal experiment and Trash
МО-21. Data Analysis (Sample1)
Robonaut CPCI Fault Backpanel
ESA Weekly crew conference
Audit of Crew Onboard Support Kit (КСПЭ) Equipment
МО-3. Physical Fitness Evaluation (on the treadmill)
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Offset Grapple
Onboard Training (OBT) SSRMS Debrief Conference
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Attached Phase Operations Review
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
MSG MLC Software Load
Fundoscope Prep
Multi Omics Item Gathering
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Fundoscope Eye Exam
Fundoscope Tear Down and Stow
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill 

Completed Task List Items

Radio Frequency Identification Logistics Install
Manufacturing Device Print Removal, Clean and Stow
SPHERES USB Stow
Veggie 03 Pillow Watering
Exploration New Earth – Life Support
Exploration New Earth – Stowage
JPM1OA5 Lamp Housing Assembly (LHA) Replacement
LAB1OP5 SSLA Install 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

X2R15 Software transition – PL and LA-1 MDMs

