
Burning and Suppression of Solids – Milliken (BASS-M):  Today Kopra completed the final session of BASS-M operations, preparing and testing different samples with ground assistance from the Principal Investigator.  The BASS-M investigation tests flame-retardant cotton fabrics to determine how well they resist burning in microgravity. Results benefit research on flame-retardant textiles that can be used on Earth and in space.
 
Microbiome:  For his Return Minus 14 day Microbiome session, Kelly collected a fecal sample and completed a questionnaire.  Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time)
 
Ocular Health:  In support of their ongoing Flight Day 60 Ocular Health investigation, Kopra and Peake completed Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) testing and Kelly, acting as the Chief Medical Officer (CMO), performed a fundoscopy activity of Kopra and Peake.  OCT is used to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer, and the fundoscope is used to obtain images of the retinal surface.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Education Payloads Operations (EPO) – AstroPi:  Peake set up the European Space Agency (ESA) AstroPi IR hardware in the Node 2 nadir hatch window.  The payload then autonomously run a pre-defined sequence of program files.  AstroPi is composed of RaspberryPi B+, Sense HAT (Hardware Attached on Top) and a camera module, contained within a protective aluminum case.  Raspberry Pi is a credit-card sized computer that enables students to explore computing and learn how to program. Two AstroPi are on board: AstroPi Vis, with visible light camera, and AstroPi IR, with an infrared camera.  Both AstroPi will run programs written by the winners of a student competition and collect data from sensors (i.e., inertial movement, barometric pressure, relative humidity and temperature). The data will be shared with schools.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003 and EMU 3010 Loop Scrubs:  Following yesterday’s successful EMU 3003 Return To Service (RTS) activities, Kelly performed cooling loop maintenance on the suit, as well as on EMU 3010. This included ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) of EMU and Airlock cooling water loops. These activities were followed by a dry out of the EMU fan module and vent loop.
 
Correction for Daily Summary Report on Monday, 02/15/16:
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Stowage Frame:  The JEM Stowage Frame Installation was not performed yesterday as stated in the Daily Summary Report.  The activity will be rescheduled for another day in the near future.   Once fully installed, the frame will increase JEM stowage capability by 12 Cargo Transfer Bag Equivalents (CTBE).
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Ocular Health (OH) OCT Setup
Monitoring Anti-Virus Scanning Results on Auxiliary Computer System ([ВКС]) Laptops and Report
ARED – Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
Conference of Search and Rescue Team (ГПСК) Specialists with Crew To Return on Soyuz 718
Ocular Health (OH) – OCT Exam – Operator
MORZE. Psychophysiological Evaluation: Cattell Test
BIOME – Questionnaire
Condensate ([КАВ]) Sampling from [СРВ-К2М] Upstream Gas-Liquid Mixture Filter (ФГС) into Drink Bags
Replace the insert-trap. Install #20 item 1 (00068077R, СМ1РО_2_231А_1, bag 359-16 (00043849R)). Removed insert-trap is for disposal
ISS Crew Departure Preparation
BASSM – Preparation Part 1
MRF Purge
DAN. Experiment Ops
Ocular Health (OH) – OCT Exam
METERON Laptop Power On
Health Maintenance System (HMS) On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
СОЖ Maintenance
EDV-SV #1192 Fill in (00065120R, ФГБ1ПГО_1_107) and EDV-KOV #1106
EDV-SV #1192 Separation into #1199 (00065916R, ФГБ1ПГО_1_109)
Soyuz 718 Landing Site Observation and Photography
MORZE. Psychophysiological  Evaluation: Strelau Test
BASSM Experiment Start
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance
Monitoring Progress 431 (DC1) АСН-КП Exchange with Laptop during the Test
DAN. Experiment Ops
MORZE. Closeout Ops
Monitoring TV Signal during Test with Progress 431 Klyost-M TV System Activation in PCE (МБРЛ) Mode during the Joint Flight Stage
EPO – Hardware Setup in Node 2
BASSM – BASS Hardware Setup and Tests
Synchronization of RS Still Cameras with Station Time
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance
CSA PAO Placeholder
BASSM Experiment End
Condensate ([КАВ]) Sampling Upstream [СРВ-К2М] БКО – Setup, Sampler Assembly
24-hour ECG Monitoring
HABIT – Conference
Soyuz 718 Pre-Pack Ops
24-hour ECG Monitoring
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Transfer of water to the water storage tank via the MRF (end)
WRS. Waste Water Tank Drain (Start)
URAGAN. Photo Spectral System Science Equipment ([НА] ФСС) Recovery
Condensate ([КАВ]) Sampling Upstream [СРВ-К2М] БКО – Sampler Changeout
Soyuz 718 Pre-Pack Ops
HRF – Disposal of Non-Operational Hardware
BIOME – Sampling Setup
WRS – Waste Water Tank Drain (End)
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance – EMU Reconfig
MAMS – Screen Cleaning
Ocular Health (OH) Fundoscope Setup
EVA Extravehicluar Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Dryout
ECCO – Small Cartridge Insertion into MELFI
Ocular Health (OH) Fundoscope Prep
IMS Delta File Prep
Ocular Health (OH) Fundoscope Exam
Ocular Heath (OH) CMO – Fundoscope
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfiguration
Ocular Health (OH) Fundoscope Stow
Condensate ([КАВ]) Sampling Upstream [СРВ-К2М] БКО – Sampler Removal, Teardown

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal System Commanding

 
