
Payloads:
BioSentinel: A moisture check was performed inside the BioSentinel facility in the area around BioSentinel and its mounting plate. BioSentinel ISS Control Experiment measures the effects of radiation and microgravity on Saccharomyces cerevisiae, or budding yeast. This model biological organism, used for many years in academic research, industry, and biotechnology, has biology very similar to humans and has flown in space before. Scientists plan to compare the effects of the space station environment on this yeast to effects from a deep space mission.
EarthKAM (Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools): As of the last report, a total of 121 schools representing 12,151 students and 27 countries have signed up to request images, including one Russian school representing 50 students. 25,308 image requests have been submitted by student teams, 2,011 images have been downlinked, and 247 images have been posted to the web. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted onboard the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges, and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
EXPRESS Rack (ER) 11B: Following the successful troubleshooting and recovery of ER11B last week, the crew disconnected USB Serial Port Adapter and RS232 cable connections between ER11B and the ER6 laptop. EXPRESS Racks are multipurpose payload rack systems that store and support research hardware aboard the ISS. The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space. ER11B is one of 3 basic EXPRESS racks; basic EXPRESS Racks have been simplified to include only the most commonly required resources and feature more common connectors such as a standard ethernet cable.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-20 (J-SSOD-20): Following the successful deployment of the satellites 2 weeks ago, the empty J-JSSOD-20 launcher hardware was removed from the JEM airlock slide table and stowed. The J-SSOD provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab-1 (SABL-1) CO2: A spent CO2 Incubator Controller was swapped for a fresh CO2 Incubator Controller. This is performed periodically on an as-needed basis. SABL supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical, and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28V D/C and 5V D/C power supplies for investigation use.
Standard Measures: Standard Measures post-sleep questionnaires were filled out using the Data Collection Tool (DCT) on an available Station Support Computer (SSC). The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes and support future research on planetary missions.
Systems:
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew removed and replaced the Pre-Treat Tank as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Treadmill 2 (T2) Rack: The crew refashioned a previous repair of the T2 Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Return Line. The original repair, which had increased the outer diameter of the T2 MTL Return Line, was abraded by nearby T2 components. After removing the damaged section, the crew installed a new repair using a combination of tape and Teflon to provide abrasion resistance while reducing its outer diameter. Potential abrasion points on T2 were also covered to reduce future damage. In addition to this repair, the crew used the opportunity associated with a rotated rack to remove and replace the T2 isolation frame, an activity that was deferred due to time constraints during the T2 Data Avionics Unit (DAU) Remove and Replace (R&R) in 2020. They also conducted a Snubber Cup Liner R&R on three of four corner snubber cups; these three were identified as requiring replacement during a recent crew inspection. After completing today’s T2 maintenance and configuring it for overnight stowage, the crew will rotate the rack back to its nominal position tomorrow and conduct un-crewed and crewed Activation and Checkouts (ACOs) to determine if T2 is ready for operational use. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) Scan: Today, the crew used the ultrasound device to perform a Venous Thromboembolism scan. This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for bilateral imaging of the internal jugular, entire subclavian-axillary axis, and lower extremity deep veins. Although VTE scans use the same hardware used for eye exams, VTE scans utilize a different frequency. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew continued its preparation for the two EVAs in March. For today’s preparations, the crew started by degassing two EVA Contingency Water Container-Iodinated (CWC-I) bags. Next, they removed two EVA Batteries from the Battery Stowage Compartment for use in Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3009 and EMU 3013. With the batteries installed in the two EMUs, the crew then performed a feedwater tank half dump and fill on both EMUs to add iodinated water from the degassed CWC-I bags to satisfy EMU maintenance requirements for on-orbit stowage. Finally, to wrap up the preparations, they restowed the batteries and reconfigured the EMUs on the EMU Don-Doff Assemblies (EDDAs) for upcoming activities.
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Checkout: Today, the ground performed a bilateral checkout of the C2V2 system in preparation for the upcoming Cygnus (NG-17) mission. Mission Control Center – Houston (MCC-H) and Mission Control Center – Dulles (MCC-D) completed the sequence of events required in order to complete telemetry and command checkouts on both C2V2 strings. The C2V2 system utilizes both an S-Band based Radio Frequency (RF) system and hardline connections to visiting vehicles such that secure, reliable communications will be available for all phases of rendezvous, docking, and mated operations. Successful checkout of the C2V2 system is a Launch Commit Criteria (LCC) requirement for NG-17 receiving a ‘Go’ for launch. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Cygnus C2V2 Checkout
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Survey of Crew Dragon
CWC-Iodine Transfer

