
Payloads
ASTRORAD Vest: In a continuation of the Astrorad series of activities, the crew donned and doffed the payload hardware and then answered a survey.  The AstroRad vest is a personal protective equipment (PPE) device which functions as a radiation shield for astronauts. The AstroRad shields astronauts from space-borne ionizing radiation in an efficient way, provides operational simplification, and allows for the use of recycled material on-board the vehicle. The concept behind the AstroRad evolved from a commercially available device, the 360 Gamma shield, made by StemRad Ltd., which is an effective wearable shield for first responders to radiation incidents on the Earth.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR/LMM)/Light Microscopy Module/ACE-T12: The crew removed the processed ACE-TR (ellipsoid) module and installed a new ACE-T12 module. Advanced Colloids Experiment-Nanoparticle Haloing (ACE-T-12) involves design and assembly of complex three-dimensional (3D) structures from colloids, or particles of different sizes suspended in a fluid. It employs a recently discovered technique, Nanoparticle Haloing (NPH), which uses highly charged nanoparticles to stabilize much larger, non-charged particles. Allowing these structures to form in microgravity provides insight into the relationship between shape, surface charge, and concentration of particles and particle interactions.
GRIP: The crew set up the hardware and performed the activities associated with the ‘seated science 2’ (SCI-2) session. In this session, the crew is in an upright seated posture and performs the tasks: friction, discrete (with eyes open/closed) and collisions as guided by the GRIP software. The GRIP experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
HRF Veg Questionnaire: The crewmembers completed the HRF Veg Questionnaires. Crew members take surveys to evaluate their moods and assess any psychological benefits from interacting with plants in the spaceflight environment. Pick-and-eat Salad-crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System is a hybrid experiment with plant research, as well as human organoleptic and behavioral research.
Plant Water Management (PWM): The crew set up the appropriate hardware and performed part 1 of the hydroponics series of experiment operations. This will attempt to demonstrate the first stable microgravity hydroponic watering method ever using a unique, open capillary watering channel and a simulated plant. The PWM investigation demonstrates passive measures for controlling fluid delivery and uptake in plant growth systems. Reduced gravity creates challenges in providing adequate fluid and nutrition for plant growth. This investigation examines using other physical properties such as surface tension, wetting and system geometry to replace the role of gravity.
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (SCEM): In a continuation of the activities to set up the SCEM/FLARE hardware, the crew manipulated several gas valves.  Fundamental Research on International Standard of Fire Safety in Space – Base for Safety of Future Manned Missions (FLARE), a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) investigation, explores the flammability of materials in microgravity. Various solid fuels are burned under different conditions and observed inside a flow tunnel. Microgravity significantly affects combustion phenomena and results are expected to contribute to the improvement of fire safety in space.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA): The crew performed the steps necessary to remove the processed science ampoule and install a new one. The objective of the SUBSA investigation is to advance understanding of the processes involved in semiconductor crystal growth. It offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C. Samples are contained in transparent quartz or ceramic ampoules with high definition video imaging available in real-time along with remote commanding of thermal control parameters.  The SUBSA hardware has supported several different investigations over the years.  SUBSA is currently supporting Indium Iodide crystal growth samples and Aluminum samples.
Systems
NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL) Final Vestibule Outfitting: The crew performed activities to configure the Node 3 Port vestibule for final NRAL vestibule outfitting. These activities included installing VBA covers, installing NRAL IP Camera covers, installing IMV ducts and NRAL kickplates, and re-installing the CPAs.
Japanese Pressurized Module (JPM) Gas Trap Manual Valves Reconfiguration: The crew set the Thermal Control Assembly Low Temperature Loop (TCA L) Gas Trap Manual Valves for Gas Trap operations.  They also activated the heater for Gas Trap.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Fluid System Servicer (FSS) JPM Refill: The crew used the FSS to add ITCS coolant to the JPM Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) accumulator. Once the refill was completed, they drained and stowed the FSS and associated jumpers.
Completed Task List Activities:

CMS CEVIS Time update
T2 Extender Strap Removal
WHC KTO Replace

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Columbus Smoke Detector ABIT synchronization
PRO CIR Activation Commanding
FSS Refill Support [ABORTED]
Plant Water Management Hydroponics Operations

