
Payloads
ISAAC (Integrated System for Autonomous and Adaptive Caretaking): The crew performed the Astrobee free flyer setup and installed the RFID Recon Reader onto the flyer and performed checkout steps to verify the ISAAC software. The ISAAC project demonstrates using autonomous robots in human exploration vehicles to track vehicle health, transfer and unpack cargo, and respond to critical faults such as leaks and fires. ISAAC uses the space station’s Astrobee and Robonaut robots for the demonstration. This technology could be used on vehicles and habitats on future exploration missions to the Moon and Mars to maintain vehicles while astronauts are away for extended periods.
AstroRad Vest: A crewmember donned the AstroRad vest to verify fitting and completed a survey. The AstroRad vest is a personal protective equipment (PPE) device which functions as a radiation shield for astronauts. The AstroRad shields astronauts from space-borne ionizing radiation in an efficient way, provides operational simplification, and allows for the use of recycled material on-board the vehicle. The concept behind the AstroRad evolved from a commercially available device, the 360 Gamma shield, which is an effective wearable shield for first responders to radiation incidents on the Earth.
Micro-16: Crewmembers placed newly arrived NG-15 Micro-16 samples into cold stowage and performed the SABL microscope hardware setup. Loss of muscle mass and strength present a major challenge for astronauts on future long space voyages. Determining Muscle Strength in Space-flown Caenorhabditis elegans (Micro-16) uses this tiny worm to test whether decreased expression of muscle proteins is associated with decreased strength. The research team developed a new device to measure muscle strength in multiple generations of space-reared C. elegans worms and compare that strength to postflight muscle gene expression analyses.
TangoLab-1: Crew installed the TangoLab S/N 001 Facility into ER6 locker 5 and connected power and data cables. The crew then connected power and data cables to TangoLab facility, and powered it on. Crew took photos of the front of TangoLab S/N 001. Space Tango MultiLab Locker (TangoLab-1) is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing aboard ISS.
Systems
ПрК Fracture #1 Investigation: The crew completed several activities to characterize the known crack at site #1 in the hull of the ПрК module. The crew removed the flexible patch, performed a visual inspection with magnifying glasses, and confirmed fracture #1 was leaking using plastic film. The crew then collected data of fracture #1 using the Array Ultrasonic Leak Detector (AULD), Scalar microscope, and Eddy Current Device. Next, the crew marked the fracture edges for future stop drilling, created a replica of the fracture, and then sealed fracture #1 with the flexible patch. The crew will continue to inspect other suspect locations in the ПрК throughout the week.
Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMU) Loop Scrub and Iodination: The crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity on units 3009 and 3015 in preparation for the upcoming IROSA Prep EVA. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Rechargeable Extravehicular Battery Assembly (REBA) Hardware Checkout: In support of the upcoming IROSA Prep EVA, the crew installed freshly charged REBAs and perform a series of checkouts on EMU 3015 to ensure optimum performance.  
EMU Water Recharge and Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garment (LCVG) Water Fill: The crew performed water recharges on EMUs 3009 and 3015. The recharges ensure there is a full supply of fresh cooling water to each EMU suit. Additionally, the crew filled LVCGs with water from EMU water tanks.
Completed Task List Activities:

EVA Tool Configuration

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

X2R19 Software Transition Commanding
EMU Loop Scrub Support
EMU Water Recharge and LCVG Water Fill Support

