
The ISS Experience: Today a crewmember performed the ISS Experience camera setup in the Node-3 to capture a recording session of nominal crew activities. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the space station. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved.  The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic VR (Virtual Reality) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Materials Science Research Rack-1 (MSRR-1): Today a crewmember performed troubleshooting steps for the MSRR facility in order to verify connectivity between the facility and the Master Controller. The MSRR-1 is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. MSRR-1 can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules (EMs). Many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
JAXA Mouse Mission: A crewmember performed a configuration change for the upcoming SpaceX-17 mission. This involved installing new ammonia sensors and the Micro-G interface units and setting the connections to allow the ground to perform checkouts. The purpose of this mission is to analyze any alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term space environment.
Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMU) 3006 Loop Scrub, and Iodination: Following this week’s Fan Pump Separator replacement, the crew performed EMU 3006 water loop scrub and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pump Separator Replacement:  Today the crew reported that the Check Pump Separator indicator light could no longer be cleared using troubleshooting procedures. Ground specialists declared the hardware failed and the crew completed the replacement using an on-board spare.  The Pump Separator and WHC System is now performing nominally.
Robotic Operations:  Yesterday afternoon, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm2 as required to un-stow the Robot Micro Conical Tool #2 (RMCT2) from the SPDM Tool Holder Assembly (THA). Then they maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and SPDM to the start position for the Material on ISS Experiment (MISSE) troubleshooting activities scheduled later today.
Completed Task List Activities:

WHC Pump Separator Replacement
WHC KTO Replacement

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


EMU Loop Scrub Support

Look Ahead:  
Friday, 02/22 (GMT 053):
Payloads:


LMM Biophysics-5/2 Assessment(NASA)
CIR O2 Bottle Change out (NASA)

Systems:

SpX-Demo 1 OBT procedure review and CBT
JEM RHX Hose Insulator Installation

Saturday, 02/23 (GMT 054): (Crew Off Duty)
Payloads:


None

Systems:

None

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Current converter fan (ВПТ) screen cleaning
ISS Experience Solid State Drive Change out
Preventive Maintenance of SM Ventilation Subsystem. Group А
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Configuration Change for Mouse Mission
Mouse Habitat Unit Interface Unit Ammonia Sensor Exchange
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub Initiation
Mouse Habitat Unit Interface Unit Installation
Lighting Effects Light Meter Setup
Lighting Effects Visual Performance Tests Light Setting
Rotate MSRR-1 (LAB1O3) Down
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Lighting Effects Light Meter Ambient Readings
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Iodination
Lighting Effects Light Meter Stow
ISS Experience Node 3 Setup
Material Science Research Rack EEPROM Integrity Check Part 1
[ОКР-1] fire extinguisher replacement in SM (1), DC1, and MRM2
COSMOCARD. Photography of Blood Pressure Monitor ИАД-2010 Components
MSRR-1 (LAB1O3) Umbilical Mate
SM Air Sampling for CO using ИПД Samplers
Collecting SM and FGB Air Samples Using АК-1М Sampler
VIZIR. Experiment Ops using СКПФУ P/L. Tagup with specialists
ISS Experience Hardware Relocate
Material Science Research Rack (MSRR-1) Accumulator Disconnect
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfiguration
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Material Science Research Rack EEPROM Integrity Check Part 2
Flight Director/ISS CREW CONFERENCE
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Initiation
ISS Experience Hardware Stow
Program Management/ISS Crew Conference

 