
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #71 – ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep: Today, EV1 Kate Rubins and EV2 Victor Glover performed a 7 hour 4 minute EVA and completed the following tasks in support of the IROSA Prep EVA:

Build the 2B Upper Bracket
Install the 2B Center Pad to Mast Canister
Install the 2B Left Struts
Install 2B Right Struts, MLIs, and Clamps
Build the 4B Upper Bracket

The EV Crew was unable to fully tighten the bolts on the 2B structure during the EVA. Ground teams determined that the 2B structure did not require a tie down, but the site will need to be revisited during a following EVA to complete the bolt tightening. Due to the overrun of the 2B installation operations, the installation of the 4B Center Pad to Mast Canister and the 4B Right Lower Strut were not completed and will need to be completed during a following EVA.
Payloads
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Fluids and Combustion Facility: The crew set the CIR Valve Timers on the front of the Optics Bench. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Micro-16: The crew performed Micro-16 sample loading and video imaging using the BioServe Microscope. Loss of muscle mass and strength present a major challenge for astronauts on future long space voyages. Determining Muscle Strength in Space-flown Caenorhabditis elegans (Micro-16) uses this tiny worm to test whether decreased expression of muscle proteins is associated with decreased strength. The research team developed a new device to measure muscle strength in multiple generations of space-reared C. elegans worms and compare that strength to postflight muscle gene expression analyses.
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PBRE): The crew inspected the MSG Work Volume for any water release from the PBRE Vent Hose. The PBRE studies the behavior of gases and liquids when they flow simultaneously through a column filled with fixed porous media. The porous media or “packing” can be made of different shapes and materials and are used widely in chemical engineering as a means to enhance the contact between two immiscible fluid phases (e.g., liquid-gas, water-oil, etc.). Packed columns can serve as reactors, scrubbers, strippers, etc. in systems where efficient interphase contact is desired, both on Earth and in space.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: On Saturday, the crew performed several activities in preparation for the ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) EVA. The crew performed tool configurations, tool audits, and equipment lock preparations. The crew also reviewed the EVA procedures and participated in a conference with the ground.
Cygnus Cargo Operations: Both today and Saturday, the crew completed cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the Cygnus Northrup Grumman (NG)-15 vehicle.
Safety Video Survey: Today the crew completed a video of the ISS interior volume to allow ground teams to assess current vehicle configuration as well as identify any areas of concern related to ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, emergency egress paths, access to fire ports and safety equipment. This survey is performed approximately every six months.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

This Weekend’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

IROSA Prep EVA Commanding and Support
Nominal Ground Commanding

