
Cygnus Destructive Re-Entry:   On Saturday, Cygnus completed its De-Orbit Delta-V (DDV)-1 burn at 4:32 am CST.  The spacecraft then crossed the Entry Interface and destructively re-entered the atmosphere at approximately 9:53 am CST.
 
Urine Processing Assembly UPA Status:  On Sunday, UPA faulted out due to belt slippage between the distillation assembly and its motor.  After faulting out 3 times, the ground team stood down from additional process attempts and directed the crew to configure Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) to store urine via internal tank [EDB-Y].  Ground teams are currently assessing a forward troubleshooting plan.
 
Sidekick Checkout:  Over the weekend, Kelly worked with ground teams to successfully checkout the Sidekick device and its internet connectivity.  All test objectives were successfully met in order to verify connectivity and make SKYPE calls, including a nonstop call of approximately 27 minutes.  The goal of the Sidekick investigation is to evaluate the use of new technology that has the potential to increase the efficiency of crew activities related to the daily execution of science, maintenance, and other ISS operations.
 
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-Heated-2 (H2):  Peake mixed ACE-H2 samples using a magnet from the BCAT experiment.  The ACE-H2 experiment involves the design and assembly of complex three-dimensional structures resulting from the interaction of different sized particles suspended within a fluid medium. These so-called “self-assembled colloidal structures”, are vital to the design of advanced materials. In the microgravity environment, insight will be provided into the relationship between particle interactions and their shape, surface charge and concentration. Their resulting structure and stability is a fundamental issue in condensed matter science.
 
Biochemical Profile and Cardio Ox:  Kelly performed his Return Minus 15 day session blood and urine collections for the Biochem Profile and Cardio Ox investigations.  He also, with Kopra performing as the operator, performed a Cardio Ox ultrasound measurement session. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts.
 
Sprint Ultrasound:  Kopra assisted Kelly in performing his Flight Day 330 thigh and calf ultrasound scans.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of the long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
 
Russian Joint Research (RJR) Microbiological Sampling:  Today Malenchenko performed visual analysis and data processing of the incubated samples from last week’s Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) and Surface Sample Kit (SSK) activities.  These surface and air samples support a microbiological assessment of the ISS and are performed as part of a joint cooperative research program between NASA and the Russian Space Agency.  Following this activity, Kopra packed the samples for return on 44S.
 
Crew Departure Preparation:  Kelly prepared and labeled cargo items for return to the ground via Soyuz 44 (44S).  He also packed his personal items for return, which will be split between 44S, SpaceX-8, and SpaceX-9 vehicles.
 
Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Catalytic Reactor Remove and Replace (R&R) Preparation:  Today, Kopra gathered equipment and tools needed in preparation for the WPA Catalytic Reactor R&R activity scheduled tomorrow. In addition, he worked to prepare the Treadmill 2 (T2) and Water Recovery System (WRS)-1 Racks for rotation.  The WPA Catalytic Reactor has been suspected of leaking since November, and has shown signs of increased leakage the past few weeks.
 
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

CORRECTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
On MCC GO Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Micropurification Cartridge
Microbial Removal Filter (MRF) Purge
Test activation of Vozdukh Atmosphere Purification System Emergency Vacuum Valves
ISS HAM radio power down
CARDOX – Setup Ops
OASIS PL: MWA prep for PL
Crew Departure Prep
Soyuz 719 Samsung tablet charge – initiate
OASIS PL. Optics Repair
WPA deactivation prep
CARDOX – Scanning
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring
LBNP Exercise (PRELIMINARY)
Russian Joint Research (RJR) – Inspection of Surface Samples and Petri Dishes
CARDOX – Measurements
Biological Rhythms Experiment. Hardware Prep
NanoRacks PL: Comm Troubleshooting on Platform-2
Microbial Removal Filter (MRF) Purge
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. HAM Radio Session with Schoolchildren from Chelyabinsk
SPRINT – Scanning Ops
ISS HAM Radio Power Up
Soyuz 718 Descent Drill and Return Equipment List & Stowage Consultation
Russian Joint Research (RJR) – MAS/SSK Samples Prepack for Return
Progress 429 (Aft) Transfers and IMS Updates
Terminate transfer of water to water storage tank via MRF filter
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE) – Overview
Soyuz 719 Samsung Tablet Recharge – terminate
USND2 – Hardware Deactivation
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE) – Preparation of MWA Surface Area
Gather items for upcoming WPA IFM
Prepack of US items for return on Soyuz 718
FIR Rack Doors Open
CORRECTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
Progress 429 (Aft) Transfers and IMS Updates
ACE – Preparation Operations Part 1
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: Strelau Test
IMS Delta File Prep
СОЖ Maintenance
MORZE. Experiment Setup
ACE – Preparation Operations Part 2
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: Strelau Test
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) – Preparation of Treadmill 2 and Water Recovery System 1 Rack
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: Cattell’s Test
ACE – Preparation Operations Part 3
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
FIR Rack Door Close
On MCC GO БМП Ф1 Absorption Cartridge Regeneration (end)
Reminder
CORRECTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake

 
Completed Task List Items

Sidekick Device Configuration and Checkout
ESA PAO

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal System Commanding

 
