
OsteoOmics: The crew performed BioCell Media Changeout in BioCell habitat S/N 2. Millions of Americans experience bone loss, which results from disease or the reduced effects of gravity that can occur in bed-ridden patients. OsteoOmics tests whether magnetic levitation accurately simulates the free-fall conditions of microgravity by comparing genetic expression osteoblastic cells, a type of bone cell, levitated in a high-field superconducting magnet with cells flown in low-Earth orbit. This information helps scientists determine the molecular and metabolic changes that take place in magnetic levitation and real microgravity.
Hermes Facility: The crew opened the MSL HERMES Vacuum valve. These operations maintain the desired vacuum levels for the granular/regolith simulation experiments typically hosted by the HERMES facility. Hermes is an experimental microgravity facility that enables science experiments, microgravity exposure testing, testing of engineering components, testing of CubeSats, concept trials, and any payloads that fit within the Hermes design and operations constraints. It is open to any investigation that benefits from microgravity exposure.
Fluid Shifts: The crew performed Baseline imaging Scans in support of the Fluid Shifts study. Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
The ISS Experience: The crew used the ISS Experience Hardware to record OsteoOmics operations and performed an Astronaut Log recording. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


PRO LSG Facility Commanding
HRF Rack 2 Rack Commanding
All-sky X-ray Image File Uplink
OsteoOmics-2 Support
S-Band and Ku-Band – FWD Link Swing
VRS MSRR Configuration Commanding

Saturday, 2/29 (GMT 060)
Payloads:


HRF Saliva collect (NASA)
ISS Experience H/W Stow (NASA)

Systems:

Crew off duty; housekeeping

Sunday, 3/1 (GMT 061)
Payloads:


No crew activities

Systems:

Crew off duty

Monday, 3/2 (GMT 062)
Payloads:


JAXA Mission Data Recorder t/s (JAXA)
JEM Water Recovery System Connection Inspection (JAXA)
OsteoOmics Media Bag removal from GLACIER (NASA)
HRF Saliva collection (NASA)
Standard Mission Cognition Test and Fecal collect setup (NASA)
STaARS BioScience-09 Cryotube kit S/N 1010 into Cold Stowage (NASA)
EarthKAM Shutdown and stow (Joint)

Systems:

Dragon RoBOT OBT
ARED quarterly maintenance
Portable Emergency Provisions inspection

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


PK-4 data hard drives exchange
Pille dosimeter readings download
VIZIR. Conducting Smart Drawer Coordinate Referencing System (СКП-УП) PL Session.
PK-4 Experiment Run 4/1
Fluid Shifts OCT2 baseline imaging setup
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 2 power on
Fluid Shifts blood pressure ops
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound ops
ISS Experience setup
ISS Experience recording prep
ISS Experience recording
Measuring glass deflection on SM window No.1 in SM
MERLIN ice brick insertion
Vacuum Cleaning of Dust collectors ПC1, ПС2 filter cartridges in FGB (panels 203, 403)
PK-4 Experiment Run 4/2
OsteoOmics-2 media change
Air sample collection using Draeger tube air sampler (ИПД) in SM for CO
Air sample collection in SM and FGB using АК-1М sampler
Preventive Maintenance of SM Ventilation Subsystem. Group А

 