
Payloads:
Human Research Facility-2 (HRF-2): The HRF Boot Drive was inserted into the HRF PC2 laptop. The HRF PC2 was restarted, and the crew entered the BIOS settings to start the software image load. HRF-2 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables human life science researchers to study and evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by spaceflight. Research performed using HRF-2 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI): Ice bricks were inserted into MELFI units 1, 2, and 3. The MELFI is a cold storage unit capable of maintaining experiment samples at ultra-cold temperatures throughout a mission. The MELFI units use nitrogen as a working fluid and have standard set points of -95°C, -35°C and 2°C.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The USB Hard Drives were removed from the PK4 hardware and connected to the Multi-Purpose Computer and Communications (MPCC) laptop in preparation for Data Downlink. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Systems (Crew Half-Day):
Simplified Air for Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Rescue (SAFER) Activities: Today the crew removed the SAFER lithium manganese dioxide battery, installed the SAFER battery adapter, and performed a checkout of the SAFERs in preparation for EVAs. Essentially a “life jacket” for spacewalks, SAFER is a self-contained maneuvering unit that is worn like a backpack. The system relies on small jet thrusters to let an astronaut move around in space.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS Hover Maneuver
SSRMS LEE High Definition Survey
MSS Maneuver to Park

