
Bio-Monitor: A crew conference was held between the Bio-Monitor Team and David Saint-Jacques to discuss his experience on the 48-hour recording session with the Bio-Monitor Instrument. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way. The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, ECG (Electrocardiogram), skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc. 
Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) Fan Cable Swap: The crew attempted to perform troubleshooting on the right work volume fan in the LSG. The goal was to reconfigure the cables to allow the faulty unit to be narrowed to either the right fan itself or right fan inverter. Unfortunately, the LSG was not able to be powered up nominally during the later activities and the troubleshooting was not able to be completed.  The ground teams are assessing a forward plan. The LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crew members can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Node 2 Smoke Detector Repair Attempt: The crew attempted to repair a damaged wire associated with Node 2 Smoke Detector 1. The frayed wired was discovered during routine housekeeping in December. Further investigation determined that the frayed wire affected the Built-In Test (BIT) function of the Smoke Detector. After today’s crew activity, Flight Controllers activated the Smoke Detector, however the BIT failure signature was still present. This redundant smoke detector has since been deactivated, while  teams work on a forward plan.
Completed Task List Activities:

Equipment Lock Preparation Part 1A

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Nominal Ground Commanding

Look Ahead:  
Friday, 03/01 (GMT 060):
Payloads:


EML Lens switch
Plasma Kristal-4 fam
PCG temp controller closeout
Team Task Switching

Systems:

SpX-Demo1 Ingress Review and Conference

Saturday, 03/02 (GMT 061):
Payloads:


No payload activities

Systems:

SpX Demo-1 Launch at 01:49 AM CT

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


In-Flight Maintenance Node 2 Area Smoke Detector Wire Repair
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Setup
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Stow
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Swap
Behavioral Core Measures Cognition Testing HRF PC 1
Behavioral Core Measures Journals Entry
Behavioral Core Measures ROBoT-r Testing
Crew Handover Conference
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – OCT2 Exam – Operator
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT2 Setup
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT2 Stow
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT2 Exam – Subject
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT2 Prep
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Questionnaire
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test
ISS Experience Cupola Setup
ISS Experience Hardware Relocate
ISS Experience Hardware Stow
JEM System Laptop Terminal Reboot
Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) Fan E-Box Cable Swap Part 1
Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) Fan E-Box Cable Swap Part 2
METEOR Hardware Check and Activation
METEOR Laptop Reboot
Team Task Switching Experiment Survey
Installation of Wide Band Comm System (ШСС) Equipment in the SM (Installation of Instrument Panels)
TV System deactivation and closeout ops
Camcorder setup and activation for TV broadcast

 