02-26-2012February 26, 2012
ISS On-Orbit Status 02/26/12 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      Sunday – Crew off duty.   Ahead:  Week 14 of Increment 30 (six-person crew). After breakfast, FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection. After wakeup, CDR Burbank, FE-5 Kuipers & FE-6 Pettit each completed another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, the 31st Dan, the 25th for André & Don.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.] FE-5 Kuipers continued his 3rd (FD60) Pro K session with Day 4 for a 5-day period, with diet logging after the urine pH spot test.  In addition to recording his diet input, Andre began the associated 24-hr urine collections and later set up the equipment for the blood sampling which follows tomorrow.       [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD370, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet & urine pH logging and photography on the last day (science sessions are often referred to by Flight Day 15, 30, 60, etc.  However, there are plus/minus windows associated with these time points so a “Flight Day 15” science session may not actually fall on the crewmember’s 15th day on-orbit).  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  On Days 4 & 5, urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI Dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.] FE-1 Shkaplerov completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM and FGB.      [This included the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow, as well as the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s & FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for calldown.  SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.] Anatoly Ivanishin checked the KOB2 cooling loop in the SM, at a liquid connector on the 4SPN2 panel for coolant leaks.     [In case there were any large droplets (10-20 cm3), FE-2 was to report to TsUP-Moscow.] At ~10:18am EST, Anton Shkaplerov turned on the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) for a ham radio session with the astronomy team at Tver from the Palace for Youth and Children’s Creativity.      [In 1990, Tver, formerly the city of Kalinin, was renamed in 1990 to its historic name.]  CDR & FE-6 were scheduled for their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Don at ~11:15am, Dan at ~4:00pm EST. The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycled ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).      [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND leg muscle self scan in COL.  Today’s exercise called for CEVIS, with ARED+T2, T2, ARED+T2 & CEVIS following in the next 4 days.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.] Dan Burbank spent ~3 hrs of his free time on the extensive job of preparing the endcone space of the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) to create a trash staging area prior to Progress loading.     [Activities included configuring the space with 7 MO2 bags and an old 5-MLE bag with WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) trash.  Still needed: relocating common trash JSBs (Jettison Stowage Bags), systems trash JSBs, CWC-I's (Contingency Water Containers-Iodized), empty CTBs (Cargo Transport Bags), spare hardware, etc. to the endcone.] Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko & Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on the Pamir glaciers Bear, RGS, and Mabuza, Baikal and Aral Seas, the glaciers of Patagonia, the Kerch Strait, Taman, Laganakskoe plateau, the Volcanos Cordon-Kaul and Hierro, and the glacier Allalin,A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Pacific, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, andMore preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb). No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today. 