02-23-2011February 23, 2011ISS On-Orbit Status 02/23/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       Before the regular audio-DPC (Daily Planning Conference) at 3:00am EST, CDR Kelly & FE-6 Coleman took documentary photographs of each other while positioned adjacent to the BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) payload setup.  FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dmitri will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.] Also at wake-up, CDR Kelly, FE-5 Nespoli & FE-6 Coleman completed another post-sleep shift session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.  It was the 10th for Scott, the 11th for Cady & Paolo.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.] Coleman prepared for her upcoming session with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight) by setting up the HRF (Human Research Facility) PC1 laptop, Actiwatch Reader and SLEEP software, plus replacing the Actiwatch battery and initializing her Actiwatch.    [The PC was then powered off, and the hardware decabled and stowed.]  Working in the MRM1 Rassvet module, FE-1 Kaleri had ~2h 15m to remove the failed TVU Terminal Computing Device behind panel 203 and replace it with a new spare TVU from FGB stowage, followed by connecting it to the BKS onboard cabling system.     [The TVU in MRM2 Poisk was replaced by Alex on 2/12.] Later, Kaleri also replaced a light in the Soyuz 24S DM (Descent Module, SA = Spuskaemyj apparat) with a new SD1-6 lamp from spares storage. CDR Kelly & FE-6 Coleman each had a one-hour block of time reserved for a POC DOUG (Portable Onboard Computers / Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) review of the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) operations they will be conducting during ULF5. FE-6 Coleman cleared space in Node-1 for PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) berthing on FD6 (Flight day 6) of the ULF5 mission next week, removing remaining stowage items from the D2 hatch location that will not be required for the PMM. Additional Node-1 preparations by Kelly later consisted of setting the nadir hatch mechanism to Unlatch, then installing and checking out the CBCS (Centerline Berthing Camera System) at the nadir port for PMM berthing. In the US Lab, Scott Kelly performed major IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the CCAA (Common Cabin Air Assembly) air conditioner/dehumidifier in the S6 rack by replacing its failed water separator with a spare unit.    [Activity steps included termination of the THC LTL (Temperature & Humidity Control / Low Temperature Loop) flow through the CCAA, retrieval of the spare water separator from JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment) stowage, moving goods,  including SSC (Station Support Computer) laptops, out of the way to temporary stowage, S6 rack rotation down to gain access and replacement of the failed Water Separator.  The rack was then rotated up again and stowage and equipment were restored to nominal conditions.  FE-5 Nespoli later re-activated the LTL water flow to the CCAA.] Cady Coleman started her 2nd session (of 3 total) with the JAXA experiment “Biological Rhythms” (BIORHYTHMS), for which she donned the electrodes of the DWH (Digital Walk Holter) for ECG (electrocardiogram) recording, then initiated the data take for the next 24 hrs. In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Cady unstowed & set up the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware, including MBS (Mixing Bag System), for her 3rd session with the VO2max assessment, integrated with Thermolab, scheduled tomorrow.  Paolo Nespoli joined in by taking documentary photography of the 5 GDS (Gas Delivery System) tank pressure gauges and the PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders which support the PFSS.      [The experiment VO2max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% & 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.] Kaleri & Skripochka completed their first preliminary orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test session with the Russian Chibis (“Lapwing”) suit by conducting the MedOps MO-4 exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill, each crewmember taking turns as Subject and CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Alex was supported in his one-hour session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 6:13am, Oleg at 7:47am EST.     [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of crewmembers’ orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after long-term stay in zero-G.  Data output includes blood pressure readings.]  Afterwards, Oleg conducted the regular inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness). In the SM, Dmitri Kondratyev collected more KAV condensate water samples from the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor (water recovery system) in empty drink bags, first upstream of the FGS gas/liquid mixture filter/separator (a periodic check on the performance of the FGS), then upstream of the SRV-K2M BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit. FE-5 also undertook the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PrK–Progress, DC1–Progress, PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment) – RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.] Later, Kondratyev performed the periodic dumping (downlinking) of log files from the BSPN Payload Server in SM for ground specialists to verify recent maintenance work and software upgrades. FE-5 Nespoli had another 2 hrs for prepacking equipment for return on ULF5, going by an uplinked list.     [This was the final prepack activity prior to the ULF5 launch.  During this time, the Italian flight engineer performed 3 different tasks: Gathering items for return, reconfiguring Return Bag 408, and removing some items from the prepack pile.] Paolo serviced the new ESA EPO (Education Payload Operation) Greenhouse in COL by watering both greenhouses, a weekly activity. Scott performed another module data take on the CubeLab and transferred files of collected data to laptop for downlink.     [CubeLab is a low-cost 1-kg platform for educational projects.  It is a multipurpose research facility that interfaces small standard modules into the ERs (EXPRESS Racks).  The modules can be used within the pressurized space station environment in orbit, with a nominal length, width, and height of 100 mm and a mass of no more than 1 g.  Up to 16 CubeLab modules can be inserted into a CubeLab insert inside an ER.] Dima handled the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Kondratyev also conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] With the video camera in Node-3 still set up from yesterday, Dmitri Kondratyev’s workout session on the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) was recorded today, to meet the regular 30-day requirement for biomechanical evaluation of the on-orbit crewmembers, and evaluation of the hardware status. The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1/2x, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but is done regularly after the last T2 session of the day.] At ~6:20am EST, Dmitri Kondratyev supported a Russian PAO TV event, engaging in an exchange with the “Spotlight” Program of the Russia Today TV channel, the first Russian news TV channel broadcasting 24 hours day in English, Spanish and Arabic (since December 2005), reaching millions of TV viewers across 5 continents from more than 100 countries.      [In a face-to-face interview, Dima responded to questions asked by the show’s anchor, Alexander Gurnov, along with Pilot-Cosmonaut Alexander Sergeyevich Ivanchenkov as guest participant.] At ~12:50pm, Scott Kelly, Cady Coleman & Paolo Nespoli joined in a TV downlink addressing today’s NASA Hearing before the U.S. House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and its Chairman, Congressman Ralph Hall. CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Bulusan Volcanic Eruption, Philippine Islands (DYNAMIC EVENT:  One of the Philippines’ most active volcanoes began erupting violently yesterday, producing a 3-km high plume and prompting evacuation of thousands.  This stratovolcano is just over 5,000 feet high and is located on a peninsula in the extreme southeast of the main island of Luzon.  ISS had a late afternoon pass in fair weather for documenting this event.  As the station approached the large island of Luzon from the SW, the crew was to look just right of track and attempt different lens settings for their photography), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (HMS Beagle Site:  ISS had a mid-afternoon pass with fair weather for this renowned coastal city of southeastern Brazil.  As it tracked northeastward along the Brazilian coast, the crew was to look near-nadir for Rio’s prime visual cue, Guanabara Bay.  In April of 1832 Darwin undertook an expedition inland from Rio, presently a city of more than 7 million), and Dakar, Senegal (the capital city of Senegal has a population estimated at just over 1 million and dominates the promontory known as Cape Verde, Africa’s westernmost point.  ISS had a late afternoon pass in clear weather for this target with its approach from the SW.  As it approached the coast, the crew was to look nadir and try for a view of the entire urban area within a single frame). 