
Payloads:
Astrobee Maneuvering by Robotic Manipulator Hopping (Astrobatics): Astrobatics skins were installed onto the Astrobee free-fliers and science session #4 was performed. Astrobatics demonstrates the Astrobee robotic vehicles using robotic manipulators to execute a hopping or self-toss maneuver as the primary means of propulsion, making it mostly propellant-less. Astrobee performs increasingly complex maneuvers between handrails using its perching arm to demonstrate vehicle dynamic modeling and guidance and control of the robot. These maneuvers may be incorporated into future robotic missions and advanced terrestrial robotic applications.
Falcon Goggles: The crew set up the hardware and performed a successful checkout of the Falcon goggles system. These goggles use unobtrusive cameras to track eye movements to understand how spaceflight impacts the astronauts’ eye health and balance over time. The Falcon goggles are part of the Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER) investigation, which aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars.
ISS Ham: The crew participated in an ISS Ham pass with Istituto Statale di Istruzione Superiore Il Pontormo, Empoli, Italy. Located in three different buildings in the municipality of Empoli (in the heart of Tuscany), the Il Pontormo high school is attended by students aged between 14 and 19. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL): In preparation for the upcoming Engineered Heart Tissue-2 investigation, CO2 incubation controllers were installed in the SABL1 and SABL2 units. These controllers have a limited lifetime and are replaced as needed. The SABL unit supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical, and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28VDC and 5VDC power supplies for investigation use.
Veg-05: The crew reset the light schedule for the Red Robin dwarf tomatoes growing in the two Veggie facilities. The plants were also inspected, watered as needed, and photographed. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
Crew Dragon Departure Preparations: The Endurance crew continued activities in preparation for their departure and the arrival of Crew-6. The crew prepared personal items for return and performed cleaning, stowage, and inventory tasks. The crew also staged first use supplies and other preference items for arriving crew. A Dragon Deorbit paper simulation and conference were completed with the SpaceX ground team.
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The crew set up the recycle tank to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the Offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection: The crew inspects the AED and its associated consumables on a monthly basis. The crew tested batteries and examined the outer AED case and AED Electrodes Kit.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

ATS PPL Loading

