
Payloads:
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew continued the work to install the High-Speed Camera system into ELF. This camera will be used to support the next set of ELF experiments. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in Kibo.
Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones): Following the completion of the experiment operations yesterday, today the crew charged and stowed the experiment hardware. The Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g., muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth, as well as for future space missions.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning: In preparation for Crew-5 departure, the crew cleaned the intake and exhaust ducts, fans, and airflow sensors in the overhead and deck CQ. Port CQ cleaning was completed earlier in the week, and additional starboard CQ cleaning is scheduled later in the week. 
Crew Dragon Departure Preparations: The Endurance crew continued preparations for their departure and the arrival of Crew-6. The crew reviewed On Board Training (OBT) for Dragon nominal departure and deorbit, prepared personal items for return, and performed cleaning, stowage, and inventory tasks.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: The crew performed a monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screen tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking, and spatial processing.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Crew Dragon C2V2 Checkout
Crew Dragon System Checkout
ISS External Video Survey of CREAM and MAXI RFGFs

