
MAGVECTOR: Peake performed a data transfer from the jump drive to an SSC folder and reconfigured the switches on the portable power supply 1 (PPS1), completing the 7th run of European Space Agency’s (ESA) MAGVECTOR experiment. Run #8 scheduled for next week will be the last experiment run for Increment 47.  MAGVECTOR qualitatively investigates the interaction between a moving magnetic field and an electrical conductor. The expected changes in the magnetic field structure on the ram and wake side of the electrical conductor are of interest for technical applications as well as for astrophysical research.
Fine Motor Skills:  Kopra and Peake each completed a session of the Fine Motor Skills experiment by completing a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
Dose Tracker:  Kopra and Peake completed entries for medication tracking. This investigation documents the medication used by crew members before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
Observation and Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS) Gylcerol/Water Fill: Kopra successfully performed troubleshooting to resolve pneumatic commanding capabilities that were identified during yesterday’s video checkout. He then began the next science run of the OASIS Gylcerol/Water Fill activity by filling the Inkjet droplet device with glycerol/water for the final experiment protocol on each sample container and exchanged the hard drive. OASIS studies the unique behavior of liquid crystals in microgravity, including their overall motion and the merging of crystal layers known as smectic islands. Liquid crystals are used for display screens in televisions and clocks, and they also occur in soaps and in cell membranes. The experiment allows detailed studies of the behavior of these structures, and how microgravity affects their unique ability to act like both a liquid and a solid crystal.
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2): Peake reviewed Big Picture words in preparation for tomorrow’s planned hardware installation. Following the review, Peake and Kopra gathered tools that will be required for the installation.
 
On Board Training (OBT) 45 Soyuz (45S) Emergency Drill:  All 3 crew members participated in this OBT to practice emergency departure of the ISS. This drill is scheduled when a crew has been on onboard the Station for 12-14 weeks and once every 2.5 months thereafter.
 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status: The UPA is operational and has completed its first process run. The second process run is currently in progress.  The data looks nominal so far.
 
Robotics Offset Tool (ROST) Freespace Checkout: On 2/4/16 the ROST objective had to be deferred from the Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) demonstration due to an issue with the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) ORU Tool Changeout Mechanism (OTCM) grasping the ROST. The OTCM gripper stalled before reaching the minimum capture position.  A checkout is currently in progress and is using new capture envelope parameters.  The activity will continue until late this evening.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Fine Motor Skills – Experiment Ops
ISS Emergency Descent Training r/g 1610
C2V2 Hardware Install Big Picture Words
Camcorder setup to capture БД-2 exercise / r/g 1615
C2V2 – Gathering equipment for the activity with LAB1P5
On MCC Go Testing БД-2 Treadmill. БД-2 Exercise  Day 3
DOSETRK – Questionnaire Completion
Observation and Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS) – Fill the Inkjet droplet device with water
Remove Video Equipment Used to capture БД-2 Exercise and Downlink the file / r/g 1615
Multi Omics (MO) – Saliva collection equipment setup
DOSETRK – Questionnaire Completion
COSMOCARD. Setup. Starting 24-hr ECG Recording / r/g 1611
Taping NAS Payload Power Cable
Food Frequency Questionnaire
NMAP – Experiment Ops
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV
MAGVEC – Data Export
СОЖ Maintenance
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
EPO – Copying files from Micro CD to SSC
IMS Conference
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Nutritional Assessment (ESA)
IDENTIFICATION. Copy ИМУ-Ц micro-accelerometer data to laptop / r/g 1589
NINJA. Document Printout
IMS Delta File Prep
Post-Exercise Hygiene Procedure
HAM-VIDEO Power Up

 
Completed Task List Items

WHC EDV-Y R&R

 
Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted. 

MSS powerup [Complete]
ROST checkout/unstow/stow
MSS powerdown

 
