
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction/Growth and Extinction Limit (CIR/SoFIE/GEL):The GEL experiment samples, igniter tip, and adsorber cartridge were replaced in support of continuing experiment runs. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the CIR that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. The GEL experiment studies burning in microgravity, measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. Results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques, improving crew safety in future space facilities.
Investigating Structure and Function of the Eye (ISAFE): A science session including pneumotonometry, blood pressure measurement, and ultrasound scans was initiated, but due to video issues, could not be completed. The activities will be rescheduled to a later date. Microgravity causes blood and cerebrospinal fluid to shift toward the head, which is believed to be an underlying cause of structural changes to the eyes, known as “Spaceflight Associated Neuro-Ocular Syndrome” or SANS. ISAFE measures eye, brain, and blood vessel changes during missions of several lengths to determine whether SANS varies with mission length, whether these changes recover when crew members return to Earth, and how long any potential recovery takes. Results could help predict eye changes on future long-duration spaceflights, such as trips to Mars, and support development of methods to protect astronauts’ eyes.
ISS Ham: The crew participated in an ISS Ham pass with Jumeirah College Dubai, Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Questions asked by the students included how waste is managed on ISS, the favorite foods of crew members, and how the crew prepares mentally and physically for the trip to the ISS.  Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Veg-05: The crew accessed the Veggie facilities and performed a harvest of the Red Robin tomato plants currently growing. This is one of several harvest events for the experiment, which was started in mid-December. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. The research of Veg-05 expands crop variety to dwarf tomatoes and focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on fruit production, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.
Systems:
Toilet Dose Pump Troubleshooting: The dose pump ensures that the correct amount of pre-treat chemicals are added to urine to help process it. Anomalous performance data suggests that the dose pump is failed. Troubleshooting steps included checking the outlet of the dose pump and a dead head actuation to evaluate performance. The crew has completed the dose pump troubleshooting activity; however, the dormancy portion of the procedure has been deferred due to time constraints.
ISS Crew Handover and Adaptation: The experienced Endurance Crew and 69S crew started a handover with the newly arrived Endeavour Crew to transfer knowledge of the intricacies of onboard equipment and working in microgravity. The newly arrived crew member executed activities and the experienced crew member provided oversight and assistance.
SpaceX Cargo Dragon Rendezvous Review: The crew reviewed SpaceX (SpX-27) rendezvous and proximity operations program (RPOP) in preparation for its planned for arrival on March 16th. After reviewing the RPOP, the crew reviewed videos of the SpX-27 nominal and off-nominal Dragon approaches. The crew participated in a debrief conference with the ground teams to discuss rendezvous questions.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS Walkoff Maneuver
Small Fine Arm (SFA) grasping SFA Storage Equipment (SSE) Tool Fixture 2
Wireless Instrumentation System (WIS) Operations

