03-06-2010March 06, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 03/06/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – light-duty day.   At wake-up, FE-4 Kotov did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-4 again inspects the filters tonight before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   CDR Williams & FE-6 Creamer continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), donning their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Williams, Creamer & FE-5 Noguchi completed another Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  A total of 121 RST runs are assigned to Jeff for the duration of his orbital stay.]   The five station residents performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   Oleg Kotov also completed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.   After unstowing an SRN manual pump and VK-316M vacuum pressure gauge, Kotov worked in the DC1 Docking Compartment on the TCS (Thermal Control System), using the TCS compensator manifold there to re-establish operational pressure in the KOB2 loop of the Russian SOTR internal thermal control system.   FE-4 also initiated (later terminated) another refresh of the ISS cabin atmosphere with pressurized O2 from Progress M-04M/36P oxygen storage for about an hour.   In the SM, FE-1 Suraev did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   For his VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) program today, FE-5 Noguchi set up the High Definition TV gear (G1 camcorder, MPC/Multipurpose Converter, IPU/Image Processing Unit) and conducted the third JAXA “Try Zero-G” demo, showing examples of the difference between 0G and 1G.  The recording was then downlinked via high-rate ICS (Inter-Orbit Communication System) data link.      [The first two sessions had been performed by Koichi Wakata in 2009, with the first one viewed by Japanese press, including 5 TV and 10 newspaper reporters.]   The VolSci session with SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite) originally scheduled for Williams & Creamer was cancelled.   Soichi collected water samples from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Hot and Ambient lines for microbial in-flight processing, using a Microbial Analysis Packet for a 50 mL sample drawn from each port in a small waste water bag.  The samples were processed as usual with MCDs (Microbial Capture Devices) and CDBs (Coliform Detection Bags).   FE-5 also performed the periodic reboot of the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module)’s SLT (Systems Laptop Terminal).   Afterwards, Soichi terminated his second session with the JAXA experiment “Biological Rhythms” after completing the 24-hr. run, doffing the electrodes of the DWH (Digital Walk Holter) for ECG (Electrocardiogram) recording, then saving the Holter ECG data on the MLT (MMA {Microgravity Measurement Apparatus} Laptop Terminal).   Williams, Creamer & Noguchi conducted a new session with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC laptop and performing the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.  It was the 5th session for Jeff, the 3rd for Soichi & TJ.     [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]   Jeff, TJ & Soichi filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   At ~9:05am EST, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   FE-1, FE-5 & FE-6 had their weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Soichi at ~6:40am, Max at ~9:35am, TJ at ~2:35pm.   The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1/2x, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive device (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6).  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Two -- Week 14)   3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    No report.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:   No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):   No report.   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   #3 data collection has performed the last data collection from Jeff on 2/25-26.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    “Jeff & Soichi: Your next pill ingestion is scheduled for 3/7.”  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    “Jeff, thank you for performing the CARD activities on 3/1 & 3/2.  The activities on the second day could not all be completed due to a problem with the COL HRM. Two PFS rebreathing sessions could not be performed and unfortunately cannot be recovered.  Loss of science was assessed to be up to ~25% if analogue data can be obtained for the other subjects. The blood draw that also could not be performed has been rescheduled for 3/9. You are still considered a valid subject, and we thank you for your activities and apologize for the inconveniences.”  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    Frozen Samples moved to GLACIER.  Sample will be returned by 20A.  CETSOL (ESA):   2 processed sample cartridge assemblies (SCAs) were successfully returned on 20A.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.     DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    Continuing to acquire data.  Due to the COL HRM problem, the data downlink on 3/2 could not be performed. This ground activity will be replanned, and no science impact is expected.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):     No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    No report.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):    No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    No report.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):  No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):    “The first on-orbit power-on for FIR and LMM went well.  The FIR Functional Checkout was completed successfully with a couple of minor issues with SAMS and ARIS.  The LMM Functional Checkout successfully checked out all LMM Microscope motors and proper functioning of the LMM Monochrome Camera.  At this point, the LMM Test Target work has progressed to y-axis repeatability motion.  We still need to work out a minor issue with the CVB Surveillance Camera.  The FIR File Uplink has been initiated per the timeline.  We are currently resolving an issue with two corrupt files.  We have been greatly anticipating the power on of the FIR and LMM.  Thank you to everyone who has worked so hard to get us to this point – especially TJ for all his voluntary science time to finish configuring the hardware.”  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   Tapes were returned on ULF3.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):   The FSL handle repair was successfully completed on 3/4.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating.  A downlink issue that affected ~35 images is being worked.  526 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    No report.   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    No report.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Continuing observation operation.  Marangoni UVP:   Data acquisition for the series of experiments 1-7 and an MMA data downlink have been completed.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MICAST (ESA):    2 processed sample cartridge assemblies (SCAs) successfully downloaded on 20A.  Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE7 (Materials ISS Experiment):   To prevent overheating during increasing beta angles, MISSE7 PEC 7b was shut down 2/22.  PEC 7b is planned to be returned to normal operations on 3/8.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory):    No report.   MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.   MYCO 1 (JAXA):    Sample Collection and MELFI stow are complete.  Sample will return on 20A using DCB (Double Cold Bag).  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    On 3/1, the experiment started; the MEU was attached into the CBEF Incubator. On 3/5, samples 1 and 2 were recovered, and on 3/12, sample 3 will be recovered.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “Jeff, TJ, and Soichi: thank you for your continued participation in Reaction Self Test!”   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    A CGSE/CBEF CO2 leak check has been completed.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuing observation operations.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Jeff and TJ:  You are currently completing another week of Sleep logging.  Your continued support is appreciated.   Jeff:  Thanks for completing the monthly Actiwatch download and getting Tracy’s Actiwatch configured.  We will be downlinking the data later this week to send to the PI.”  SMILES (JAXA):    “We are still experiencing the loss of packet data since 2/24.”  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in. Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     Additional crew & ground troubleshooting activities were performed on 3/4. The attempts at power cycling and new mapping of the SODI disk to access the SODI internal disk were unsuccessful. Thus it was decided not to proceed with Part II and Part III of the troubleshooting plan. A new plan is being worked with the support of the PI.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):     The weekly SOLSPEC calibration and SOLACES temperature check were nominally completed on 3/3. The next Sun observation window #26 is planned to start on 3/9.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.:     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):     No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   “Jeff, thanks for completing your blood draw.  The PI team will be in Russia to welcome you back and complete post-flight BDC with you.” VO2max (NASA):    “Jeff, you have worked so hard to overcome issues and complete your VO2max session!  We have all the data on the ground and are starting the analysis. You have now completed your in-flight portion of the VO2max experiment. We’d like to thank you for letting us on-board with the videos; they have provided us with valuable information during the exercise protocol. We are working to schedule a Kit Consolidation activity before you return to trash used consumables and add new ones from a Resupply Kit.”  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):    Through 3/1, a total of 66,005 frames of ISS/CEO imagery were received on the ground for review and cataloging.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of imagery for the following CEO Target Requests:  Santiago, Chile – useful imagery for comparisons, just prior to the major earthquake;  Buenos Aires, Argentina – excellent detailed mapping imagery – only context imagery needed now;  Chaiten Volcano, southern Chile – excellent, detailed imagery of Chaiten and surrounding areas – requirements met for this increment;  Northern Glaciers of the Southern Patagonian Ice Field – excellent views noted – under evaluation for requirements.  Your excellent, sun glint-enhanced view of Male Atoll, Maldives Islands, Indian Ocean was published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  The glint in the water reveals numerous details of the complex water circulation within the islands that would otherwise would have been invisible.  Nice shot!  Also, your timely view of Concepcion, Chile within hours of the devastating quake of last weekend will be published today as an Image of the Day on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website.  While the image lacks sufficient detail to reveal damage to buildings, several smoke plumes are present and spans of a bridge over the Bio-Bio River appear to have collapsed.  Great heads-up photography!  Thank you.”   CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Phnom Penh, Cambodia (ISS had a near-nadir pass over the Cambodian capital in fair weather and mid-afternoon light.  This city of just over two million in population is located on the Mekong River in the southern part of the country.  As the crew tracked inland from the SW, they were to look for this target on the west bank of the river), Simon's Bay, Cape Point, S. Africa (HMS Beagle Site:  Darwin and the Beagle stopped here in June, 1836.  The most important aspect of this stop appears to have been Darwin's visit to the noted astronomer Sir John Herschel who lived near Cape Town.  Darwin called this "the most memorable event which, for a long period, I have had the good fortune to enjoy."  Both Darwin and Herschel had read the Lyell's famous Principles of Geology.  Their discussion is not recorded, but they were thinking along similar lines: a few months earlier Herschel had written to Lyell praising the Principles as "a complete revolution in [its] subject, … altering entirely the point of view" in which scientists would think about geology; and as opening a way for bold speculation on "that mystery of mysteries, the replacement of extinct species by others."  ISS approached the South African coast from the SW at late-morning with fair weather expected and a near nadir view), Conakry, Guinea (Conakry with a population estimated at nearly 2 million, is the largest city in Guinea and its major shipping port.  At mid-afternoon ISS approached the western African coast from the SW.  It is the dry season and fair weather was expected.  Looking nadir for the city, situated on a narrow spit of land extending into the Atlantic Ocean), Santiago, Chile (the devastating 8.8 magnitude earthquake this past weekend makes the cities and coastal areas of Chile an ongoing target for ISS/CEO photography in the coming days.  Today’s best pass offered a near-nadir pass over the heavily damaged capital city of Santiago.  As the crew approached the coast from the SW, they were to look right of track and map northward along the coast from near Concepcion to nadir and then inland towards and over Santiago.  They had an early afternoon pass in clear weather and any other views of the region as a whole may be useful), and Galapagos Islands, Ecuador (HMS Beagle Site:  Darwin and the Beagle first sighted this equatorial archipelago on September 15, 1835.  After over five weeks of surveying the island in detail, he wrote:  "The natural history of this archipelago is very remarkable:  it seems to be a little world within itself; the greater number of its inhabitants, both vegetable and animal, being found nowhere else."   Weather satellite imagery suggests a break in this year’s persistent El Niño-related cloudiness over the islands.  As ISS approached the islands in mid-afternoon, the crew was to look nadir for context views of most or all of the islands).  