
Airway Monitoring Experiment: The crew prepared the airlock by removing equipment, transferring and setting up Airway Monitoring hardware and configuring a video camera. This experiment was performed in the US airlock at 10.2 psi pressure with the hatch closed. This is the first time the US equipment lock (as a hypobaric facility) was used for performing utilization. Operations started nominally with the first low Nitric Oxide (NO) Fractional Expired Nitric Oxide (FENO) measurements under ambient pressure. An anomaly occurred when transitioning to the high NO Diffuse Capacity in Lungs Nitric Oxide (DLNO) measurements under ambient pressure. Teams observed the Low NO Analyzer going into an unexpected long warm-up mode after each measurement. Troubleshooting was unsuccessful and no ambient pressure DLNO measurements were performed. In the reduced pressure of 10.2 psi, three of twelve low NO measurements were captured for Virts and none for Cristoforetti. None of the four planned DNLO measurements were collected in the pressurized Airlock configuration. Ground specialists are developing a forward plan.
40 Soyuz (40S) Return Prep: Preparations continue for the upcoming 40S undock and return next week. Two ISS Reboosts have been completed to set up the proper ISS phasing for 40S landing in the southern zone. The crew has also completed a nominal Sokol Suit checkout, parts 1 and 2 of the Soyuz OBT decent drill, Soyuz thruster test, and has begun staging return cargo for loading in the vehicle.   
Spare Pump Module (PM) Relocation:  Earlier today the Robotics Ground Controllers removed the degraded PM from External Stowage Platform (ESP)2 are are currently working to remove the spare PM from Express Logistics Carrier (ELC)2.  Later today, and tomorrow if required, the Ground Controllers will install the degraded PM on the ELC2 and the spare PM will be installed on the ESP2.  The purpose of this PM swap is to position the good spare PM in a better location should it be needed for a PM R&R EVA.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


HRF Urine Sample Collection
ТК 714 СУДН No. 2 Test Before Undocking r/g 8192
AIRMON experiment
ТК 714 АСУ Activation
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor / r/g 8041
HRF – Equipment stowage after sample collection
Data Transfer and Dosimeter Stowage
MICB Photography
LBNP Exercise
MICB – Ziploc bag insertion into MELFI
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill [Aborted]
Surface samples from FGB equipment and structures / r/g 8183
International Docking Adapter (IDA) Ethernet Cable Procedure Review
Crew Departure Prep
Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Stowage Ops
ТК 714 Descent OBT. / r/g 8182, 8193
Copying EXPOSE-R P/L data from БСПН to RSS1, start / r/g 8190
BIODEGRADATSIYA. r/g 8191
Replacing Pre-Treat container and hose in [АСУ]
АСУ Activation / Life Support System (СОЖ),
WPA – Waste Water Tank Offload into CWC
MELF3 – Insert Ice Bricks
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill [Aborted]
WPA – Waste Water Tank Offload into CWC – terminate
Copying EXPOSE-R P/L data from БСПН to RSS1 – terminate / r/g 8190
THC – PFA Installation
IMS Delta File Prep
PBA – Relocation
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor / r/g 8041
Flight Director / ISS Crew Tagup
COGN – Experiment Ops

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


40S Thruster Test
Airway Monitoring
PM FRAM Swap [In Work]

