03-08-2011March 08, 2011ISS On-Orbit Status 03/08/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    FD13 (Flight Day 13) of STS-133/ULF-5.    Discovery on your final leg – Have a Good Trip Home!   (See below for a hail from Capt. Kirk….) Crew wake/sleep cycle is back to “normal”:  6:00am-21:30 GMT (1:00am-4:30pm EST). CDR Scott Kelly continued his new week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 9th session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.] FE-1 Alex Kaleri completed another session with the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment, assisted in the 3h 10m session by Oleg Skripochka.  Later, the Pilot-M & Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled & stowed away, data files were downloaded, and Alex reported to TsUP-Moscow on his run.     [MBI-15 requires the Multipurpose Hardware Bench as a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO & RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) with software (v. 2.0) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.] FE-5 Paolo Nespoli initiated another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer) and deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.     [This was the 23rd session with the replaced GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 7 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop (due to a software glitch, the software needs to be opened, closed, and then reopened in order to ensure good communication between GC/DMS and SSC-12).  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.] Later, FE-6 Cady Coleman replaced the power supply of the AQM, disconnecting it from the deployed power supply and reconnecting it to a newly delivered power unit. Cady also performed the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling in Node-3 using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose, followed by the periodic changeout of the TOCA WWB  (Waste Water Bag).      [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.] FE-4 Dmitri Kondratyev conducted the routine verification of yesterday’s periodic IUS AntiVirus scans on the Russian VKS auxiliary (non-network) laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p, RSK2 & RSE1 which are not loaded from the ground.      [Regularly on Mondays, automatic virus definition file updates are verified on the RSS2, RSS1, RSK1-T61p & RSK2 laptops, while the non-networked laptops RSE-Med & RSE1 are manually updated.  Antivirus scans are then started & monitored on RSS2 & RSE-Med.  Results of the scans on RSS1, RSK1-T61p, RSK2 & RSE1 are verified on Tuesdays.  Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p & RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.] In preparation for their return on Soyuz 24S next week (3/16), Scott Kelly, Alex Kaleri & Oleg Skripochka donned their Sokol pressure suits and conducted the standard leak checking, a 45-min job.  After doffing the suits, Sasha & Oleg set suits and gloves up for drying and then stowed the gear. Kondratyev conducted the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the “bake-out” cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated at ~3:45pm EST before sleep time.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday.      [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days.  (Last time done: 2/14-16).] FE-4 also removed the four Lulin-ISS radiation dosimeters from their exposure locations and downloaded their accumulated measurements.       [The new Lulin-ISS kit with four dosimeters (201, 202, 203, 204) with its BUI Interface Control Unit behind panel 121 had been set up on 3/4 for battery charging and a preliminary data dump from the RSS1 laptop via the BSMM Multiplex Bus Synchronization Unit/computer.  Lulin-ISS is a part of the complex Matryoshka suite designed for sophisticated radiation studies.]  Afterwards, Dima completed the periodic Russian SPOPT (Fire Detection & Suppression System) maintenance, today in the MRM1 Rassvet module, by dismantling its IDZ-2 smoke detectors, cleaning their ionizing needles and then reinstalling the sensors.    [Part of the job is to inspect surrounding areas behind panels and to clean those surfaces and the inlet grille with microbial growth wipes.] Nespoli serviced the FIR FCF (Fluids Integrated Rack / Fluids & Combustion Facility), changing out the Bio sample with new sample #4 from the Bio kit.     [Activities included opening the rack doors, rotating the LMM SBA (Light Microscopy Module / Spindle Bracket Assembly) from the Operate to Service position and removing the used sample from the Bio Base for return to the Bio kit.  With a new sample from the kit installed, the SBA was rotated back to Operate, the upper & lower FCF rack doors were closed, and POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center/Huntsville) was notified that the rack was ready for RPC (Remote Power Controller) activation.  The LMM-Bio experiment is designed for autonomous operation through scripts and ground-based commanding.  Crew time is required for the initial installation and check out in the FIR, sample change out, and removal from the FIR.] Later, Paolo joined with Cady Coleman in a 1-hr task of removing stowed cargo in Node-2 from bay D2 to the Forward area to provide access to clear the hatch preparatory to the HTV2 (H-II Transfer Vehicle) relocation to the nadir port on 3/10.     [This is part 1 of the temporary cargo shuffling.  Part 2 will move the cargo to a long-term stowage area which is TBD.]  Scott, Alex & Oleg had an hour each set aside for personal crew departure preparations; these are standard pre-return procedures for crewmembers. Scott Kelly set up the equipment for his next 24-hr urine collection for the NUTRITION/Repository protocol, to begin tomorrow morning and continuing for the next 24 hrs.     [Generic blood & urine procedures are used which allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.  Urine samples go into MELFI within 30 minutes after collection.  Every individual urine/blood sample tube must be labeled with time of void and Crew ID.  Barcodes can be called down, placed in crew notes or the barcode reader can be used.  For the blood draw, there is a prior 8-hr fasting requirement, i.e., no food or drink, but water consumption is highly encouraged to ensure proper hydration.  Exercise should not be conducted during the 8 hrs prior to the blood draw.] Dmitri configured the pumping equipment with the electric compressor (#41), emptied the BV1 Rodnik water storage tank of Progress 41P (#409) for use as condensate water, and then replaced the usual A-R water transfer hose with a T2PrU air line and started the standard bladder compression & leak check of BV1, to get it ready for urine transfer.     [Each of the spherical Rodnik tanks BV1 & BV2 consists of a hard shell with a soft membrane (bladder) composed of elastic fluoroplastic.  The bladder is used to expel water from the tank by compressed air pumped into the tank volume surrounding the membrane and is leak-tested before urine transfers, i.e., with empty tanks, the bladders are expanded against the tank walls and checked for hermeticity.] Dima also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.       [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Oleg handed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Working periodic maintenance on the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), FE-6 evacuated its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition & sensor calibration.  Cady also performed the periodic inspection of the recently added rope knot of the ARED’s exercise rope for fraying or damage in the strands. In the first of several handover segments, Alex Kaleri had ~1 hr to provide crew handover information to Dmitri Kondratyev for Increment 27, the only Russian remaining on ISS after Soyuz 24S departure next week until the arrival of Soyuz 26S with Borisenko, Garan & Samokyutayev on 4/1.  Meanwhile, Skripochka had 3 hrs reserved for starting the stowage process on Soyuz 24S, loading trash & other discarded stuff in the BO Orbital Module which will be jettisoned shortly before atmospheric entry. At ~8:45am EST, Scott & Cady had their regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists. FE-5 & FE-6 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Paolo at ~9:50am, Cady at ~12:25pm. At ~6:45am, Paolo powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 6:50am conducted a ham radio session with students at ICS "Marco D'oggiono", Oggiono, Italy. At ~8:19am, Cady turned on the amateur radio gear and at 8:24am conduct a ham radio session with students at Schulhaus Dorf, Richterswil, Switzerland. The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1/2x, FE-2/2x, FE-4), and ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6). MT Translation:     At 8:45am-10:45am, the Mobile Transporter was moved by ground control on its rails from WS3 (Worksite 3) to WS5 in preparation for HTV2 relocation from Node-2 Zenith to Nadir scheduled for 3/10 (Thursday).   Russian thrusters were disabled during this time, and no unisolated exercise was allowed (e.g., VELO). No CEO targets uplinked for today. 