03-02-2010March 02, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 03/02/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  At wake-up, FE-1 Suraev did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters tonight before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  CDR Williams & FE-6 Creamer continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), donning their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Williams, Noguchi & Creamer also completed another Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  A total of 121 RST runs are assigned to Jeff for the duration of his orbital stay.]  FE-4 Kotov configured the equipment for his second onboard session with the Russian experiment DYKHANIE (MBI-18, “Respiration”) and undertook the test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop and supported by ground specialist tagup.  Maxim took documentary photography.  Oleg then closed down the hardware and stowed it.     [Dykhanie-1 uses two body belts (PG-T/thoracic, PG-A/abdominal), a calibrator, resistor, mouthpiece, etc., to study fundamental physiological mechanisms of the external breathing function of crewmembers under long-duration orbital flight conditions.  During the experiment, physiological measurements are taken and recorded with a pneumotachogram, a thoracic pneumogram, an abdominal pneumogram, and pressure data in the oral cavity.  All experimentally derived plus salient environmental data along with personal data of the subject are recorded on PCMCIA (Personal Computer Memory Card International Association) card for return to the ground at end of the Expedition.  Objectives include determining the dynamics of the relationship between thoracic (pectoral) and abdominal breathing function reserves and their realization potential during spontaneous breathing, the coordinated spontaneous respiratory movements in terms of thoracic and abdominal components of volumetric, time & rate parameters of spontaneous respiratory cycle, identification of the features of humoral-reflex regulation of breathing by dynamics of ventilation sensitivity of thoracic and abdominal components to chemoreceptor stimuli, etc.  Overall, the experiment is intended to provide a better understanding of the basic mechanisms of pulmonary respiration/gas exchange gravitational relations of cosmonauts.]  In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Jeff Williams completed Day 2 of the ESA cardiological experiment CARD (Long Term Microgravity: A Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease), closing out the 24-hr urine collection protocol, performing the fourth & fifth rebreathing sessions and completing the blood draw in two tubes which he then centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge).  Afterwards, Jeff stowed the PFS (Pulmonary Function System), saved all the HLTA BP (Holter Arterial Blood Pressure) data on a PCMCIA memory card and reconnected the MPPL (Multi Purpose Payload Laptop) to its 120VDC outlet.      [After the second centrifugation, the two tubes were placed into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for the ISS) at -80 degC.  CARD includes three double rebreathing sessions yesterday plus two double rebreathings today.  Between these two rebreathings, the CDL HTA was activated to take BP measurements.  CARD was performed last by Japanese crewmember Koichi Wakata in May 2009 and before that by ESA crewmember Thomas Reiter in November 2006.  Astronauts experience lowered blood volume and pressure during space missions due to relaxation of the cardiovascular system in microgravity which may be a result from decreased fluid and sodium in the body.  CARD examines the relationship between salt intake and the cardiovascular system when exposed to the microgravity environment and explores whether blood pressure & volume can be restored to the same levels that were measured during groundbased measurements by adding additional salt to the crew’s food.  Results from this may lead to new health safety measures for astronauts to protect them on long duration missions.]  Maxim Suraev filled two new Russian EDV containers (assembled from bucket & lid components) with potable water from the Rodnik BV2 storage tank of Progress M-03M/35P, updating the IMS (Inventory Management System) with the new EDV lid ID numbers  Afterwards, the FE-1 completed the periodic service of downloading data files from the BU (Control Unit) of the running BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment in the SM (Service Module) for archiving on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinking NIKON D2X photographs of the growing plants in the LADA greenhouse.    [The archiving can take up to 5 hrs.  Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-16 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP), currently planted with Mizuna seeds.  Mizuna (Brassica rapa nipposinica) is a tasty variety of Japanese mustard greens, also known as California Peppergrass, eaten as a salad.]   In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-5 Noguchi worked several hours on the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) with the new Japanese experiment NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity), which he had set up yesterday.     [After detaching MEU A (Measurement Experiment Units A) from the CBEF’s Micro-G IU (Incubator Unit), FE-5 readied the G1 camcorder for documentary recording of activities, removed the temporary logger, checked the MEUs for leaks, mixed up the sample solutions by shaking their containment bags and re-inserted them into the MEUs.  After re-installing MEU A (4) and MEU B (2) in the CBEF, Soichi closed out the experiment and cleaned up.  JAXA’s NANOSKELETON (a coined word for new-functional nano-materials) intends to clarify the effect of gravity on oil flotation, sedimentation and convection on crystals generated in micro-G.  NANOSKELETON is one of the micro-G experiments conducted by JAXA for industrial application.  In the experiment, the TiO2 (titanium oxide) “nanoskeleton” is synthesized with a mixture of CTAB surfactant solution and TiOSO4-H2SO4 solution under isothermal conditions (40 degC), to quantitatively investigate the effects of gravity during a chemical reaction process.  The experiment uses oil (TMB) to enlarge the pore size of the honeycomb structure; therefore, this experiment will attempt to clarify the effects of gravity such as the flotation of oil and convective flow, by evaluating the retrieved samples.  Experiment output on orbit consists of the temperature samples plus images.]  Later, Noguchi configured the RoBOT (Robotic Onboard Trainer) for a training run, using it to simulate SFA (Small Fine Arm) transfer on the JEMRMS (Robotic Manipulator System).  Soichi also installed a W212 network (Ethernet) cable between the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) data feedthrough and the MLC (MSG Laptop Computer) at its E-NET port, later activating the MSG facility for payload ops after a visual inspection.  Williams, Creamer & Noguchi completed the regular monthly session (Jeff’s third, TJ’s & Soichi’s first) of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh their CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on airways issues for Jeff, eye treatment for TJ & nosebleed for Soichi.  [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]   In the Node-3, FE-6 Creamer replaced the starboard PPRV (Positive Pressure Relief Valve) with an MPEV (Manual Pressure Equalization Valve), a late-added task that had been overlooked during Node-1/Node-3 vestibule outfitting during the 20A docked period.  Due to the incorrect configuration for the vestibule, yesterday’s planned IMV (Intermodular Ventilation) airduct removal and vestibule depressurization for fine leak checking was deferred to today as a late addition to CDR Williams’ work schedule, pending successful installation of the MPEV.  In the Soyuz TMA-17/21S crew return vehicle, docked at the FGB nadir port, Oleg Kotov completed the periodic cleaning of the screen of the BVN air heater fan assembly in the spacecraft’s Orbital Module (BO).  Later, Oleg performed maintenance on KOB-1 (Loop 1) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, using the Elektronika MMTs-01 Multimeter to troubleshoot an incorrect autoswitching issue by the usual process of elimination, i.e., measuring connectivities & resistances on the wiring of the 3SPN2 replaceable pump panel, followed by several hours of testing with demated & reconnected switching unit (K-90) connector, using a spare K-90, and powering down a PST-90 adapter unit.  While the tests went on, Kotov also collected water samples from the BRP-M (Modified Water Distribution & Heating Unit) in the SM, after flushing out its warm port valve (TEPL) several times with water from an EDV container and catching it in a second EDV.  The samples were then drawn in two drink bags for return to Earth.  Later, Oleg worked in the DC1 Docking Compartment, preparing equipment and tools for tomorrow’s scheduled replacement of a PAS replaceable unit panel (52YuPAS) of the TCS (Thermal Control System) because of a failed pump unit.  Oleg also removed panels to familiarize himself with the valve arrangement, supported by ground specialist tagup.   Starting a new round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, Suraev used a vacuum cleaner and soft brush to clean the detachable VT7 fan screens 1, 2, and 3 of the three SOTR gas-liquid heat exchangers (GZhT4) in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok), later cleaned interior closeout panel vent screens (panels 201, 301, 401), then moved on to the DC1 for replacing the PF1, PF2 dust filters and clean the V1, V2 fan mesh screens.  Afterwards, Max completed a periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]  In the SM, the FE-1 performed a log file dump to the ground from the RS1 laptop for ground analysis of the MRM2 “Poisk” module’s TVU1 Terminal Computing Device and MIM Multifunction Indicator Panel.  FE-6 Creamer had another hour for more return cargo prepacking for 19A.  Afterwards, TJ Creamer –  Worked on the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), replacing both cable arm ropes,Performed the periodic maintenance & visual inspection of the ARED rails & rollers, greasing the Y- and Z-axis rails & rollers and evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration,Prepared his CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation) PCMCIA storage card by transferring automated CEVIS protocols and header files to it, andUndertook his first standard 30-min Shuttle RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) onboard skill training, using D2X digital still cameras with 400 & 800mm lenses to take Earth Observation imagery from Windows 6 or 8 in the SM, with 40-50% overlap and about 20 images in each sequence.  Afterwards, TJ downlinked the obtained photographs for ground analysis.     [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the Shuttle (STS-131/Discovery/19A) next month.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Discovery, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]  CDR, FE-1 & FE-4 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Oleg at ~9:05am, Jeff at ~11:05am, Max at ~12:25pm EST.  At ~11:35am, Williams, Creamer & Noguchi participated in a PAO TV event with students and teachers at Mueller Aerospace and Engineering Discovery Magnet School in Wichita, KS.  At ~3:30pm, Williams is scheduled for his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR), TVIS treadmill (FE-1/2x, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive device (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6).  METOX Anomaly:   When METOX (Metal Oxide) canister #005 & #007 regeneration was to be terminated in the Airlock yesterday, it was found that the regeneration process had gone on with an erroneous valve setting (“CO2 Removal” instead of “Regen”).  No out-of-configuration indications or error messages were reported.  The two affected cans, last used for EVA overnight campout during STS-130/20A, have been stowed for the time being as ground specialists are analyzing whether additional regeneration or other further action is required.  Cupola RWS Status:   Due to the crew’s inability to install a protective boot on the Cupola RWS (Robotics Workstation), its planned relocation from the Lab to the Cupola is still on hold.  Assessment efforts on the ground are underway, requiring more onboard pictures.   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Chiloe Island, southern Chile (HMS Beagle Site:  Darwin and the Beagle arrived at this island on June 12, 1834, but after gathering provisions and surveying the west coast, departed the following day.  Darwin hated the place because it never stopped raining!  Looking for this large, rugged and forested island as ISS approached the southern coast of Chile from the NW.  It was mid-morning with fair weather conditions expected for this near-nadir pass.  Trying for context views of the island as a whole), Maseru, Lesotho (the capital city of Lesotho has a population of almost a quarter of a million and is situated in the northwestern foothills of the Maluti Mountains at the country’s border with South Africa.  ISS approach was from the SW in mid-afternoon with partly cloudy conditions expected.  Its track was along the border with generally agricultural areas to the left of track and more rugged less developed land to the right.  Looking near nadir for this target), Santiago, Chile (DYNAMIC EVENT:  The devastating 8.8 magnitude earthquake this past weekend will make the cities and coastal areas of Chile an ongoing target for ISS CEO photography in the coming days.  Today’s best pass offered a nadir pass over the heavily damaged capital city of Santiago.  As ISS approached the coast from the SW, the crew was to look right of track and map northward along the coast from near Concepcion to nadir and then inland towards and over Santiago.  ISS had a mid-afternoon pass in fair weather and any other views of the region as a whole should have been useful).  