03-05-2011March 05, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 03/05/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    FD10 (Flight Day 10) of STS-133/ULF-5.    Saturday – light-duty day. Sleep cycle shift:  Crew wake/sleep cycle continues to shift, returning to “normal” on 3/8.Current schedule for ISS crew (EST): DateWAKESLEEP3/53:23am6:53pm3/63:23am6:53pm3/73:23am4:33pm3/81:00am4:30pm FE-6 Cady Coleman collected her first dry saliva samples of the biomed experiment INTEGRATED IMMUNE, five samplings of 1 min each spread over the day – upon waking (before eating, drinking, or brushing teeth), then 30 min, 6 hrs & 10 hrs after waking and before retiring/sleep.      [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples & analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned on the Shuttle so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.] Also early in the morning, FE-5 Paolo Nespoli collected body samples from Cady Coleman, MS-3 Mike Barratt & himself in support of the JAXA experiment MYCO (Mycological Evaluation of Crew Exposure to ISS Ambient Air), then inserted the specimen into MELFI-3 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) at +2 degC for preservation.      [MYCO evaluates the risk of microorganisms via inhalation and adhesion to the skin to determine which fungi act as allergens on the ISS.  MYCO samples are collected from the nasal cavity, the pharynx and the skin of crew during preflight, in flight and postflight focusing particularly on fungi which act as strong allergens in our living environment.  Before sample collection, crewmembers are not to eat or drink anything except water, nor wash their face, brush their teeth, or gargle after you wake up to avoid science loss.] Alex Kaleri terminated overnight (10-hr) charging of the KPT-2 Piren battery for the Piren-V Pyro-endoscope, part of the Russian BAR science instruments suite (other BAR components being the ТТМ-2 Anemometer-Thermometer, the charger cable, and the video display unit). CDR Kelly spent most of his day working with the ground on OGS (Oxygen Generation System) maintenance in Node-3, flushing the system after cooldown, installing a filter system to scrub the OGS Recirculation Loop water, drawing two samples, one for future conductivity (pH value) measurements by the crew, the other for return to the ground, then removing the temporary filters, installing an adapter to gather pressure data, and closing up after leak checks.       [The activity was intended to provide pre- and post-filtration samples and pressure data for developing a long-term remediation configuration to remedy the low pH issue of the recirculation loop which limits the OGS running time.  Because the delta-pressure sensor in the water pump assembly is failed, pump current is being adjusted from the ground to keep maximum delta-pressure below maximum value. ]  FE-6 Coleman changed the N2 (nitrogen) supply setup for supporting the OGS activities, then also reconfigured the O2 (oxygen) transfer valving to provide Shuttle O2 to the ISS high-pressure tanks only. Afterwards, Cady joined Shuttle crewmembers Steve Lindsey, Eric Boe, Nicole Stott & Al Drew in major reconfiguration/outfitting activities in the new PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) attached at Node-1 nadir.       [Focus for today was on dismantling four RSPs (Resupply Stowage Platforms (removal of fences/struts), unbolting two ISPs from the PMM, installing a ZSR (Zero-g Stowage Rack) from COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) F2 in PMM, plus cargo moves to reduce the overall clutter on ISS.  General stowage moves for the crew include PMM endcone cleanout, ULF5 unpacking, HTV-2 cargo unloading (4 parts), EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) & PDGF (Power & Data Grapple Fixture) relocation, Node-2 D2 partial cleanup, JPM (JEM Pressurized Module)  A5 rack front cleanup, RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) consolidation & relocation.] FE-5 Nespoli performed maintenance on the Lab CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly) to identify & isolate the electrical short from the primary heaters to the chassis that caused the prime heater string malfunction on 2/28.      [Paolo took resistance measurements on the Bed 202 housing connection after cutting and insulating the power wires to the failed prime heater.  The CDRA continues to work nominally on the secondary heater string.  The second CDRA, in Node-3, is performing nominally after the replacement of its 202 Bed by Scott & Cady on 3/3.] With the Lab camcorder set to provide live coverage, Nespoli serviced the FIR FCF (Fluids Integrated Rack / Fluids & Combustion Facility), replacing the Bio specimen with a fresh sample from slot 3 of the Bio kit.     [Activities included opening the rack doors, rotating the LMM SBA (Light Microscopy Module / Spindle Bracket Assembly) from the Operate to Service position and removing the used sample from the Bio Base for return to the Bio kit.  With the new sample installed, the SBA was rotated back to Operate, the upper & lower FCF rack doors were closed, and POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center/Huntsville) was notified that the rack was ready for RPC (Remote Power Controller) activation.  The LMM-Bio experiment is designed for autonomous operation through scripts and ground-based commanding.  Crew time is required for the initial installation and check out in the FIR, sample change out, and removal from the FIR.] Later, Paolo undertook the transfer of joint mission books from the Shuttle over to ISS.     [The new Warning books, contained in a Ziploc bag and CTB (Crew Transfer Bag), include the SODF (Station Operations Data Files) procedures for the docked mission and emergency situations.  Paolo gathered and trashed 3 old ULF4 books (from Lab, SM & FGB), then deployed 3 new ULF5  books in their places.] Afterwards, FE-6 relocated the VSW (Video Streaming Workstation) from Node-2 to the U.S. Lab to support the upcoming HTV2 (H-II Transfer Vehicle 2) relocation robotics, and stowed excess equipment. Cady Coleman took documentary photography of the latest MDS (Microbial Detection Sheet), #6, of the JAXA Microbe-2 experiment in its Ziploc bag with yeast and mold, then inserted it in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) at 4 degC. In the SM (Service Module), FE-2 Skripochka performed the daily monitoring of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment which is taking structural dynamics data during the Shuttle docked phase.  The data were later copied from the BUSD Control & Data Gathering Unit to a USB-D-M-3 stick for downlink to the ground.  The BUSD archive was then deleted and the DAKON-M restarted.       [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.] Scott Kelly conducted routine service on the WRS (Water Recovery System) by offloading the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) storage tank from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Auxiliary port to a CWC-I (Contingency Water Containers-Iodine) bag.  The PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) could not be used during the offloading.      [Estimated offload time: 23 min.] After first flushing the sampling gear, the CDR collected one urine specimen from each available Russian EDV-U urine container for return to Earth for analysis.     [Deferred from yesterday.] Dmitri Kondratyev concluded his 2nd session of the standard 24-hour ECG (electrocardiograph) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2 protocol, started yesterday.      [After the ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system, Dmitri doffed the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads over the past 24 hours, recording data on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results were then downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data were downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.] FE-1 Kaleri performed the (currently daily) checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways which is especially important when the ventilation/circulation system has to cope with a larger crew on board, currently twelve persons.       [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1]. Alex also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.       [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Kelly & Nespoli filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).      [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.] At ~10:08 am EST, Cady Coleman downlinked a PAO TV message of congratulation to POC (Payload Operations Center) at NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, AL, on its 10th Anniversary.    [“Greetings to all of you at the Marshall Space Flight Center.  I’m Expedition 26 Flight Engineer Cady Coleman aboard the International Space Station.  My crewmates and I wanted to take a moment from our work up here to wish all of our friends and colleagues at the Payload Operations Center congratulations on the achievement of the 10th anniversary of your magnificent facility.  Since March of 2001, you have provided 24/7 support to us here on the station. And we’ve come to rely on you – from training us before our mission - to planning our science activities and ensuring they are carried out every day. Your work is invaluable to us. The ISS is a world class scientific laboratory like none other. The science is world-class and so are you.  Our sincerest thanks to you for a job well done and we look forward to the next 10 years.  Congratulations again and have a great anniversary.”] The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6) and TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1/2x, F-2, FE-4) and ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6). Vozdukh Update:   The Russian Vozdukh CO2 scrubber failed again overnight due to overheating of the pump.  The crew removed some noise-reducing padding and Vozdukh is now back up and running.     [This pump was not replaced as part of the Vozdukh BOA R&R this week.  CO2 remained at ~3 mmHg everywhere while Vozdukh was down.  Vozdukh is running in a lower mode (manual mode 4) to manage the heat load.  If Vozdukh fails again today, the preferred mitigation option would be to accelerate the pre-sleep Shuttle LiOH change-out by a few hours.] Transfer Status:   Middeck transfer ahead of schedule with 89% complete:  Resupply 97%, return 81%;  ~108 lbs O2 transferred tank to tank; 26 lbs N2 transferred tank to tank.  Mission Timeline Look-Ahead:Mar 6 (FD 11) Final transfers, crew off duty time, hatch closure (3:48pm EST)Mar 7 (FD 12) Undock, flyaround, late inspection, OBSS berth Mar 8 (FD 13) Orbiter FCS checkout, RCS hot fire, cabin stowageMar 9 (FD 14) Deorbit and Landing (nominal landing). Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Six -- Week 15. 2D NANO Template (JAXA):    No report. 3D SPACE:    No report. AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report. ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete. ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     No report. APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report. APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report. BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):      “We didn’t expect to see crystals forming in BCAT-5 sample 9 (according to the PIs, Chaikin and Hollingsworth at NYU) until about now.  It is quite exciting that this new way of growing crystals from seeds may be working!  Any pictures taken now will show us the results of growing crystals from “seeds” placed on the walls.  This technique should cause heterogeneous nucleation, i.e. lots of little crystals, as opposed to homogeneous nucleation without seeds, which produces a few big crystals.  What we need next is to record what angles are best for observing (photographing) the crystals when they do form.  This will allow us to restart the experiment later with the camera placed in the correct position for capturing the evolution of the crystals grown from “seeds”, a.k.a “nanodirt”.  The initial sample homogenization pictures which prove that the sample has been well mixed, along with the new pictures of crystals, will be valuable for our journal publications. Can you tell that we’re jumping up and down with excitement?  Thank you!” BIOLAB (ESA):    No report. BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):     No report. BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report. BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report. CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for   Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report. CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete. CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   CB cleanup in the Saibo Rack was performed on 12/22. CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:      No report. CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report. CERISE (JAXA):    No report. CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):      No report. CFS-A (Colored Fungi in Space-A, ESA):   “Scott, many thanks for the photography sessions of the biocontainers.  We got immediate feedback from the science team after the 1st session; they liked very much your pictures.  We are awaiting their feedback for the 2nd photo session.” CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing. CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete. CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:     No report. Commercial (Inc 23&24, JAXA):     This plantlet seeds bag was launched by ULF4, and it will be recovered by ULF5 with Commercial (Inc 25&26). Commercial (Inc 25 & 26, JAXA):  This plantlet seeds bag is a retry from the Inc 3/24 mission.  A historical photo was taken during STS-133.  It will be recovered by ULF5 with Commercial (Inc 23&24). CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report. CsPins (JAXA):      CsPins planned runs (#2-3,2-4,2-5) were moved to Inc 27 / 28 (before ULF7 Docked). CubeLab:    CubeLab Module-10 has completed its Data Collection runs, and is awaiting return to Earth on 24S.  The PD is still analyzing the results of the plant growth experiment, and will fully investigate the science stored in the payload's internal memory after return.  In total, over 1100 files were collected over the course of the four week experiment. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete. DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS, ESA):    Acquiring science data with DOSTEL-2 detector. EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report. EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report. ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.  EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    No report. ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report. EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD. EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Hobbies):      No report. EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Kids in Space):   No report. EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report. EPO GREENHOUSE (ESA):   “Paolo, thanks for taking care of the EPO Greenhouse plants! Additional information on the EPO Greenhouse project is provided in the next tab, labeled ESA EPO Greenhouse.“ EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    No report..EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report. EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report. EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15. EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete. EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report. EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    The Message In Bottle session was completed during EVA-1 on FD5.  During the EVA photo session, the song "Message in a Bottle" by The Police, was played.  Alvin Drew and Steve Bowen took a photo of the bottle with JEM and HTV in the background.  The packing and transfer for return was completed on FD6. Upon return, this bottle will be shared with the people of Japan in a children's museum. EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report. EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report. EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete. EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report. EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report. EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   This task is scheduled on 3/9 (fam) and 3/10 (execution). ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]   No report. ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed. FACET-2 (JAXA):   No report.  FERULATE (JAXA):    No report. FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     “Paolo, thank you for all your hard work configuring Bio this week and for completing the sample change outs so efficiently. The camera view you set up during the Bio sample changeout is excellent! We are excited to see the worms so active! A short video of the Bio worms (C. elegans) was taken using the microscope’s 10x capability.  This was the first sample run of the Bio investigation.  Kudos to Dr. Jacob Cohen, Principal Investigator for Bio at NASA ARC, and the teams at NASA ARC and GRC for their outstanding efforts.  One interesting aspect of this is how a system designed for fluid physics (the FIR/Fluid Integrated Rack where the LMM resides) is now showing success in the observation of live/moving biological samples.  Another interesting fact is that some of the worms in Bio are descendants of worms recovered from the last flight of Columbia / STS-107.” Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132. FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report. FOCUS:    No report. FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):     No report. FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report. GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report. GEOFLOW:    No report. HAIR (JAXA):    No report. HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1. Hicari (JAXA):    No report. Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report. HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P. HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):     HICO has resolved the ground processing issues that occurred last week and will be processing the backlog of images already on the ground.  HICO is scheduled to image some of the Great Lakes, parts of Australia and the Sicilian Strait. RAIDS is continuing to collect secondary science.   HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):    The sample is scheduled to return on ULF5 Flight. ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete. ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):      “Cady, the hardware developer has reviewed the Cardiopres data from your first two sessions and believes there is no issue with the pump itself; however, the data do indicate that there could be an intermittent issue with the connection between the pump and the main unit. The Integrated Cardiovascular team has developed a couple of troubleshooting activities for the Cardiopres; as soon as crew time opens up, we will look to schedule them. We look forward to working with you soon!” IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete. INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report. InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report. IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report. ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     No report. IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.  KID/KUBIK6:    No report. Kids in Micro-G:    No report. KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report. LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report. Marangoni Exp (JAXA):    24th run was completed on 12/22. Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf. Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    No report. Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Acquiring science data in Kibo.  Looking forward to the return of the Matryoshka dosimeters on 24S. MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    No report. MDCA/Flex:    While we examine all possible failure scenarios for MDCA Needle 1, we plan to perform heptane test points using MDCA Needle 2 early next week. MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.  Microbe-2 (JAXA):    Sampling #1 (Retry) was performed and transferred to MELFI on FD4.  Sampling #2 was performed and transferred to MELFI on FD2.  Sampling #3 was performed and transferred to MELFI on FD5.  The remaining activity is photo session on FD9. Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete. MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report. MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally except for PEC B.  PEC B is powered off for remainder of MISSE-7 mission in order to preserve stored science data within PEC B.  MISSE-7 PEC A and PEC B will be retrieved on STS-134. MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4. MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report. MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report. MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”. MULTIGEN-1:   Completed. MYCO 3 (JAXA):    The Myco prep and sampling activities are planned for next week.  The Myco sampling must be performed within 60 hrs before hatch closing.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20. NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A. NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report. NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete. NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:     “Scott, with 4 of 5 sessions complete, your last session will be next week. Thanks for your participation!” PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report. PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    17 dosimeters (Area PADLES4) were replaced with 17 new dosimeters (Area PADLES5) on FD4.  The next activity will be the Photo session for Area PADLES5.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    “Scott, thanks a lot for finishing your second session last Tuesday. The science team received the full data set already.“ PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report. PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report. PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG. PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete. POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete. Pro K:     “Paolo, your 3rd ProK session was completed this week.  Your next session will be in Increment 27.” RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete. RadSilk (JAXA):    No report. RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Scott, Paolo and Cady:  We downlinked Reaction Self Test data from the past month on 3/1 and we look forward to reviewing it.  As a reminder, Reaction Self Test is scheduled for morning and evening sessions on each scheduled day.  Thank you for continuing to participate in Reaction Self Test!” RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report. SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report. SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report. SAMPLE:    Complete. SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report. SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20. SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete. SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report. SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Scott:  We are targeting next week for your final week of Sleep logging.” SMILES (JAXA):   Recooling mode #13 continues. SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report. SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    No report. SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    SOLAR Sun Visibility Window #38 started on GMT 2/24.  The SOLAR measurements would have been impacted by the ATV-2 docking on 2/24, the ATV-2 reboost/thruster test on 2/25 and the ULF5 docking on 2/26.  However, smart planning of science runs made it possible to avoid losing any measurement opportunities. SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report. Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report. SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):     No report. SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA):    No report. SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.    SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    "Scott, thank you for voicing your concern over performing Spinal with other activities in the flight deck and for pointing out the exercise constraint. We have made note to not schedule Spinal during flight deck operations.  Scott, Paolo and Cady: Thank you for your participation in Spinal and we look forward to your ops next week!" SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report. TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report. THERMOLAB (ESA):    No report. TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned. TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report. ULTRASOUND:    Planned. VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report. VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring science data with NorAIS receiver.  On 3/2, a new set of command parameters was uplinked. VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    No report. VO2max (NASA):    No report. VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report. WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report. YEAST B (ESA):    No report. CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    No report. No CEO targets uplinked for today. 