
Payloads
Exploration Environmental Control and Life Support System: Brine Processor System (BPA): The crew routed the power cable to the BPA hardware. The BPA is designed to improve water recycling on the International Space Station and boost the efficiency of water recycling for the Artemis generation.
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS-3D): The crew installed and connected cables of a new DOSTEL-1 unit to the DOSIS main box. This spare unit is a refurbished unit that was flown on NG-15. International Space Station crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation which can be harmful to their health. DOSIS-3D uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS.
Investigation of Mechanism of Faceted Cellular Array Growth (Facet): The crew installed the Facet Cell into the Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF). Then the crew removed the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) cable from the Ryutai Rack and connected the SCOF cables. Facet will investigate the phenomena at the solid-liquid interface for crystallization, especially for facet-like crystallization, which are considered to be strongly influenced by the temperature and concentration distributions in the liquid phase.
TangoLab Mission-20: The crew performed troubleshooting steps to resolve a connection issue of Card-18 in the TangoLab-1 facility but connecting the card with cube into TangoLab-2. The ground reported seeing good voltages on the card. Nitrogen Fixation of Leguminous Species in Micro-G (Symbiotic Leguminous Nitrogen Fixation) explores the effects of microgravity on the growth and development of legumes, plants capable of biological nitrogen fixation with symbiotic bacteria. Reduced nitrogen is an essential element of agriculture, but plants use only reduced forms of nitrogen. Knowing how microgravity affects the nitrogen reduction process is key to successfully growing plants on future missions.
The ISS Experience: The crew performed trouble shooting steps on the ISS Experience EVA Z-Camera by removing it from the JEM Airlock and examining and checking the pin connections with a multimeter. Observations were related to the ground. The ISS Experience is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station. Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed several activities in preparation for the ISS Upgrades III EVA. The crew configured EVA tools, reviewed procedures, and participated in a conference with the ground. Additionally, the crew completed On-Board Training (OBT) for the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) and practiced EVA cuff checklist procedures. The ISS Upgrades III EVA (United States On-orbit Segment EVA 72) is scheduled for Friday, March 5th.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Piping Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew performed an R&R of the piping between the pump separator and the dose pump. The piping is replaced every 6 months as part of preventive maintenance to ensure continued performance and preclude a functional failure.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement: As part of system health monitoring, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through selected ventilation inlets and outlets. Today’s measurements were taken in Node 3 prior to the BPA power cable routing and partial installation. 
Completed Task List Activities:

ARED Crank Handle Troubleshooting

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Crew-1 Dragon Monthly Wake-up and Checkout
JEMAL Commanding
JEMRMS File Operations
UTS Commanding for Recycle Tank Drain

