
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD):  The final 2 CubeSats were successfully deployed overnight which concludes deployment activities for this increment. A total of 16 satellites have been deployed.
Airway monitoring:  The crew reviewed information to familiarize themselves with the Airway Monitoring experiment.  Specialists on the ground were available to answer crew questions. To prepare for Friday’s measurements, Cristoforetti and Virts prepared the airlock by removing equipment, transferring and setting up Airway Monitoring hardware and configuring a video camera. The primary goal of the Airway Monitoring experiment is to determine how gravity and microgravity influence the turnover of Nitric Oxide (NO) in the lungs.  During future manned missions to the Moon and to Mars, airway inflammation due to toxic dust inhalation is a risk factor. Since dust may cause airway inflammation and since such inflammation can be monitored by exhaled NO (Nitric Oxide) analysis the present study is highly relevant for astronaut health in future space programs.
TripleLux-B: Cristoforetti performed troubleshooting steps on Monday to recover smoke detection in the Biolab facility. She removed & replaced (R&R) an Exchangeable Standard Electrical Module (ESEM) board in the Biolab that was suspected to be the issue, however, this did not solve the smoke detector problem. Today she R&Rd the unit with a refurbished ESEM board. When the rack was reactivated, the outlet tripped which is a new signature. A forward plan is being worked for next week’s planned activities.
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Diagnostics/Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) 1 Troubleshooting: In preparation for the Pump Module relocation scheduled for March 6-7, yesterday Ground Controllers positioned the SPDM and stowed RMCT2. They engaged launch locks on RMCT1 and successfully released its collets. The collets were cycled open and back to close one time for data collection.  Following review of preliminary data, the robotics team determined that having the launch locks engaged was affecting the data so no further cycles were performed.  Ground teams will plan further data collection activities. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


MORZE. Measuring Bioimpedance Using SPRUT-2. / r/g 8175
HRF Urine Sample Collection
ТК 715 Kazbek Fitcheck
Vozdukh Deactivation
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE  r/g 8171
TPLXB activities 
Periodic fitness assessment –nominal ops (subject)
Crew Departure Prep
Acoustic Dosimeter Setup for Static Measurements
Measuring the gap of the Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (JSSOD) Separation Mechanism
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor / r/g 8041
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
End of EMU purification cartridge regeneration
AIRMON. Airlock prep for monitoring
ТК 714 Packing with Hardware for Disposal / r/g 8096
Study of cardiovascular system under graded physical load on VELO
IDENTIFIKATSIYA. r/g 8177
Parameter settings for МRМ2 ТВУ update to Version 03.04.01. r/g 8166
NAPOR-mini РСА. БЗУ-М SW update r/g 8185
MRM2 [ТВУ] with New SW Version Restart,  r/g 8166
Report Soyuz 714 loading completion / r/g 8096
MELF3 – ice-pack install
Med ops CBT
AIRMON. Procedure review
Inventory and Stowage conference
MRM2 ТВУ SW Upgrade, / r/g  8166
MATRYOSHKA-R. Monitoring Lulin-5 readings / r/g 8172
HMS – food questionnaire
Psychological Evaluation Program (WinSCAT)
Charging GoPro HERO3 Camcorder Battery – start
AIRMON. Equipment Stow
Vozdukh Activation
Comm Config for MRM2
HRF Urine Sample Collection
МИМ2 Multifunction Indicator Panel (МПИ) Activation.
Comm reconfig to nominal
Electrical measurements in Soyuz 715 Descent Module r/g 8186
AIRMON. P/TV. Video Set Up
Closing USOS Window Shutters
HRF – sample insertion in MELFI
AIRMON. Camera and Hardware setup
HRM data transfer from iPad ISS server
MORZE. Closeout ops / r/g 8175
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill [Aborted]
Airway Monitoring Tagup
CMS HRM iPad download [Aborted]
Audiogram reading with EARQ
Post-PE hygiene ops
PAO [Aborted]
Charging GoPro HERO3 Camcorder Battery – end
Airway Monitoring PMC [Aborted]
Video camera GoPro HERO3 setup and Adjustment for ТК 714 Descent Operation
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor / r/g 8041
AIRMON. Hardware Deactivation 

Completed Task List Items

N2 IDA cable prep
ARED grip install
Emergency NH3 Measurement kit photo
Moon Imaging Stowage Relocate

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Airway Monitoring

