
Payloads:
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): Tools and materials were gathered, and specific harnesses were disconnected from the Electro-magnetic Laboratory (EML) modules in preparation for Gas Circulation pump removal and replace. The EML is a multi-user facility is designed for containerless materials processing in space. It supports research in the areas of meta-stable states and phases, along with the measurement of high-accuracy thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys at high temperatures.
International Commercial Experiment (ICE) Cubes: The Ice Cubes Media Set was installed, activated, and checked out. The set was the de-installed and stowed. The ICE Cubes Facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration or educational objectives. During flight, users are able to have near real-time telemetry and telecommanding capabilities with the Experiment Cube from any location with an internet connection. The ICE Cubes service provides fast and direct access to the ISS for any country, institute, or entity.
Smart1 (Intelligent Space System Interface Flight Qualification Experiment (iSSIFQE)): Smart One hardware was inspected and installed on the iSEEP (EFU Adapter-2) carrier on the JEM airlock slide table. The Intelligent Space System Interface Flight Qualification Experiment (iSSIFQE) demonstrates the ability of a standardized robotic connector, the iSSI, to transfer significant amounts of power, data, and thermal energy in space over an extended period of time. The iSSI units serve as connectors between two entities, both fixed-to-mobile and mobile-to-mobile, including robotic arms, satellites, and assets on the surface of the Moon. Standardization lowers the cost and increases the reusability and lifetime of space systems.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): Intelligent Glass Optics Hardware was installed in the MSG Work Volume. MSG internal cameras did not get completed and will be rescheduled. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth. 
Systems:
Virtual Reality Training (VRT) EVA Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER): As part of the EVA Prep, the EVA crew performed their SAFER training by utilizing the VRT equipment. This lesson provides a review of the SAFER components and procedures, as well as hands-on experience in a virtual reality environment using SAFER to perform self-rescue operations.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) In Flight Maintenance (IFM): The crew performed a manual WHC flush tank fill. By using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as the burp, they depressurized the flush water tank and water valve block to protect the dose pump. The pump is critical as it injects the pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review: In preparation for the iROSA Prep 3A EVA currently scheduled for March 15th, the crew completed the EVA Procedure Reviews and EVA Procedure Conference. The reviews cover several briefing packages, the detailed timeline procedure, a tool configuration summary, the Cribsheet, get-aheads, and cautions, warnings, and task data.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEM Airlock ST Extension to JPM Side
SPDM RRM MFT Unstow/Stow
Crew Dragon Awake Mode Checkout
JEM Airlock ST Retraction from JPM Side
JEM Airlock and ACDU-RC Deactivation/Activation
MBS POA LEE Inspection
JEM Airlock Depressurization and Vent
JEM EFU11 Motor Heater Activation
EFU11 Preparation for Mate
PRO RRM3 Heater Activation
MSS Maneuver to Park

