03-07-2010March 07, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 03/07/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday – crew day off.  Ahead: Week 15 of Increment 22.    At wake-up, FE-4 Kotov did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-4 again inspects the filters tonight before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   CDR Williams & FE-6 Creamer continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), donning their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   After breakfast, the CDR & FE-5 Noguchi supported the weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.     [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.]    FE-4 Kotov performed the usual leak checking on the now empty Progress M-03M/35P Rodnik BV2 water tank by setting up pumping equipment and initiating the compression of the tank bladder, monitoring air flow to check for hermeticity.     [Each of the spherical Rodnik tanks BV1 & BV2 consists of a hard shell with a soft membrane (bladder) composed of elastic fluoroplastic.  The bladder is used to expel water from the tank by compressed air pumped into the tank volume surrounding the membrane and is leak-tested before water transfer.]   In the new Node-3, Jeff Williams accessed the OGS (Oxygen Generator System) Rack for the monthly maintenance with the HOPA (Hydrogen Sensor ORU Purge Adapter), disconnecting the O2 outlet hose from the N2 (nitrogen) purge ORU and later, after the purging, reconnecting the H2 sensor and closing out the rack.   After Noguchi had set up the High Definition TV gear (G1 camcorder, MPC/Multipurpose Converter, IPU/Image Processing Unit), at ~4:45am EST the entire crew downlinked a video message of greeting, recorded on the ground, for the HOA (Heads of Agency) meeting taking place tomorrow in Tokyo/Japan.    At ~9:25am, the five-member crew downlinked two congratulatory PAO TV messages, one with greetings to Yuri Nikolayevich Koptev for his 70th birthday on March 13, the second to the participants and guests of the 37th International Social & Scientific Readings, to be held on March 9 in honor of Yuri Gagarin’s birthday (9 March 1934) at the town of Gzhatsk, near his birthplace, since renamed Gagarin.      [Yuri Koptev, well known and highly respected in the international space community, was for many years the Director General of Roskosmos.  Col. Yuri Gagarin was born in the little village of Klushino in Smolensk Oblast (province) and died in a crash of a MIG-15 test airplane near Chkalovsky airfield of today’s GCTC (Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center) at Star City where he was deputy training director at the time of his death.]   CDR, FE-4, & FE-5 had their weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Oleg at ~6:20am, Soichi at ~3:35pm, Jeff at ~4:10pm.   The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive device (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-4).   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  