
Crew-6 Launch: The Endeavour Crew launched at 11:34 PM CT Wednesday night from Launch Complex 39A at KSC on the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket. The Crew Dragon spacecraft will dock at approximately 12:17 AM CT Friday morning.
Payloads:
Sphere Camera-1 (SphereCam-1): The Solid State Drives were changed out from NanoRack’s Mainframe Alpha. SphereCam-1 uses a commercial off-the-shelf ultra-high resolution digital movie camera with a wide-angle lens to collect footage in microgravity and evaluate technical performance of the camera. Investigators plan to use the results to design and develop subsequent cameras for testing and, ultimately, provide a product that could support groundbreaking imaging of space with greater resolution, detail, and sharpness than anything currently available commercially.
Standard Measures: Today, crew completed a post sleep questionnaire. Spaceflight Standard Measures (Standard Measures) collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crew members until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and provide meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Systems:
Endeavour Crew Arrival Preparation: The crew prepared for the arrival of the Endeavor crew. The crew set up sleep stations for camping out during the crew handover, charged smart watches, organized food, supplies, and other preference items for arriving crew. The crew setup monitoring tools and relocated two Space Station Computers (SSC) to support the Crew-6 docking.
Stowage Operations: The crew performed stowage consolidation in Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to make space for stowage in the upcoming NG-19 launch. The crew also completed a Space Integrated Global Positioning System/ Inertial Navigation System (SIGI) audit and a Microgravity Sciences Glovebox (MSG) audit.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Walkoff to Lab PDGF
SSRMS Latching End Effector (LEE) High Definition Survey
ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain Support 3

