
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF):  Today the crew exchanged the sample cartridges within ELF to prepare for upcoming ground commanded operations.  The newly installed cartridge was found to be slightly misaligned and an activity is planned for next week to resolve the issue.  The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-6 (ACE-T-6): Today the crew cleaned the oil on the ACE module inside of the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) auxiliary fluids container and replaced the ACE module. The ACE-T-6 investigation studies the microscopic behavior of colloids in gels and creams, to provide new insight into fundamental interactions that can improve product shelf life. Colloids are suspensions of microscopic particles in a liquid, and they are found in products ranging from milk to fabric softener. Consumer products often use colloidal gels to distribute specialized ingredients (e.g., droplets that soften fabrics) but the gels must serve two opposite purposes: they have to disperse the active ingredient so it can work, yet maintain an even distribution so the product does not spoil. 
Veg-03:  The crew continued with the photo-documentation of plant growth for the Veg-03 investigation. They also watered the plants. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets. 
Tropical Cyclone: The crew configured the camera settings in the Cupola to support the capture of untended images tomorrow of Typhoon Hola east of Australia.  The Tropical Cyclone investigation is used to capture images of tropical cyclones and hurricanes that are rated at Category 3 or greater on the Saffir-Simpson scale. A pseudo-stereoscopic method is used to determine the altitudes of the cloud tops near the center (eye) of a cyclone by precisely tracking the apparent positions of cloud features with respect to the Earth and how those positions change over time as an observer (the ISS in this case) passes over the storm. The photographic images will be used to demonstrate that pseudo-spectroscopy can be used to measure the cloud altitudes to sufficient precision so that, when combined with other remote-sensing data, an accurate determination of the intensity of hurricane or cyclone can be made. 
NanoRacks Rock Candy:  The crew continued the ongoing photo-documentation of each Rock Candy pouch, showing any visible sugar crystal growth in each. This investigation teaches students about the effects of microgravity on crystal formations using nearly identical flight kits flown and operated onboard the ISS. With access to crew member videos and data on the same experiment, students are able compare crystal formations in space to those in their classrooms. The investigation aims to promote science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields to the next generation of students. 
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS): The crew captured images of the Hawaiian Islands.  EIISS captures a series of videos showcasing targets around the world as seen from the ISS. These videos will be integrated into a product for later release.
Space Headaches:  The crew completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation. This investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission. 
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicle (C2V2) Contingency Software Load Cable Install: Today the crew helped the ground teams perform the last step of the C2V2 R2 transition by mating the C2V2 Cont S/W Load Cable between SSC-17 and each of the two C2V2 Comm Units.  After the cable was installed the ground team completed the C2V2 R2 transition.  The C2V2 system is used for communication between USOS visiting vehicles and the ISS during the rendezvous, docking, and mated operations. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Li-Ion Battery Data Logging: Today the crew terminated a charging Autocycle of two EMU Long Life Batteries (LLB) with data logging. Over the course of three days, the Autocycle captured the battery health data required to determine if the expiration date of the LLBs can be extended by 10 months.
Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) Checkout:  Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm1 to grasp RMCT1. They then performed a checkout of this new RMCT1 (S/N 1002). Once the checkout had been completed, RMCT1 was removed from SPDM Tool Holder Assembly 1 (THA1). The SPDM was then reconfigured as required to use Arm2 to grasp RMCT2 and remove it from SPDM THA2. These operations were performed in preparation for the start of the P14B-G Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) replacement operations on GMT 73 (14 March 18). 
RPCM P14B-G Firmware Update and RPC Test:  RPCM (Remote Power Control Module) P1 4B-G is scheduled to be replaced by the SPDM on March 14.  In preparation for the R&R, updated firmware was uploaded to RPCM P1 4B-G to allow it to start up properly after being installed to a powered location.  Since the RPCM will be kept as a degraded spare, other RPCs on it were tested successfully to confirm that they will close.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
Portable air samples with Portable O2 Meter and CDM
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Power Up
Marangoni Inside (MI) Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) Cable Connection
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Cable Installation Activity Gather
iPad Air 2 Charge
Photography of ТП228 mockup temperature sensors on the external surface of MRM2
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Cable Installation Part 1
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Nitrogen gas QD connection
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Retrieval
Preventive Maintenance of SM Ventilation Subsystem. Group В2
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Sample Holder Retrieval
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Subject
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Cartridge Exchange
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Sample Holder installation
Earth Imagery from ISS Nikon Target Operations
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Installation
JEM Common Gas Support Equipment (CGSE) Gas Supply Stop
iPad Air 2 Food Intake Tracker (FIT) Update
СОЖ maintenance
RED Camera Setup.
ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
В3 Fan Screen Cleaning in MRM2
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Conclude
NanoRacks Rock Candy Imagery
VEG-03 Dual Facility Watering for each Plant Pillow
VEG-03F Plant Photo
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Changeout of ПФ1 & ПФ2 Dust Filters (МИМ1_ПБ_403_1, bag 437-13 (00072389R). Discard de-installed items. Update IMS) and Cleaning В1, В2 Fan Screens in DC1
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
Earth Imagery from ISS RED Target Operations
ACE Module Changeout
RED Camera Deactivation.
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
Miniaturized Particle Telescope  USB Reseat
Tropical Cyclone Untended Operations
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Cable Installation Part 2
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Terminate
IMS Update
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Cable Installation Activity Closeout
CONTENT. Experiment Ops

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


P14B_G RPC 11 Close Test
C2V2 R2 Transition
Standard Commanding

