
Payloads:
Acoustic Diagnostics: A crewmember performed Acoustic Diagnostics (AUDIO) measurements. The Acoustic Upgraded Diagnostics In-Orbit (Acoustic Diagnostics) investigation tests the hearing of ISS crew members before, during, and after flight. This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF-L): Gas sensors were replaced, and a backup power box was configured for use by the CBEF-L. CBEF-L is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original CBEF currently aboard the ISS. CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High-Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Colgate Skin Aging: A specified 6-Well Plate was retrieved from SABL-1 and installed into MSG for sampling and preservation of tissue samples. The Colgate hardware was then de-installed completing final operations of the Colgate Skin Aging experiment. Deterioration of skin tissue is a normal part of aging but occurs over decades. Microgravity leads to changes in the human body very similar to aging, but these changes happen much more quickly. Microgravity Effects on Skin Aging and Health (Colgate Skin Aging) uses a 3D model of engineered human skin cells to evaluate cellular and molecular changes in microgravity. These cells may serve as a valid model to rapidly assess products aimed at protecting skin from the aging process.
Electromagnetic Levitator (EML): A crewmember performed On-board Training (OBT) for the upcoming EML Gas Circulation Pump R&R. Electromagnetic Levitator (EML) is a facility composed of four inserts installed into the European Drawer Rack (EDR) for the electromagnetic levitation of samples. The experiment samples are installed in a dedicated Sample Chamber that is attached to EML, and can be replaced by new Sample Chambers for new experiment batches.
Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG): The LSG Front 10″ Gloves/Sleeves were changed out. The LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crew members can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Space Biofilms:  Space Biofilms BioCell sample Habitats were removed from cold stowage and placed into the LSG for initialization. The BioCell Habitats were then placed into SABL for incubation.  The Characterization of Biofilm Formation, Growth, and Gene Expression on Different Materials and Environmental Conditions in Microgravity (Space Biofilms) investigation characterizes the mass, thickness, structure, and associated gene expression of biofilms (molds) that form in space by analyzing a fungal species grown on different materials. Biofilm formation can cause equipment malfunction and human illnesses, and could be a serious problem on future long-term human space missions.
Space Tango – Cubelab Satellite Demo: Two CubeLab Satellites were removed from TangoLab, activated, and photo documented.  Space Tango – Cubelab Satellite Demonstrator tests a new attitude-control technology for small satellites, which is an integral part of future space missions. Conventional attitude control systems for large satellites are not suited for small satellites. The new technology is energy efficient, lightweight, and not subject to friction wear and could enhance the attitude maneuvering capabilities of small satellites.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): UNIGLO hardware was gathered, and procedures were reviewed. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth. 
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) 3004/3015 EVA Prep: The crew removed the lithium-ion batteries from the EMU Battery Stowage Compartment, and performed EMU water loop scrubs as well as acquired and tested water samples for conductivity on EMU units 3004 and 3015. Additionally, the crew installed the ORU Scrubber to scrub and iodinate the water lines. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop. The next activity performed by crew included an EVA Tool configuration, followed by water recharges on EMUs 3004 and 3015. The recharges ensure there is a full supply of fresh cooling water to each EMU suit. Additionally, the crew filled Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garments (LCVGs) with water from EMU water tanks.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Activities: IFM was performed to rotate the Lab Aft Rigid Elbow IMV Duct 180 to direct airflow into the Lab Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA). The crew then performed IFM for the Oxygen Generation System (OGS) to relabel the Caution Labels on the closeout panel to protect the OGS Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) Muffler Filter Block.
Completed Task List Activities:

AC Vacuum Reference Table Print

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEMRMS SFA Joint Zeroing and Deactivation
JEM Mode Transition from ROBO to STANDARD
MSS Powerup/Powerdown
SSRMS Walkoff
SPDM Unstow
PPS SARJ FDIR Configuration
MSS Hover Maneuver
MT Pre-Translation Check Out and Survey
MT Translation

