
Rodent Research (RR) Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Hardware Gather: Peake gathered hardware and consumables needed to set up MSG for RR operations which will begin following the arrival of SpX-8. Spaceflight causes a rapid loss of bone and muscle mass especially in the legs and spine with symptoms similar to those experienced by people with muscle wasting diseases or weakness in mice exposed to long-duration spaceflight (RR-3), studies molecular and physical changes in the musculoskeletal system that occurs in space. Results expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space, while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
Observation and Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS): Kopra installed and configured the OASIS hardware into the MSG for operations. Several issues were encountered and overcome via troubleshooting, including replacement of the Micro Camera to Monitor-1 cable to recover video feed to that monitor, and a software reboot to recover lens commanding.  Troubleshooting activities to resolve pneumatic commanding capabilities that were identified during the video checkout will precede the OASIS Gylcerol/Water Fill procedure which will begin the next science run tomorrow.   OASIS studies the unique behavior of liquid crystals in microgravity, including their overall motion and the merging of crystal layers known as smectic islands. Liquid crystals are used for display screens in televisions and clocks and they also occur in soaps and in cell membranes. The experiment allows detailed studies of the behavior of these structures and how microgravity affects their unique ability to act like both a liquid and a solid crystal.
Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition): Kopra completed the Cognition test battery which includes pre-test questions and cognitive tests with performance feedback. Cognition measures how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
NanoRacks Display Photos: Kopra took photos of the NanoRacks Monitor installed in the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) at Platform-1 as well as the NanoRacks Multi-Gas Monitor Liquid Crystal Display which will be used to assess and prioritize future NanoRacks activities. Platform-1 is used for modules that do  not need power. Data connectivity issues with Platform-1 began after SpX-4 unberth. The ground support team has been working to determine the cause and develop a solution.
 
Multi-Omics: Peake completed the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Multi-Omics investigation by collecting body samples and inserting them into a Minus Eight-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function by combining data obtained from the measurements of changes in the gut microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system.
 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Distillation Assembly (DA) Remove & Replace (R&R): The ground team has activated the UPA following this morning’s successful DA R&R.  The first process cycle is underway and is looking nominal.  The next planned process cycle will occur on GMT 069 Orbit 1, after the crew performs a WSTA Fill from a US urine EDV.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

MSG – Activation of MSG glove box
DA R&R
OASIS – Hardware Setup
VIZIR. Experiment Ops with СКПИ Hardware / r/g 1612
HAM radio session from Columbus
Transfer of IV-TEPC from SM (panel 328) to Lab
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter initialization and deployment r/g 1608
Multi Omics
Progress 431 (DC1) Transfesr and IMS Ops /  r/g 0947, 0963
OASIS – Hardware Setup
AQM 1005 – Troubleshooting
VIZIR. СКПИ Closeout Ops / r/g 1612
Soyuz 719 Samsung Tablet Recharge – Initiate
WRS Maintenance
Replacement of СО2 Filter Unit (БФ)
СОЖ Maintenance
PAO Hardware Setup
Crew Prep for PAO
PAO Event
Video Footage of Greetings / r/g 1609
WRS Maintenance
Soyuz 719 Samsung Tablet Recharge – terminate
Rodent Research (RR) – Equipment Gathering
NanoRacks Displays Photos
HAM radio session from Columbus
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Nutritional Assessment (ESA)
Private Medical Conference (Ku + S-band)
IMS Delta File Prep
VCA1 Camera Adjustment
Daily Planning Conference (S-band)
COGNITION – Experiment Ops

 
Completed Task List Items

WHC KTO replace

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal ground commanding

 
