
Space Headaches:  Peake completed his Weekly Space Headaches questionnaire today. Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
Space Acceleration Measurement System Sensor (SAMS)-II: Kopra moved the SAMS Sensor Enclosure from US Lab to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). SAMS-II is an ongoing study of the small forces (vibrations and accelerations) on the ISS resulting from the operation of hardware, crew activities, dockings, and maneuvering. Results generalize the types of vibrations affecting vibration-sensitive experiments. Investigators seek to better understand the vibration environment on the ISS.
 
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS): Kopra disconnected and stowed hardware used for the BASS investigation. BASS examined the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity and is used to guide strategies for extinguishing accidental fires in microgravity. Its results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status: Upon further investigation it was discovered that Quick Disconnect (QD)26 connected to the Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) was not fully mated. The crew mated the QD, the pressure dropped and UPA was taken to Standby. A process cycle was initiated followed by a recurrence of DA belt slippage. The DA transitioned to Shutdown. The UPA will be allowed to cool down prioir to another attempt.
ISS Reboost With 61 Progress (61P): A reboost is planned tonight at 10:15 PM CST using 61P thrusters. The reboost is to set up conditions for 46S 4-orbit rendezvous on March 19.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

VIZIR. Battery Charge / r/g 1593
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference / r/g 1581
SAMS: hardware transfer
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
Routine Maintenance of H2O valves [КН], Air Press Valves [КВ], and Drainage Valves [КД] in SM Rodnik Tanks
Columbus ETC (COL1D4) Pivot Pin troubleshooting
HMS Defibrillator Inspection
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (start) r/g 1595
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Dust Filter Replacement and В1, В2 Fan Grille Cleaning in DC1
Inspection of USB connector and PDH2 controller
Dust Filters and Cleaning В1, B2 Fan Screens in MRM2
ARED Exercise PHOTO/VIDEO Stowage
Dust Filter Replacement and MRM1 Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger (ГЖТ) Cleaning
Monthly Inspection of T2 Treadmill System
VIZIR. End battery charge / r/g 1593
Water Recovery and Management (WRM) – Condensate Pumping Initiation
VIZIR. Experiment Ops. Tagup with specialists / r/g 1601
ESA Weekly Crew Conference
Food Frequency Questionnaire
Terminate Condensate Pumping
WHS) Pre-Treat Tank and Pre-Treat Tank Hose R&R
QD Pressure Check [Aborted]
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Download data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (end) and start backup r/g 1595
VIZIR. Closeout Ops. Tagup with specialists / r/g 1601
СОЖ Maintenance
SSC23 Power Activation.
Respiratory Support Pack Checkout
BASS – Removal and Stowage
Consolidation of US Food Rations
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Connecting 46S and FGB SSC Laptop wireless clients
Closing USOS Window Shutters
MSG power off
Start EMU Metox Regeneration
SHD – Weekly Questionnaire
Closing covers on windows 6,8,9,12,13,14 r/g 6965

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted. 

ISS reboost

 
