
Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight (Energy): The crew completed urine collections for Day 6 of the 11-day Energy protocol, logging food and drink consumptions as well.  The Energy investigation measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge of energy requirements is of a great importance to ensure health, good performance and the overall success of a mission, and also contributes to ensure adequate exercise load and cargo allotments for food during space flight.
Body Measures: The Body Measures subject, with assistance from a trained operator, conducted Flight Day (FD) 105 Body Measures data collection session. The crew configured still cameras and video, collected the Neutral Body Posture video and stowed the equipment. NASA is collecting in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. Still and video imagery is captured and a tape measure is used to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments (chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) from astronauts before, during and after their flight missions.
Auxin Transport: The crew initiated the fourth Auxin Transport experiment. They injected water into the chambers to prep for incubation in the Measurement Experiment Unit (MEU). Auxin Transport is a JAXA sponsored study to clarify the role of the plant hormone auxin under microgravity conditions. Specialists hope to collect gene expression data, including levles and redistribution of the proteins for auto-morphogensis (differentiation of tissues and subsequent growth without an introduced stimulus) using corn plants as the plant organism model for Auxin Transport 4.
Node 3 (N3) Port Bulkhead Feedthrough Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew replaced three existing Bulkhead Feedthroughs on the Node 3 Port Bulkhead. This activity will provide a connectivity pathway for wireless payload data transmission and prepare for future utilization of the Node 3 Port location.
N3 Port Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Control Panel Assembly (CPA): The crew took photos of the Vestibule with CPAs removed to identify any interference issues with the CPAs folded. They also photographed the Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)3 starboard hatchway surface to reveal any interference issues with the Hatch Depress Indicator. They then performed a fit check of the N3 Port Aft CPA in a folded down position with connectors still mated.  The activity was performed to test a concept to save crew time for visiting vehicle operations in the future by folding the CPAs out of the way versus completely removing and reinstalling the CPAs. 
Onboard Training (OBT) – Emergency Response: During this OBT the 49S crew completed the following objectives for an ammonia leak scenario:

Practiced ISS emergency response with crew and ground roles based on information provided by simulator displays.
Physically translated through the ISS to the appropriate response locations.
Practiced procedure execution and associated decision making based on cues provided by the simulator.
Practiced communication and coordination with Mission Control Center-Houston (MCC-H) and MCC-Moscow as required.

Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

HRF Generic Urine Collection
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
ENERGY Diet Log of Breakfast
Symbolic Activity (Setup)
Activation of Orlan-MKC suit No.4.
Body Measures Experiment Operations
Ремонтные работы по установке накладных листов на панели интерьера СМ – подготовка
S/G2 MRM2 Comm Config
Activation of Orlan-MK suit No.5.
Photo TV Pressurized Mating Adapter 3 (PMA 3) Video Setup
Node 3 Port Bulkhead Feedthrough Remove and Replace
Removal of БРТА-2 from Orlan-MK No.5 backpack.
Node 3 Port Bulkhead Feedthrough Assist
Removal of БРТА-2 from Orlan-MK No.5 backpack.
SSC Device Reboot
HRF Generic Urine Collection Stow
Comm reconfig for nominal ops
Removal of БК-3М main enclosure from Orlan- МКС No.4 backpack.
Energy Urine Sample Collection
Installation of БРТА-2 on Orlan-МКС No.4 backpack.
Installation of backup БК-3М on Orlan-MKC No.4
ENERGY Water Sample
Gathering Orlan-MKC No.4 ORUs.
Energy Urine Sample Collection
OCT Setup
Auxin Transport Item Gather
24-hour ECG Recording (terminate)
24-hour BP recording (terminate)
ENERGY Diet Log of Lunch
APEX-04 Petri Plate Photo
Auxin Transport Sample Preparation
OCT Exam
Auxin Transport Sample Preparation
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Meas Exp Unit (MEU) Micro-G Attachment
24-hour ECG Recording (start)
Progress 435 (DC1) Cargo Transfers and IMS Ops
OCT Stow
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Node 3 Port Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Fitcheck
VIZIR. Experiment Ops.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Configuration
ISS HAM Radio Power Up
Centerline Berthing Camera System Pressurized Mating Adapter Target Installation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Training for Emergency Response On-board ISS
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
Pressurized Mating Adapter 3 (PMA3) Node 3 Port Hatch Close
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Indicator Position
Training for Emergency Response OBT
IMS Update
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Fundoscope Setup
MERLIN 2 Desiccant Swap
OBT ISS Emergency Drill Conference
Fundoscope Prep
Eye Exam – Fundoscope
Fundoscope Tear Down and Stow
ENERGY Diet Log of Dinner

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

JEMRMS SFA release, park
N3 MCA Full Calibration
Solar Array Maximum Power Evaluation
Temporary Lab CDRA Activation

