
SpaceX-27 (SpX-27) Docking: The SpX-27 Cargo Dragon docked to the ISS at 6:31 AM CT, delivering more than 6,200 pounds of cargo. Since its launch Tuesday evening, the spacecraft has successfully performed a series of maneuvers to setup today’s docking to the Node 2 (Harmony Module) forward port of the ISS.
Payloads:
Analyzing Interferometer for Ambient Air-2 (ANITA-2): Using a hand pump and air sampling bag, two air samples were collected and analyzed. The ANITA-2 is a compact gas analyzer which can analyze and quantify 33 trace contaminants in the atmosphere aboard the ISS automatically. ANITA-2 can also detect the presence of unknown substances which can be evaluated later on the ground.
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM): The memory card was removed from the APM, and its data was transferred to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for subsequent downlink. Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. APM demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air.  The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
Immunity Assay: Sample processing was performed, and the four-day science session was concluded. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test. Up until now, this test could only be accomplished on Earth, and conducted pre and postflight. With the help of a newly developed assay tube, researchers can also execute this test inflight, which allows for a much clearer assessment of the immune changes that happen in flight.
Standard Measures: Using the Data Collection Tool (DCT) on an available SSC, the crew answered a post sleep questionnaire. Spaceflight Standard Measures (Standard Measures) collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crew members until the end of the ISS Program to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Systems:
Transfer SpX-27 Cargo Operations: The crew removed payloads from the SpX-27 cargo vehicle such as: fresh foods, crew care packages, and new science experiments. SpX-27 is planned to remain docked to the space station until April 15th where it will depart from the ISS and splashdown off the coast of Florida.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew conducted routine maintenance to R&R the WHC UR and IF. As part of the R&R, the crew cleaned the WHC power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance. The UR On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) consists of a replaceable Russian-supplied funnel, urine hose, and a receptacle switch for turning the WHC on/off and the associated wiring.
Dragon Docking Activities: To support the SpX-27 docking, the crew completed dragon approach monitoring, pressurization, leak check, vestibule outfitting, and ingress. The crew opened the Node 2 Overhead (Forward) Hatch and APAS Hatch to ingress the Cargo Dragon Vehicle.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ) Unlock
HRF Rack 2 Rack Commanding
FIR Activation Commanding

