
Space Headaches:  Peake completed his Weekly Space Headaches questionnaire. Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Alignment Guide Removal: Peake installed three of four Alignment Guides on CIR to lock down the PaRIS hardware. Installing four guides causes an over-constrained condition and has the potential to damage to the Snubbers or other ARIS/PaRIS hardware. CIR provides sustained, systematic microgravity combustion research and it houses hardware capable of performing combustion experiments to further research of combustion in microgravity.
 
Common Communications For Visiting Vehicles (C2V2): Kopra completed this week’s C2V2 activities when he successfully installed two communications units. Health and status checks are currently scheduled for no earlier than March 28. A complete system checkout will occur at a later date, including a Radio Frequency (RF) system functionality check.
 
Robotic Onboard Trainer (RoBOT) On Board Training (OBT) Cygnus: In preparation for OA-6 arrival currently scheduled for March 26, Kopra and Peake completed an offset grapple session. Robotics and Visiting Vehicle teams were available for questions and/or feedback regarding procedures and operations.
 
Crew Provisions Relocate: Peake moved some crew provisions from Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)1 to Node 1 to clear space in the PMM for OA-6 cargo. He also photographed the contents of 2 pantries to verify bag fullness and usage rates for those items. This data will assist in manifesting decisions for future visiting vehicle.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference r/g 1626
C2V2 – Installation of Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Comm Units 1 and 2
IMS Tagup
Items Relocation in PMM, Part 2
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (start) r/g 1595
Installation and Testing of Updated SW on Laptop RS1 /  r/g 1634
CIR – Hardware Setup
Installation of Laptop RS2 SW Updates / r/g 1634
ESA Weekly Crew Conference
Installation and Testing of Updated SW on Laptop RS3 r/g 1634
LAB1P5 Robotic Workstation Reconfiguration after activities with C2V2
Installation and Testing of REMOTE RS LAPTOP S/W UPDATE r/g 1634
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Download data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (end) and start backup r/g 1595
IMS Delta File Prep
Closeout Ops after Installation of Common Communications Equipment for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) in Lab
OBT – Cygnus Rendezvous and Docking Conference
СОЖ Maintenance
PAO Hardware Setup
SHD – Weekly Questionnaire
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
Crew Prep for PAO
Progress 429 (SM Aft) Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 1484
PAO Event
External Wireless Communication (EWC) System  Installation -System Installation – Big Picture Words
Start the ROBoT simulation
Onboard Training (OBT) – Cygnus Robotics Review
Onboard Training (OBT) Cygnus Rendezvous Review
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHS) Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter Changeout
Flight Director / ISS Crew Tagup
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Nutritional Assessment (ESA)

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal ground commanding

 
