03-10-2010March 10, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 03/10/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  At wake-up, FE-1 Suraev did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which he had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters tonight before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also at wake-up, FE-4 Kotov terminated his 4th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  CDR Williams, FE-5 Noguchi & FE-6 Creamer completed another Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  A total of 121 RST runs are assigned to Jeff for the duration of his orbital stay.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  In preparation for the return with Soyuz 20S on 3/18, Suraev & Williams joined in fit-checking & adjusting their Kentavr anti-G suits, supported by a PMC (Private Medical Conference) with ground specialists at ~4:45am EST.    [The Kentavr (Centaur) garment is a protective anti-g suit ensemble to facilitate the return of a long-duration crewmember into the Earth gravity.  Consisting of shorts, gaiters, underpants, jersey and socks, it acts as countermeasure for circulatory disturbance, prevents crewmembers from overloading during descent and increases orthostatic tolerance during post-flight adaptation.  Russian crewmembers are also advised to ingest fluid-electrolyte additives, viz., three sodium chloride tablets during breakfast and after the midday meal, each time with 300 ml of fluid, and two pills during the meal aboard Soyuz before deorbit.]   In the FGB, Oleg Kotov spent ~2.5 hrs on supporting Part 1 of a  ground-controlled assessment of the module’s PSS (Power Supply System, Russian: SES/sistema elektrosnabzheniya), i.e., two 800A storage batteries along with PTAB-2 current converter and BUPT-2 RU converter control box.    [The task consisted of removing and temporarily stowing an 800A unit and installing a new 800A from stowage in its place.  There are six 800As in the FGB, eight in the SM (Service Module).]  Afterwards, the FE-4 prepared Progress 35P for next month’s disposal by filling depleted storage tanks in its Section 2 with inert gas (N2/nitrogen).   In the SM, Oleg installed new software (Vers. 03.02) for the MRM2 “Poisk” module’s TVU1 Terminal Computing Device on the RS1 laptop, then, after activating the KTsP2 (Central Post Computer 2), also on the RS2 laptop (later turned off again).  Noguchi & Creamer continued working in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) to establish full RMS (Robotic Manipulator System) operability with the transfer of the Japanese Robotics SFA (Small Fine Arm) through the Kibo AL (airlock) and its subsequent installation on the external SSE (SFA Stowage Equipment) on the JEF (JEM Exposed Facility) “porch”.      [Today’s activities by Soichi & TJ, all successful, involved depressurizing the JEM AL, opening its outer hatch, extending its ST (Slide Table) to the JEF side, followed by “flying” the MA to the ST, grappling the SFA and mating the Extendable Electrical Connector (SPEE) to it.  After the activation of the SFA electronics and heaters by the ground, Soichi & TJ operated the AL capture mechanism to release the SFA, unberthed it from the ST and maneuvered the RMS MA (Main Arm) with the grappled SFA to the SFA Deploy Position.  Noguchi then retracted the ST into the AL, closed the outer hatch, pressurized the AL and deactivated it.  Activities were monitored on the A31p laptop transferred yesterday by FE-5 temporarily from the Lab.  Russian thrusters were again disabled for the SFA ops from 9:20am-11:35am.  More to come tomorrow and Friday.]   In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Creamer closed the gas valves of the powered-down EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System), then deconfigured the MWA (Maintenance Work Area) after its TROPI2 (Analysis of a Novel Sensory Mechanism in Root Phototropism) operations were closed down yesterday by Williams, preparatory to a new run.     [The TROPI2 seedlings were reported to have germinated, grown and developed well, and payload operators on the ground have received numerous excellent data images.  Jeff’s activities included placing the samples into MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) for preservation and replacing the ECs (Experiment Containers) on the EMCS centrifuges A & B with different ECs for Run 2, for another six days.  TROPI studies Arabidopsis thaliana (thale cress) plants sprouting from seeds to gain insights into sustainable agriculture for future long-duration space missions.  The experiment investigates how plant roots respond to varying levels of light and gravity (0g to 1g), and analyzes the roots to determine which genes are responsible for successful plant growth in microgravity.]  Afterwards, TJ set up the MWA in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) for the regular service on the science payload APEX-Cambium (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit-Cambium), then harvested Run 3B plants of the TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System) experiment, chemically preserving the GFP (Green Fluorescent Protein) reporter gene plants for post-flight analysis.    [When completed, the APEX-Cambium payload will help in resolving two scientific questions: First, the CSA-sponsored Cambium experiment will determine the role of gravity in Cambium wood cell development (providing the pulp & paper and construction industries insight into the fundamental mechanisms of wood cell formation), and secondly, the NASA-sponsored TAGES will demonstrate non-destructive reporter gene technology & investigate spaceflight plant stress. APEX-Cambium provides NASA & the International ISS community a permanent controlled environment capability to support growth of various organisms (i.e. whole plants).]  FE-6 also initiated (later terminated) another 5-hr sampling run (the 76th) with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer).    [Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  Kotov completed the periodic transfer of condensate water to an RS (Russian Segment) EDV container for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen & (waste) hydrogen, filling the designated KOV (condensate water) EDV container (#896), today from another KOV-qualified EDV (#873) instead of CWC.  When filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.]  Wearing protective gear (goggles, surgical mask, silver shield gloves), CDR Williams took additional photographs of the failed PTU-T (Pre-Treat Urine-Tee)-valve for further troubleshooting of the valve on the ground.    [Previous photos seem to indicate that the retaining ring holding the valve piston to the handle has failed in some way.  The additional pictures are required to decide whether to fly spare retaining rings on 19A, to install on the T-valve, or a whole new T-valve.]   Jeff also had about an hour set aside to continue troubleshooting the failed WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment), down since 3/7 (Sunday), caused by either the WHC pump separator control unit, the ASU control panel or the UR (Urine Receptacle).    [To further eliminate items from the fault tree, Williams today demated the UR data connector plus the cables between the Pump Separator and its control unit to inspect for FOD (Foreign Object Debris), bent pins or other damage.  If a functional test of the separator afterwards was unsuccessful, Jeff was to replace the UR and Insert Filter with spare units (due to be changed out next week anyway).]  The CDR also completed the weekly offloading of the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) from WRS (Water Recovery System) Rack 1 into a CWC-I (Collapsible Water Container-Iodine) with the common H2O transfer hose (which took about 23 min) from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Auxiliary Port, then flushed the system.  With the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) continuing to run nominally, producing water from urine, Jeff later performed another fill of the UPA WSTA (Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly), from a Russian EDV-U (urine collector-water container), using an electric pump.  After performing an angle sensor check, Suraev activated the Russian DZZ-13 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) science experiment for another sun-glint observation session, using the hand-held spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor) from SM window #9, later downlinking data and removing the hardware.     [RUSALKA ops involve calibration and tests of research equipment relating to the Sun and the Earth's limb at sunset (atmosphere lighted).  To be tested are the procedure for remote determination of Methane (CH4) & Carbon Dioxide (CO2) content in the atmosphere (in the First Phase), measurement of CH4 & CO2 content in the atmosphere and reception of data on NI2 and NI4 content over the territories subjected to natural and technogenic effects, reception of sufficient data on seasonal dependencies of tropospheric parameters being studied (in the Second Phase).  Equipment used:  Rusalka monoblock, Nikon D2X(s) digital photo camera; AF VR Nikkor ED 80-400f/4.5-5.6D lens with ultraviolet filter, bracket for attachment to the window, and Rusalka-Accessories set.  Support hardware: Device TIUS /DKShG/PNSK, Laptop RSK1, and Software Package loading disk.]  The FE-1 completed the periodic tightening of the rigidizing QD (quick disconnect) screw clamps (BZV) of the docking & internal transfer mechanism (SSVP) on the interface between Progress M-03M/35P and the DC1 Docking Compartment.  Maxim also finished up the troubleshooting of the STTS intermodule communication channel (MBS) between the FGB and Soyuz TMA17/21S by re-installing the cargo container removed from Zone 30B behind FGB panel #421 on 3/5.     [The troubleshooting concerned a hard-line communications problem encountered between the two Soyuz spacecraft during the Depress Emergency OBT (Onboard Training) on 3/3.]  FE-6 Creamer completed the T+5 day visual analysis & data recording of air and surface samples with the surface slides and Petri dishes of the MAS (Microbial Air Sampling) & SSK (Surface Sample Kit) collected by him on 3/5.  CDR Williams continued prepacking cargo for his return on Soyuz 20S, including crew preference items (1.5 kg), 4 etymotic ear plug sets, three 0.5 half size CTBs (cargo transfer bags), 2 pairs of EMU gloves, plus blood & saliva samples.  In the US A/L (Airlock), Jeff terminated the maintenance discharge on EMU batteries #2086 in the BSA BC3 (Battery Stowage Assembly / Battery Charger 3) and #2087 in BC4.    [The periodic battery maintenance consists of fully discharging and then recharging the storage units to prolong their useful life.  After end of the maintenance cycle, Jeff will restore the SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop, which is used in DOS mode for the automated discharge procedure, to nominal ops.  In the early ISS years, these battery discharges/recharges had to be done manually.]  The CDR unstowed the 3 copies of the EMER-2 book (“Starting with ISS-20A”), from Lab, SM & FGB, and made P&I (pen & ink) updates to account for fire source locations in COL.  Jeff also unstowed an INTEGRATED IMMUNE saliva collection kit for himself and TJ.  They will use a “salivette” pouch from the kits for completing their saliva collections prior to 20S undock,- for return to Earth.     [Along with NUTRITION (Nutritional Status Assessment), INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples & analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned on the Shuttle so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]  Timothy Creamer undertook his second standard 30-min Shuttle RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) onboard skill training, using D2X digital still cameras with 400 & 800mm lenses to take Earth Observation imagery from Windows 6 or 8 in the SM, with 40-50% overlap and about 20 images in each sequence.  Afterwards, TJ downlinked the obtained photographs for ground analysis.     [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the Shuttle (STS-131/Discovery/19A) next month.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Discovery, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]  In preparation for the Shuttle arrival on 4/7, FE-6 also unlatched the Node-2 nadir hatch, to minimize possible effects of a hatch mechanism jam which would preclude opening the hatch for ingress during STS-131/19A.  FE-5 Noguchi performed the periodic inspection & cleaning of the FDS (Fire Detection & Suppression) bacteria filter and CD (Smoke Detector) in the Lab (after having completing this task for A/L, Node-1 & Node-2 on 2/26).    [There are 2 smoke detector units in the Lab, located at Stbd D5 & Port D1.]  The Japanese Flight Engineer also inspected the T2/COLBERT treadmill’s VIS (Vibration Isolation System) for its isolators, sorbothane lining of snubber cups and rack sway space.     [Engineering review of recent T2 data has identified an increase in both the frequency and magnitude of “bumping” between the Snubber Pin and Snubber Cup.  The severity of this bumping increases the likelihood of damage to both T2 and the station.  T2 use has therefore been constrained to speeds between 6-8 mph (9.7-12.9 km/h) only, until pin alignment verification and rack centering have been performed.]  The CDR conducted the periodic status checks and necessary maintenance of the CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5) payload.  Maxim completed a periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]  Suraev & Williams again had an hour each reserved for regular crew departure preparations, working on the standard end-of-increment cleanup preparatory to their return to Earth on 3/18.     [It is usual for crewmembers to be granted reduced workdays for making their departure preparations, as their return date approaches.]  In the SM, Oleg did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  The FE-4 also completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  The crew spent another ~30 min with the traditional Russian preparation of commemorative (“symbolic”) items of their residency aboard.    [The items consist of 60 envelopes which the Expedition 22 crewmembers signed according to an enclosed template, then stamped using a current date stamp of the Russian Post.  The items were packed in the Soyuz 20S Descent Module for return.  History: The very first “postmaster in space”, stamping envelopes, was Soviet cosmonaut Dr. Georgi Grechko on Salyut 6 in 1977, who also made the first Orlan spacewalk.]   FE-5 & FE-6 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Soichi at ~10:10am, TJ at ~10:40am EST.  Shortly before sleep time, Max Suraev will set up the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his 12th experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  At ~3:05am, Soichi held his weekly tagup with the Japanese Flight Control Team at SSIPC (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center)/Tsukuba via S-band/audio.  At ~2:38pm, in a special teleconference with the Houston Flight Director, the crew discussed the current exercise limitations on the T2 treadmill.  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1/2x, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive device (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5).  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Ganges River Delta (ISS had a fine, mid-afternoon pass over the world’s largest delta.  Visibility should have been almost clear of clouds, but the usual haze was present.  As the crew tracked northeastward up the east coast of India, they were to look right of track and try for context views with short lens settings to capture the entire delta in a single frame), Conakry, Guinea (Conakry with a population estimated at nearly 2 million is the capital and largest city in Guinea as well as its major shipping port.  At mid-afternoon ISS approached the western African coast from the SW.  It is the dry season and fair weather was expected.  Looking just right of track for the city, situated on a narrow spit of land extending into the Atlantic Ocean), Megafan SW Algeria (good analogs to Martian features lied to the right of track on this clear, mid-afternoon pass over the western reaches of the Sahara Desert of southwestern Algeria.  Trying for a contextual mapping pass looking just SE of the linear dune features of the Erg Chech), Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago (ISS had a near-nadir pass over this target located just off the north coast of South America.  It was early afternoon and fair weather was expected.  This capital city is located on the Gulf of Paria coast of northwestern Trinidad, the larger of the two islands), and San Jose, Costa Rica (the Costa Rican capital is located in the interior highlands of the Central American country at an elevation of over 3,800 feet.  This pass was in early afternoon with fair weather expected.  As the crew tracked inland from the Pacific, they were to look nadir for this large urban area of over one and a half million).  