
Payloads:
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The ELF high-speed camera LAN cable was routed to avoid interference with the work volume and small experiment area doors. The high-speed camera was recently installed and checked out to allow additional capabilities for the facility. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in Kibo.
HRF Veg questionnaire: Using the data collection tool on an available Station Support Computer (SSC), the crew completed their HRF Veg questionnaires. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System investigation is a phased research project that includes Veg-04A, Veg-04B, Veg-05, and HRF Veg. This work addresses the need for a system to produce healthy, fresh food on future long-duration exploration missions to supplement the standard pre-packaged astronaut diet. HRF Veg uses psychological surveys and crew evaluations of the flavor and appeal of plants grown for other investigations on the ISS to focus on the overall behavioral health benefits to crew members of having various plants and fresh food in space.
Immunity Assay: Science samples were collected and processed in support of the Immunity Assay experiment. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test. Up until now, this test could only be accomplished on Earth, and conducted pre- and postflight. With the help of a newly developed assay tube, researchers can also execute this test inflight, which allows for a much clearer assessment of the immune changes that happen in flight.
Plant Habitat-03A: The crew performed the final harvest for the Arabidopsis plants and seeds in the Plant Hab facility. The plant growth experiment was initiated in late December 2022, and the seeds will be returned to the ground for incorporation into the second part of the experiment. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food and air and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Zero T2: As part of the Zero T2 investigation, the crew performed an Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) exercise session on the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED). Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, and aerobic rowing and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill, there is no means of ambulating or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking and therefore the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of no treadmill usage during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance, which is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Systems:
Endurance Crew Undock and Landing: The Crew Dragon vehicle, Endurance, carrying NASA astronauts Nicole Mann and Josh Cassada, Japan’s Koichi Wakata, and Russian cosmonaut Anna Kikina undocked from the PMA-2 docking port on the ISS Saturday March 11th at 1:21 AM CT. Later that day, at 8:03 PM CT, Crew Dragon Endurance splashed down near Tampa off the coast of Florida returning Crew-5 safely from a 157-day mission.
ISS Crew Orientation and Adaption: The crew has allocated time scheduled as part of the first two weeks after an Earth-To-Orbit Vehicle (ETOV) docking. This allows the crew to comfortably adjust and adapt to living in space.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test: The crew performed eye exams with the support of the SSC Client. Eye exams are performed regularly on board in order to test visual acuity, visual field, and contrast sensitivity. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in microgravity environment. The physical test was then followed by a crew vision questionnaire.
NOD2D2 Reorganization: The crew reorganized stowage in the NOD2D2 area. Over the lifespan of the ISS, stowage has grown exponentially to support critical systems and the many science operations. The decongesting of some of the clutter should aid the crew as they translate through this area to complete science and maintenance activities.
CMAU and EICL V4 Power Connection Check: The crew checked CMAU and EICL V4 ZBooks power cables for proper connection to the laptops and ensured enough free cable length was available to avoid tension on connectors. Unfortunately, the Zbooks are continuously losing power connection, therefore the crew had to first check power connections/cables and then reinforce them by means of kapton tape/velcro strap. These Zbooks are used for ongoing science data downlink.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS Hover Maneuver to IDA-F MLI Survey
Payload Rack FIR Activation Commanding
C2V2 Activation
HRF Rack 2 Rack Power Up Commanding
PRO MSRR Deactivation Commanding

