03-10-2011March 10, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 03/10/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  HTV2 relocation from Node-2 Zenith port (upward) to Nadir port (downward) was successfully accomplished by Paolo Nespoli & Cady Coleman with the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) in a lengthy operation.  Nadir port-to-HTV vestibule outfitting and hatch opening are scheduled for tomorrow. CDR Scott Kelly continued his new week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 9th session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.] Kelly also concluded his 3rd and last (Flight Day 150) 24-hr NUTRITION with Repository urine sample collections this morning, with samples storing in MELFI.  His last in-flight NUTRITION/Repository activity will be the associated generic blood draw tomorrow morning.     [Generic blood & urine procedures are used which allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.  Urine samples go into MELFI within 30 minutes after collection.  Every individual urine/blood sample tube must be labeled with time of void and Crew ID.  Barcodes can be called down, placed in crew notes or the barcode reader can be used.  For the blood draw, there is a prior 8-hr fasting requirement, i.e., no food or drink, but water consumption is highly encouraged to ensure proper hydration.  Exercise should not be conducted during the 8 hrs prior to the blood draw.] Early in the day, in preparation for the relocation of the JAXA HTV2 (H-II Transfer Vehicle, Kounotori 2), CDR Kelly & FE-6 Coleman –Disconnected the remaining power jumper in the HTV PLC (Pressurized Logistic Carrier) Vestibule & completed HTV thermal cover installation,Installed the Node-2 Zenith port CDC (Center Disk Cover), with CDC flap open,Checked CBM (Common Berthing Mechanism) latch clearance, andClosed the Node-2 Zenith hatch. Coleman then initiated the 2h 25m depressurization of the Vestibule between HTV and Node-2.     [The 5-ft VAJ (Vacuum Access Jumper) with its ISA (Internal Sampling Adapter) was left connected and moved aside for the pressurization of the HTV/Node-2 Nadir vestibule later today.] During the depress period, Kelly & Coleman cleared remaining stowage items at the Node-2 Nadir location to clear the hatch for the relocation.     [The hatch was then set to Unlatch to minimize the probability of hatch mechanism jamming prior to HTV-2 relocate.]  For covering the HTV2 robotics operations, FE-5 Nespoli activated the VSW (Video Streaming Workstation) and SSC-1 (Station Support Computer 1) laptops for downlinking converted NTSC MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.    [Was not received.] Paolo also enabled the Cupola RWS UOP (Robotic Workstation / Utility Outlet Panel) for power-up in Node-3, connected the UOP DCP (Display & Control Panel) power bypass cable at the Cupola RWS, and installed the CCR (Cupola Crew Restraint).     The CDR powered up the CBCS (Centerline Berthing Camera System) at the Node-2 Nadir port and checked out the video system. Scott & Cady then demated the Nadir CBM by removing its bolts and deploying the latches. Afterwards, Paolo & Cady operated the Canadian SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) to unberth the HTV2 and maneuver it from the Zenith port to the RTL (Ready-To-Latch) stop at the Nadir port of Node-2, an activity taking several hours.   [No exercise was allowed during this period.] During the transfer, Scott Kelly used an internal camcorder to perform a careful survey of the HTV’s PCBM (Passive CBM) out of the Node-2 Zenith CBM hatch to check for any FOD (Foreign Object/Debris) on the mating surfaces. With Scott monitoring CBM operations through confirmed First Stage & Second Stage Capture plus subsequent ABOLT (Acquire Bolts) driving, Cady & Paolo “limped” the SSRMS between First & Second Stage and finally released the robotarm’s LEE (Latching End Effector).     [Crew exercise was allowed only after ABOLTs was complete due to loads/dynamics flight rules.]Afterwards, FE-6 disabled power to the Cupola RWS UOP in Node-3, while the CDR removed & stowed the CBCS and visually verified closure of all four Node-2 CBM petal covers through the Cupola windows. FE-5 deactivated the VSW along with the additional laptop used for viewing in the Cupola, and then removed the CCR which had steadied and stabilized the weightless SSRMS operator. CDR Kelly meanwhile cycled the Node-2 Nadir hatch latches to Closed and initiated vestibule pressurization and leak checking. Later tonight, Scott & Cady are scheduled for Part 1 of Node-2 Nadir-to-HTV Vestibule Outfitting – opening the Nadir port hatch, removing the Center Disk Cover, mating a power jumper (MPLM/HTV W6004) to HTV (already mated to Node) and installing a data jumper (MPLM 1553 LB-B W6002). During the vestibule depress, Nespoli worked in the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) to uninstall the Russian Matryoshka “Anthropomorphic Phantom” and then transferred it to the SM (Service Module). FE-1 Alex Kaleri & FE-2 Oleg Skripochka had several hours reserved for dismantling the “Phantom” after reviewing an instructional DVD video, followed by retrieving its numerous radiation detectors for packing and return to Earth.      [The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Besides spherical containers in the SM, there is the “Anthropomorphic Phantom”, located until today in the Kibo JPM,- a human dummy torso assembled from 33 individual horizontal slice-like (body cross-sectional) layers with 356 thermo-luminescent detectors (TLDs) and five nuclear radiation tracking detector (NTDP) assemblies between the layers.  For disassembly of the torso and extraction of the “nesting doll” detectors, used for studies of on-orbit radiation and long-term dose accumulation, the crew first “undressed” the dummy’s by removing a covering “poncho” and “hood”, then took it apart layer by layer.  The 356 TLDs and 5 NTDPs were pre-packed for return.  The payload collected radiation measurements every 15 minutes of each hour around the clock.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls.] In the FGB, Skripochka replaced a damaged cable at the STTS PA1 communications panel with a jumper taken from another PA panel with two cables. In the SM PkhO (Transfer Compartment) and PrK (Transfer Tunnel), Dmitri Kondratyev replaced the two DS-7A smoke detectors of the SPPZ Signal-VM fire detection system (#1, #10) which were not replaced by Alex & Oleg during the DS-7A replacements in the SM on 11/29 last year.  Afterwards, the IMS (Inventory Management System) was updated, and BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system & VD-SU control mode, which had been turned off for the operation, were reactivated.  The smoke detectors were powered on by ground command. Later, Dima unstowed a new Lenovo laptop and set it up with applications, service folders and network connections to replace the old RSS2 A31p laptop.  After checking out the new RSS2 and copying over data files from the old machine, the latter was stowed in place of the Lenovo.  FE-4 also completed the periodic transfer of US condensate water to an RS EDV container for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen & hydrogen, filling the designated KOV (condensate water) EDV container from US CWCs (Contingency Water Containers, #1064, #1043).  When filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.       [The ~40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the Elektron’s BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.] After configuring the usual pumping equipment (compressor #41, hoses, adapters), Oleg initiated the transfer of urine from 5 EDV-U containers to the empty BV1 Rodnik storage tank of the Progress M-09M/41P (#409) at DC1 Nadir.  Dmitri later took over to complete the 2 hr-operation.  The transfer equipment was then flushed with 5 L of water from EDV-SV     [Each of the spherical Rodnik tanks BV1 & BV2 consists of a hard shell with a soft membrane (bladder) composed of elastic fluoroplastic.  The bladder is used to expel water from the tank by compressed air pumped into the tank volume surrounding the membrane and is leak-tested before urine transfers, i.e., with empty tanks, the bladders are expanded against the tank walls and checked for hermeticity.] Kondratyev serviced the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet, downloading structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer during and after Shuttle departure to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.     [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.] Dmitri also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.       [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Oleg handed the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Dima transferred trash and other throw-away stuff to the spacecraft-turned-trashcan Progress 41P, with IMS updates. Cargo transfers with IMS logging were also on Sasha’s task list, who had 1.5 hrs reserved for continuing the loading of return cargo on Soyuz 24S’s Descent Module (SA). Alex & Oleg had an hour each set aside for personal crew departure preparations; these are standard pre-return procedures for crewmembers. The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1/2x, FE-2/2x, FE-4).   [TVIS unexpectedly powered off yesterday when Kaleri was going for his first (of 2) treadmill runs.  Troubleshooting is scheduled tomorrow.] WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC water audit.      [The new card (26-0045L) lists 131 CWCs (2,658.7 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (16 CWCs with 675.4 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 347.4 L in 9 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 170.8 L in 4 bags for transfer into EDV-RP containers via US/RSA-B hose, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only;  2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (104 CWCs with 1,909.7 L for reserve, of which 605.2 L in 33 CWCs are listed as “expired”;  4. condensate water (22.6 L in 1 bag, 7.1 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, 1 bag with 16.6 L not to be used pending analysis, plus 6 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (27.3 L in 2 CWCs from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] Soyuz 24S Post-Undock Tests:     Teams in Moscow and Houston are conducting final analyses of some tests being planned by RSC-Energia/TsUP for the new-design Soyuz 24S immediately upon undocking next Wednesday (3/16), particularly in view of the on-orbit installation of new M4294M Microamperemeter rate measurement assemblies (“ammeters”) by Alex Kaleri on 2/2 in theNeptun-ME crew console (PKSA) in response to an instrumentation failure during 24S ascent last year.  There will be two types of post-undock tests:Test of the manual LVLH (local vertical/local horizontal) attitude-keeping mode of the new digital Soyuz avionics systems.The test takes 5 minutes or less.  The crew and ground will monitor thruster activation.   LVLH is not the most important part of this test, the most important is that the hand controllers work and the thrusters fire.This test will not affect entry and landing regardless of the outcome.Ammeter test of the data from the new on-orbit installed roll rate instrumentso    If test is nominal, the crew will have all 4 landing modes available (two automatic, two manual); but if we can’t do an automated entry for any reason (based on miss distance, not the ammeter test) the crew can then do a manual entry.o    If the rate gyros in the ammeter test are not operational then we will go into a ballistic descent.  If there are issues with 2 of 3 ammeters then we will go into the reserve ballistic mode. 