
Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) Functional Checkout: Cristoforetti successfully completed Part 2 of the MARES checkout.  She measured, validated, and calibrated different motor profiles of the MARES facility.  The MARES hardware consists of an adjustable chair and human restraint system, a pantograph (an articulated arm supporting the chair, used to properly position the user), a direct drive motor, associated electronics and experiment programming software, a linear adapter that translates motor rotation into linear movements, and a vibration isolation frame. The MARES facility will be used for research on musculoskeletal, biomechanical, and neuromuscular human physiology to better understand the effects of microgravity on the muscular system. 
Advanced Colloids Experiment-Microscopy 3 (ACE-M3): Virts replaced the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Microscope Power/Data Cable 1 and rotated LMM to service position. He removed APEX-03 Petri Plate from inside the LMM Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC), then installed the LMM objective lenses and the Preliminary Advanced Colloids Experiment (PACE) Light Emitting Diode (LED) Base inside the AFC.  He then mixed wells A1 and B2 on the ACE Sample with the Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-3 Magnet and installed the sample inside the AFC.  Finally, he rotated LMM to the operate position and closed the rack doors. FIR/ACE will perform ACE-M3 Science Run 2a on ACE Sample S/N 2109 through Sunday, March 22.  LMM/ACE will image in several different locations throughout the wells with a focus on imaging with the 63X air objective. At the end of the run, downlinks will be performed and directory listings will be created. The ACE-M3 experiment involves the design and assembly of complex three-dimensional structures from small particles suspended within a fluid medium. These so-called “self-assembled colloidal structures” are vital to the design of advanced optical materials. In the microgravity environment, insight will be provided into the relation between particle shape, crystal symmetry, and structure: a fundamental issue in condensed matter science.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Yearly Certification: Virts performed a functional test and certification of the MSG Sensors.  The first verification was to activate the rack and gather data on MSG’s sensors without cooling for 30 minutes. Then, cooling was restored and the ground collected data for an additional 30 minutes. It is essential that the steps to activate the rack are performed quickly so the uncooled profile can begin as soon as possible following ground activation.  The second evaluation tested the Air Handling Unit (AHU) fans and associated negative pressure control system. MSG uses two Work Volume (WV) Delta Pressure sensors as the input to the negative pressure control system. 
USOS Hatch Seal Inspection: Virts cleaned and inspected USOS hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surface, and hatch handle mechanism for Foreign Object Debris (FOD) and/or damage. The inspection included hatches in the Node 2, Node 3, Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM), Columbus (COL) and Japanese Experiment Module (JEM).
ISS Reboost: Today’s planned reboost using 58P thrusters will set up for the 4-orbit rendezvous for 42S docking scheduled on March 27. Planned burn duration will be 4 minutes, 18 seconds with a delta-V of 0.58 meters/second.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Biochemical Urine Test
URISYS Hardware Stowage
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) – Review
MSG – Laptop Activation
MAR. Laptop Activation
MSG – Sensor Checkout
MAR. Functional Test
ACE – Review before the Experiment
Changeout of Replaceable Condensate Removal Lines  r/g 8274
Soyuz 715 Comm Check in VHF2d with Relay to MCC  r/g 8278
FIR Rack Doors Open
ACE-M3. Samples Preparation
MAR. Initiate Battery Discharge
MELF1 – cold box inspection
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
FS1 File Server Hardware Installation. / r/g 8276
ARED Flywheel Cylinder Evacuation
FIR Rack Door Close
MSG sensor checkout
OBSTANOVKA.  r/g 8275
Hatch Seal Inspection
[СМОК] Purge with air. / r/g 8274
MAR. Battery Discharge Status Check
MAR. File Transfer
MAR. Closeout ops
EPM. Preparation for File Downlink
MAR. Disconnect and Stow
MAR – File Ops
MAR – Hardware Remove and Stow
MSG – Hardware Audit.
Closure of outer covers on SM windows 6,8,9,12,13, and 14 for ISS Reboost /  r/g 6965
Restow CTBs to Support MARES Implementation Ops
SM VHF2d Comm Check using primary and backup hardware /  r/g 8277
Closing USOS Window Shutters
SM VHF2d Comm Check using primary and backup hardware / r/g 8277
WHC – Reconfigure WHC to Internal EDV for UPA safing

Completed Task List Items

SAMS screen clean
Dragon transfer/pre-pack

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


JCP s/w file uplink
‘Chocolate’ Service pack uplink [On Schedule for later today] 

