
Advanced Plant Experiments (APEX)-04: The crew configured the Veggie facility for the next APEX-04 Petri Plate sample for a four-day growing cycle. After the four days of growth, the petri plate will be inserted into the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) facility for detailed imaging. The APEX-04 (Epigenetic change in Arabidopsis thaliana in response to spaceflight – differential cytosine DNA methylation of plants on the ISS) experiment investigates how spaceflight can affect an organism on a molecular level without altering its outward appearance. Previous research has demonstrated that large numbers of plant genes are expressed differently in space compared to plants on Earth which can alter how plants grow. This investigation studies the entire genome of thale cress plants grown in space, creating maps of spaceflight-specific changes in certain groups of genes. Results give new insight into plants’ molecular responses to spaceflight which benefits efforts to grow plants in space for food and oxygen.
Rodent Research Preparations: The crew gathered and prepared for this weekend’s Rodent Research operations, configuring the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) facility with necessary equipment and reviewing On-Board-Training (OBT) videos. The Tissue Regeneration-Bone Defect (RR-4) investigation studies what prevents vertebrates such as rodents and humans from regrowing lost bone and tissue, and how the microgravity extraterrestrial condition impacts the process. Results could lead to tissue regeneration efforts in space and a better understanding of limitations of limb regrowth at wound sites.
Fluid Shifts Chibis Imaging Day 2: The 48S subject performed day two of Lower Body Negative Pressure (Chibis) measurements for the Fluid Shifts experiment.  The crew donned the Chibis device and while the crewmember was exposed to the negative pressure (pulling the fluid feetward), then with ground and onboard operator support they configured the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and the Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) hardware, before completing a DPOAE test, OCT exam, and a Tonometry exam. This investigation characterizes the space flight-induced fluid shift, including intra- and extravascular shifts, intra- and extracellular shifts, changes in total body water and lower vs. upper body shifts. Noninvasive techniques are used to assess arterial and venous dimensions and flow parameters, ocular pressure and structure, and changes in intracranial pressure. Lower body negative pressure is being investigated for its ability to mitigate some of the effects of the space flight-induced fluid shift. Results from this investigation are expected to help define the causes of the ocular structure and vision changes associated with long duration space flight, and assist in the development of countermeasures. 
Auxin Transport: The crew completed Day 4 operations of the Auxin Transport experiment.  The crew viewed the demo video for the tube fixation and retrieved the trays required for cold stowage insertion.  The samples will be harvested and fixated tomorrow and inserted into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) on Sunday. Auxin Transport is a JAXA sponsored study to clarify the role of the plant hormone auxin under microgravity conditions.  Specialists hope to collect gene expression data, including levels and redistribution of the proteins for auto-morphogenesis (differentiation of tissues and subsequent growth without an introduced stimulus) using corn plants as the plant organism model for Auxin Transport 4.
Group Combustion Bottle Exchange: The crew performed a gas bottle unit air exchange in the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) work volume in support of the Group Combustion Experiment Module (GCEM) upcoming runs. GCEM studies flame propagation in microgravity through observation of droplet interval, arrangement and size during combustion events. The Elucidation of Flame Spread and Group Combustion Excitation Mechanism of Randomly-distributed Droplet Clouds (Group Combustion) investigation tests a theory that fuel sprays change from partial to group combustion as flames spread across a cloud of droplets. In the MSPR in the Kibo module, droplets of decane are arranged randomly on thin-fiber lattice points, and the flame and droplet positions and temperature distribution are measured as the flame spreads. Microgravity blocks convection, which on Earth would quickly disperse the droplets and combustion products before such measurements could be made. 
General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER)-2: Last night GLACIER-2 (planned to be at +4° Celsius) experienced a plethora of unexpected reboots. Ground controllers attempted several recovery steps but were unable to resolve the issue.  To reduce heat generation within the unit, the GLACIER was powered off and at crew wakeup, the Auxin Transport samples were moved to GLACIER-1, which was already at the appropriate temperature.  No science loss is anticipated, as the highest temperature that the samples saw was below critical temperatures.  Ground teams are reviewing data to determine cause of the reboots.
Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA) 3 Operations: Following this week’s PMA3 activities, today the crew recorded PMA3 pressure reading and tore down the Internal Sampling Adapter (ISA)/Vacuum Access Jumper (VAJ) setup. 
Orbital 7 (OA-7) On-board Training (OBT): In preparation for OA-7 berth currently planned for March 23, the USOS crew completed another session of Cygnus rendezvous training. The focus was on both nominal and off nominal operations as well as crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding the vehicle.
SpaceX-10 Cargo Operations: The crew has completed approximately 30 hours of cargo packing with approximately 20 hours of packing to be completed.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

ENERGY Diet Log of Breakfast
Glacier 2 Transfer Samples to Glacier 1
APEX-04 MELFI Sample Removal
APEX-04 LMM Petri Plate Insertion
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Pressurized Mating Adapter 3 (PMA 3) Leak Check Teardown
FLUID SHIFTS. Comm configuration for the experiment
Rodent Research 4 Review
FLUID SHIFTS. Gathering and Connecting Equipment for TV coverage (Ku-band)
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
ASEPTIC. Transfer of Glovebox-S S/N 05 from Progress 435 to MRM1
СОЖ maintenance
Handhold Exp Platform #2 (HXP2) Item Pre-gathering.
Vacuum Cleaning area behind panels 405, 406 and MRM1 Interior
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Setup Power On From Cargo Transfer Bag
ASEPTIC. Setup of Glovebox-S S/N 05 on Glovebox pullout rack 521ГК.600Ю1003-0.
Fluid Shifts OCT Service Module (SM) Setup
Dust collectors ПC1, ПС1 filter cleaning by vacuum cleaner in FGB
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound 2 Data Export Alternate
FLUID SHIFTS. Connecting OCT Laptop to RS BRI and HRF PC to ППС-26 (Instead of RSE-Med).
Habitability Human Factors Questionnaires – Subject
Fluid Shifts OCT Service Module Power On
Fluid Shifts CCFP Service Module Configuration
ASEPTIC. Glovebox-S Checkout.
ASEPTIC. Photography during Gloveboz-S checkout
Rodent Research Gather 3
Fluid Shifts DPOAE Service Module Setup
FLUID SHIFTS. Chibis Setup
FLUID SHIFTS. Assistance during Operation with CHIBIS and GAMMA-1M.
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Service Module Setup
Fluid Shifts Experiment Service Module Data Collection – Operator
FLUID SHIFTS. Data Gathering in the SM, Subject
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Nitrogen Manual Valve Open
FLUID SHIFTS. Chibis Closeout Ops
Fluid Shifts CCFP DPOAE Service Module End
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Nitrogen Manual Valve Close
FLUID SHIFTS. Deactivation of КСПЭ Equipment and Closing Applications on Central Post SSC
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Service Module Stow
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Deactivation
FLUID SHIFTS. Restoring nominal comm config
Fluid Shifts OCT Service Module Power Off
FLUID SHIFTS. Disconnecting of Laptop OCT, HRF and connecting RSE-Med.
IMS Tagup
ENERGY Diet Log of Lunch
Long Duration Sorbent Testbed Status Check.
Rodent Research Crew Conference
Fluid Shifts OCT Service Module Stow
Glacier 5 Battery Replace
Auxin Transport Sample Fixation Demonstration for Auxin Tube
Auxin Transport Sample Fixation Demonstration for Chemical Fixation Bag
Fluid Shifts CCFP HRF PC Service Module Stow
FLUID SHIFTS. De-Route US inverter from СУБА
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
Onboard oxygen tanks (БК-3М) checkout in DC1.
Auxin Transport Cylinder GLACIER Retrieval
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Auxin Transport GLACIER Retrieval
Orlan-MKC No.4 Backup Bladder Leak Check.
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Rendezvous Review
Fluid Shifts Hardware Final Gather
Fluid Shifts Hardware USOS Transfer
SM Ventilation Subsystem Preventive Maintenance. Group В2.
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Rendezvous Review
Orlan MKC No.4 and БСС (Orlan Interface Unit) leak check and valve tests.
VIZIR. Experiment Ops.
Fluid Shifts HRF PC 3 Reconnect
Group Combustion Module (GCM)  Gas Bottle Unit Air (GBU) Change
Fluid Shifts OCT Laptop US Lab Setup
Rodent Research 4 Setup
Comm config before Orlan checkout
Fluid Shifts Hardware Stow
ORLAN systems, БСС (Spacesuit Separation Unit) and comm telemetry checkout.
US EVA EPIC SPDM Lube Tool Config
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Perform comm reconfig for nominal ops
Orlan MKC No.4 and БСС storage mode operation
Orlan MK No.5 and БСС storage mode operation
Equipment stowage after Orlan-MKC No.4
SM Ventilation Subsystem Preventive Maintenance. Group В2.
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Group Combustion Module (GCM)  Gas Bottle Unit Air (GBU) Leak Check
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Termination
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Initiation

Completed Task List Items

FE-5 EVA EPIC Lube Procedure Review
Dragon Cargo Ops Message
EVA ECWS OBT

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

JEMRMS SFA park
SAGE checkout/downlink commanding

