
ISS HAM pass: The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with South Australia Wing, Parafield, South Australia.  Questions included how the crew judges direction in space, how astronaut training in the pool compares to the actual activities performed in space, and how long it takes to get to the ISS.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
MVP2 cell-03: The crew installed Nutrient Tubesets into the Emory Modules, inserted the Emory Modules into MVP-02 and prepared for cell insertion on Saturday. This project will study the generation of cardiomyocytes, specialized heart muscle cells, for use in research and clinical applications. Specifically, the team is studying the differentiation of these heart cells from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), adult cells that have been altered to reinstate characteristics of natural stem cells. Simulated microgravity studies have allowed the team to increase the yield, purity, and survival of cardiomyocytes derived from iPSCs, and true spaceflight conditions are expected to further enhance these effects. Understanding how microgravity improves cardiomyocyte differentiation will enable the team to create clinically relevant heart tissue for use in regenerative medicine, disease modeling, and drug discovery.
OsteoOmics-2: Using the Life Science Glovebox (LSG), the crew was planned to perform the fixation (preservation) operations on the remaining BioCell in BioCell Habitat 2 but it was contaminated.  The ground team is assessing the possible source of the contamination which has affected the majority of the 24 total BioCells in the 4 habitats.  Millions of Americans experience bone loss, which results from disease or the reduced effects of gravity that can occur in bed-ridden patients. OsteoOmics tests whether magnetic levitation accurately simulates the free-fall conditions of microgravity by comparing genetic expression osteoblastic cells, a type of bone cell, levitated in a high-field superconducting magnet with cells flown in low-Earth orbit. This information helps scientists determine the molecular and metabolic changes that take place in magnetic levitation and real microgravity.
Phage Evolution: The crew performed SABL removals and MELFI insertions to support the last part of the Phage Evolution investigation.  Evolution of New Phage-Bacteria Interactions from Exposure to Space Environment (Phage Evolution) examines the effects of microgravity and radiation exposure on phage and bacterial host interactions, including phage specificity for a bacterial host and host resistance to specific phages. Bacteriophages, or phages, are viruses that invade and destroy targeted bacteria without harming human cells or the body’s beneficial bacterial population. Characterizing microgravity’s effects on phages could lead to improved therapies that provide alternative treatments for antibiotic-resistant infections. 
Systems
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status: Following UPA issues last Sunday which indicated a seizing of the drive train and imminent hard failure of the Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA), engineering teams concluded that the PCPA was near end-of-life and recommended replacement of the unit with an available on-orbit spare. The crew completed the R&R, however, the UPA faulted out due to a PCPA high current signature during initial startup. Two additional restarts were attempted with similar fault signatures. Ground teams are evaluating the data and forward plan.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) In-Flight Refill Unit/Fluid Pumping Unit (FPU) Sampling: To satisfy maintenance requirements for on-orbit stowage, the crew dumped and filled EMU 3004 feedwater tanks using iodinated water from a Contingency Water Container – Iodinated (CWC-I). After a recharge, a small quantity was dumped from the feedwater tanks to provide ullage for condensate collection during the next EMU prebreathe. In addition, this procedure includes steps for taking two water samples from the IRU: the first after the full EMU dump and the second 4 hours later.
Completed Task List Activities:

ZBook stow

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Payloads ops support
EMU maintenance ops
UPA PCPA R&R support

Lookahead Plan
Saturday, 3/14 (GMT 074)
Payloads:


CGBA stat check
ISS Experience SD c/o
MELFI icebrick insertions
MVP2 Cell-03
Nanoracks Mod-51

Systems:

Crew off duty; housekeeping

Sunday, 3/15 (GMT 075)
Payloads:


MELFI icebrick insertions
Probiotics
Standard Measures

Systems:

Crew off duty

Monday, 3/16 (GMT 077)
Payloads:


Fluid Shifts
Mouse Mission-5

Systems:

SpX-20 EVA packing
T61p USB video adapter R&R

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


HRF Generic MELFI Sample Retrieval And Insertion Operations
Reminder Probiotics Fecal Operations
ARED Photo/TV Reminder
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) weekly conference
Multi-use Variable-g Platform-02 MERLIN Sample Insertion
In-Flight Maintenance PCPA Gather
P/L Polar Sample Removal
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap
Vacuum Cleaning ВД1 and ВД2 airducts in DC1
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
LSG Primary Crew Restraint Unfold
IRU Sample PT1 and EMU 3004 Dump/Fill
Vacuum Cleaning ВД1 and ВД2 airducts in MRM2
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Setup
RSS1 Laptop Replacement
Fabrication and installation of improved ventilation aids for RSS1 ZBook laptop
In-Flight Maintenance Pressure Control and Pump Assembly Remove and Replace
OsteoOmics Cargo Consolidation
OsteoOmics Fixation Operations
OsteoOmics-2 MELFI Sample Insertion
Flushing Progress 443 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank 1 connector В1 and H2O Tank 2 connector B2
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config Columbus Setup
Phage Evolution Historical Documentation Photography
Phage Evolution SABL Sample Removal
Phage Evolution MELFI Sample Insertion
PAO Preparation
Water Resource Management (WRM) Condensate Sample Init
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) in Columbus
MELFI 2 Ice Brick Insert 3
Alternate Polar 3 Desiccant Swap
Handover of RSK2 T61p laptop s/n1311 to USOS for disposal
LSG Primary Crew Restraint Fold
Food Acceptability Survey
LSG Work Volume Stow
Multi-use Variable-g Platform-02 MWA Preparation
T61p Laptop RSK2 S/N 1311 Handover
JAXA Mouse Mission 5 Water Refill
Photo/TV. Checking Camcorder Settings
Multi-use Variable-g Platform-02 Cell-03 Install
IRU Sample PT2
Multi-use Variable-g Platform-02 Historical Documentation Photography
UF-ATMOSFERA. Hardware and electrical connections setup
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
UF-ATMOSFERA. PL activation
Vacuum Cleaning of Dust collectors ПC1, ПС1 filter cartridges in FGB  (pnl 203, 403)
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
Vacuum clean FGB pressurized adapter
OGS Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) Flow Measurement
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Stow
Polar 2 Tray Removal
Water Resource Management (WRM) Condensate Sample Terminate

 