
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction/Growth and Extinction Limit (CIR/SoFIE/GEL): In support of ongoing science, the crew accessed the CIR and exchanged a used manifold gas bottle with a new bottle. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the CIR that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. The GEL experiment studies burning in microgravity, measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. Results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques, improving crew safety in future space facilities.
Immunity Assay: In continuation of the multi-day experiment session, science samples were collected and processed. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test. Up until now, this test could only be accomplished on Earth, and conducted pre- and postflight. With the help of a newly developed assay tube, researchers can also execute this test inflight, which allows for a much clearer assessment of the immune changes that happen in flight.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The crew gained access to the MSL furnace area and exchanged Sample Cartridge Assemblies (SCAs). The successfully processed Growth of Ternary Compound Semiconductor-C3 (GTCS-C3) SCA was removed and the GTCS-C1 SCA was installed. GTCS grows semiconductor crystals based on zinc selenide (ZnSe) compounds in microgravity. ZnSe-based crystals have potential applications for high-power lasers operating in infrared wavelengths. The investigation compares structural quality of crystals grown on Earth and in microgravity to establish how gravity-driven fluid flows contribute to formation of various types of crystalline defects.
Zero T2: An Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) exercise session was performed on the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED). Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, and aerobic rowing and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill there is no means of ambulating or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking and therefore the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of no treadmill usage during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance. This is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Systems:
Toilet Dose Pump Removal: The crew removed the Toilet dose pump to be returned on SpX-27 for detailed engineering analysis on the ground. Toilet was in a dormant state due to previous unsuccessful troubleshooting steps that led to the toilet dose pump being declared failed. In order to address a capability gap for robust, low consumables, low profile human metabolic waste management system for future space exploration vehicles, NASA authorized the development of the Universal Waste Management System (UWMS), now known simply as ‘Toilet.’
Emergency Equipment Return: The crew removed and relocated Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs), removed and stowed Quick Don Mask Assembly from Emer Air Supply, and finally retrieved and stowed Emergency Hardware Cargo Transfer Bags (CTBs) all in preparation for return of the equipment. The PBA provides breathable O2, eye/nose/mouth protection, and two-way communications to a crewmember during a fire, rapid depressurization, or toxic spill event.
Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) Exam: The crew used the ultrasound device to perform a VTE scan. This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Big Fix Patch
Regenerative ECLSS RTD Support
ISS External Video Survey
PRO MSRR Commanding
Crew Dragon System Checkout

