
Payloads:
Confocal Space Microscopy:  The protective cover from the Confocal Space Microscope was removed and the checkout sample was inserted.  The Confocal Space Microscope is a JAXA facility that provides fluorescence images of biological samples aboard the ISS. Confocal microscopy uses spatial filtering techniques to eliminate out-of-focus light or glare in specimens with thicknesses exceeding the immediate plane of focus. With the Confocal Microscope, data can be obtained on the fundamental nature of cellular and tissue structure and functions in real-time.
EasyMotion: The crew donned the EasyMotion suit and then performed a Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) exercise session.  The EasyMotion investigation uses whole body Electro-Myo-Stimulation (EMS) with a wearable body skin suit for an ISS crew member to perform pre- and postflight EMS-assisted exercises. EMS technology initiates spontaneous (involuntary) activation of global musculature (muscle, tendon, fascia) to be monitored (muscle tone/tension and stiffness) inflight using the non-invasive Myoton technology that is currently aboard the space station for the Myotones investigation.
Myotones: Skin marking was performed on the designated experiment target areas and measurements were taken using the Myotones device.  The Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones) investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g., muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth, as well as for future space missions.
Space Biofilms-2:  The crew performed the second of the three fixation activities for the Space Biofilms-2 experiment.  Fixation refers to a group of techniques which are used to preserve various aspects of the samples for later analysis.  The Characterization of Biofilm Formation, Growth, and Gene Expression on Different Materials and Environmental Conditions in Microgravity (Space Biofilms) investigation characterizes the mass, thickness, structure, and associated gene expression of biofilms (molds) that form in space by analyzing a fungal species grown on different materials.  The experiment uses the model fungal organism Penicillium rubens.  Biofilm formation can cause equipment malfunction and human illnesses and could be a serious problem on future long-term human space missions.
Vascular Aging (VA):  In preparation for activities later this week, the big picture words for the VA 48-hour Bio-Monitor measurement session were reviewed.  Emerging data points towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries.
Systems:
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: The crew completed multiple post-EVA activities after yesterday’s successful 3A IROSA Prep EVA. Their activities included water operations to recharge EMU feedwater tanks and perform an ullage dump, a relocation of Station Support Computer (SSC) 12, the removal and charge initiation of the EMU Long Life Battery (LLB)/Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA), downlink of video files from the EVA GoPro and camera stowage, an EVA debrief, and initiation of Metal Oxide (METOX) cartridge regeneration. Additional glove photos were taken and downlinked for review.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Water Container (ЕДВ-CB) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew built a new ЕДВ-CB and R&Red the existing ЕДВ-CB in the WHC. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. The flush tank was filled using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump, after which the WHC was reactivated.
Pre-EVA Activities: In preparation for next week’s Radiator Beam Valve Module (RBVM) Jumper Install EVA, the crew reviewed two procedures. The Portable Onboard Computers (POC) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software reconfig files were opened in order to view the step-by-step sequence for the EVA, and a training on Fluid Quick Disconnects along with the generic EVA Cribsheet were reviewed.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MT Translation
UHF 2 Activation/Deactivation
THC CCAA Temperature Setpoint Change
Crew Dragon System Checkout

