
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Overnight, the Robotics Ground Controllers unstowed the Robotic Refueling Mission (RRM) Payload from the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Enhanced Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Temporary Platform (EOTP).  They then stowed the RRM on the Dragon Trunk Site 1 Passive Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (PFRAM).  Next they released the RRM and withdrew SPDM Arm1 from the Dragon Trunk.  Finally the Robotics Ground Controllers rotated the SPDM EOTP to its nominal park position.  MSS performance was nominal. 
Manufacturing Device Feedstock Exchange: The crew replaced the Feedstock Canister for the Manufacturing Device, resupplying the 3-D printer with Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene (ABS) for future prints.  The Manufacturing Device-Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF) enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the AMF that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. The AMF is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
NanoRacks Multi-Gas Monitor (MGM): This morning the crew removed the MGM from EXpedite PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 4, and packed it for return on SpX10. The ground teams elected to return the MGM as they have been unable to command to it and hope to retrieve saved data during ground troubleshooting.  The Nanoracks MGM is a proof of concept sniffer type payload mounted in a Nanoracks platform that continuously monitors oxygen, carbon dioxide, ammonia and water gases in the ISS cabin air.  
NanoRacks Module 9 Operations: The crew is scheduled to perform the Return minus 5 days (R-5) operations in support of the NanoRacks Module 9 experiments for the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP)/National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE) experiments. Supporting various schools and student designed experiments studying a range of objectives, the SSEP lets students design experiments that address real challenges of living and working in space. The program also is a key initiative for U.S. science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education, educating and inspiring the next generation of scientists and engineers to work on the space program.

Arabidopsis Germination in Martian Soil Simulant (Open Window School, Bellevue, WA) The experiment determines if Arabidopsis thaliana germinates in Martian soil simulant in microgravity. Other researchers have shown A. thaliana grows in Martian soil simulant, but the lower gravity of Mars cannot be simulated on Earth. The microgravity environment on the ISS allows for testing of plant growth in an environment closer to the gravity on Mars than that of Earth.
Living Water Filters: Triops in Microgravity (North Star Charter School, Boise, ID) This student experiment investigates the capability of Triops longicaudatus to filter bacteria out of pond water in microgravity as well as they do on Earth. After the experiment returns to Earth, analysis will be conducted in cooperation with Boise Waste Water Treatment facility to determine which kinds of bacteria remain, using a Heterotrophic Plate Count method. Also to be measured is the mass of the Triops that were hatched in microgravity and compare it to the mass of the Triops that were hatched on Earth.
Shells of Glass Capsules, Covered with Different Substances Reacting in Regular Water (Langevin Science School, Calgary, Alberta, Canada) The focus of this investigation is to determine how three different capsule shells dissolve in water when coated in cornstarch (carbohydrates), gum Arabic (gum) or sucrose (carbohydrates) in a microgravity environment. Research indicates that these substances dissolve in water and that certain coatings may react “faster” or ”slower” resulting from a lack of gravity. After the test is completed aboard the ISS, observations are made to determine which substances can be completely dissolved, which can’t be dissolved at all, or which were approaching their dissolving point. Based on this information, astronauts can be sent encapsulated medication with a certain substance covering the outer shell for more effective treatment. Knowing the differences may improve how a medication is produced and delivered into space.
SLIPS in Microgravity (Arts and Technology Academy, Eugene, OR) The investigation tests Slippery Liquid-Infused Porous Surfaces (SLIPS) in a microgravity environment to find out if the change in gravitational environment changes its properties as comparted to Earth. If it does it could possibly solve frost-over for rockets at launch and in microgravity. Using three volumes with various surfaces and tubes coated on the inside with SLIPS in both volume 2 and 3. In this experiment the hope is to solve frost-over on the ISS with SLIPS by finding if SLIPS cannot only stay on the face of a solid but also still make liquids slip off of the solid in microgravity.
Streptococcus mutans Production of Lactic Acid in Microgravity (Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical High School, Fitchburg, MA). This experiment hopes to find a more efficient dental care regimen for astronauts. The factor observed in the experiment is whether or not Streptococcus mutans (S. mutans) produce more lactic acid in microgravity and if the reproduction rate of the previously stated bacteria is affected in space. Improper oral hygiene is a factor that contributes to poor health in the rest of the body. If the S. mutans prove to be a greater force in space than they do on Earth, then the aseptic habits of astronauts may need to be modified. 
Germination of Quinoa in Space (Mabry Elementary School, Hillsborough County, FL) The investigation studies how microgravity affects the germination of quinoa seeds by comparing the number of seeds that germinate on Earth with the number of seeds that germinate in microgravity. The MixStix is loaded with Chenopodium quinoa seeds on a growth substrate and water separated by a clamp. The crew is requested to open the clamp and shake the tube gently to introduce the seeds to water beginning germination, 14 days before undock.
Testing the Effectiveness of Tobramycin and Loteprednol Etabonate (Zylet) on Staphylococcus Epidermidis Type of Bacterial Conjunctivitis in Microgravity (Bearden Middle School, Knox County, TN) Bacterial conjunctivitis is a common infection and can affect astronauts during space travel. As space travel progresses bacterial conjunctivitis could become a problem. The hope is to address this problem by finding out if bacterial conjunctivitis is affected by a normal antibiotic treatment in microgravity and to better understand the growth and treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis. Understanding the growth and treatment not only allows effective treatment of future infections, but has implications on treating other bacterial infections in space as well.
The Effects of Microgravity on Ryegrass Seeds (Florence M. Gaudineer Middle School, Springfield, NJ) This investigation studies the effects of microgravity on the growth of Ryegrass (Lolium perenne) seeds to clarify conflicting information found during research regarding gravity’s effects on the way seeds are grown. Investigating seed growth in microgravity will assist with long durations of living in space.

Auxin Transport: The crew took photos of the incubated Pea chambers then fixed the samples in the Chemical Fixation Bag.  The samples were then placed in the +2 and -95 Celsius Dewars for cold stowage conditioning prior to return on SpX-10. Auxin Transport is a JAXA sponsored study to clarify the role of the plant hormone auxin under microgravity conditions.  Specialists hope to collect gene expression data, including levels and redistribution of the proteins for auto-morphogenesis (differentiation of tissues and subsequent growth without an introduced stimulus) using corn plants as the plant organism model for Auxin Transport 4. 
Dragon Cargo Ops:  Today the crew completed Dragon cargo operations, with the exception of the items that still have tasks remaining prior to undock.  Much of the Dragon cargo packing and loading has been performed by the crew via the task list in their off duty time or when they have had available time during the work day.  The crew transferred and installed the unpowered MERLIN1 into the Dragon this afternoon.  Hatch closure and unberth is planned for Saturday, March 18 with release planned for Sunday, March 19.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED):  Yesterday, the crew noticed that the upper stop cable was frayed.  Today, the crew changed out the upper stop cable.  The crew performed the 6-month periodic maintenance on the ARED.  This task includes retorquing the Crank Handle socket heat cap screw and inspecting the Crank Handle witness marks, inspecting the Heel Raise Pip Pins and Racking Mechanism and inspecting the Arm Base Slider Track. 
Express Logistics Carrier (ELC)1 Express Pallet Controller Assembly (ExPCA) Low Voltage Power Supply (LVPS) Temperature Exceedance: Yesterday, the ELC1 ExPCA Low Voltage Power Supply slightly exceeded its 28.4C temperature limit for several seconds.  Its temperature limit is set to protect capacitors that are installed backward.  To prevent further temperature exceedances, flight controllers powered off portions of the STP-H5 payload.  A FIT will be held to review the temperature limits and consider options to avoid restricting STP-H5 operation.
Habanero Service Pack Load: Ground controllers loaded the Habanero SSC service pack to the LS1 server, ISS Server 1, and the Station Support Computers (SSCs) on orbit yesterday.  Software updated in the service pack includes the Treadmill (T)2 Graphical User Interface (GUI), External High Definition Camera (EHDC) software, and the Fireport application.  SSC 6 was not updated because it has been exhibiting unstable behavior.  It will be reloaded, then the Habanero service pack applied.  The Network Monitoring System (NMS) laptop reload that was scheduled in conjunction with the Habanero service pack installation was not successful. Ground controllers will reattempt the reload using a different method.  The EHDC software installed on ISS Server 1 was not able to communicate with the EHDCs. The previous version of the EHDC software is being used in the interim until the update is working.  Ground teams are assessing what corrective actions are needed. 
Meteor Space Station Power Controller (SSPCM) Trip: Overnight, there was an overcurrent trip of the SSPCM feeding the Meteor payload in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).  The Meteor payload is powered from an Alternating Current (AC) inverter. The Meteor payload was powered off at the time of the trip and is not planned to be used until after SpaceX-10 departure.  Ground teams are investigating.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Auxin Transport Item Gather
Manufacturing Device Print Removal, Clean and Stow
ESA ACTIVE DOSIMETER MOBILE UNIT SWAP
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
Fine Motor Skills Experiment Test – Subject
Manufacturing Device Feedstock Canister Exchange
TIMER. Initiate copying data to hard drive for return
NanoRacks Multi-Gas Monitor Removal
Cygnus PROX Switch ON
Collecting surface samples from SM equipment and structures
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Multi purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Work Bench Setup
Auxin Transport Micro-G Sample Detachment
Dragon Cargo Transfer Operations
Auxin Transport Sample Fixation 1
Auxin Transport 1G Sample Detachment
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Operator Assistance in Preparation for the Experiment
Auxin Transport Sample Fixation 2
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and measurements.
Space Acceleration Measurement System Control Unit Removal
Auxin Transport Sampling Box MELFI Insertion
Auxin Transport Large Aluminum Bag MELFI Insertion
Auxin Transport Micro-G Sample Detachment
ISIS Drawer Installation
Auxin Transport Sample Fixation 3
Radi-N Detector Retrieval/Readout
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Close-out ops (Operator)
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons Hardware Handover
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeter detectors from USOS.
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and data readout Memory Card pre-pack for return.
Scheduled maintenance of Central Post Laptop, Terminating Test 1 and Starting Test 2.
Auxin Transport 1G Sample Detachment
Scheduled maintenance of Central Post Laptop, Terminating Test 1 and Starting Test 2. Generating reports. 
Auxin Transport Sample Fixation 4
Scheduled maintenance of Central Post Laptop, start test 3.
Auxin Transport Sampling Box MELFI Insertion
Auxin Transport Large Aluminum Bag MELFI Insertion
Cygnus PCS HCP Selfcheck (Side B)
Habitability Human Factors Post-Questionnaire PI Conference – Subject
GREAT START. Preparation for the Experiment
GREAT START. Video Recording of Profilaktika P/L (Operator)
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Upper Stop Cable Replacement
Scheduled maintenance of Central Post Laptop, end test 3 and start test 4.
TIMER. End copying data to hard drive for return
Cygnus PCS HCP Selfcheck (A Side)
NanoRacks Module 9 Ops Session 4
Auxin Transport Closeout
Multi purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Work Bench Closeout
GREAT START. Closeout Ops
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) 6-Month Maintenance
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
ЕДВ Separation using Separation Unit [УС].
Scheduled maintenance of Central Post Laptop, Terminating Test 4 and Closeout Ops.
СОЖ Maintenance
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Dragon Locker Remove
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Rodent Research Locker Prep
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
MERLIN ISS/Dragon Transfer
Science Box Removal
EXPRESS Rack 6 Locker Installation
Intravehicular Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter (IV-TEPC) Relocate
Collecting surface samples from SM equipment and structures
Rodent Research Sample Relocation          

Completed Task List Items

Wanted HEPA Filter search
Lab Router Reconfig
Food Restow 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

RRM Install in Dragon Trunk
MCA Lab/N3 Humidity Comparison
Cygnus Prox Checkout
EWC WAP Checkout using WHDC
SPDM Stow 

