
Engineered Heart Tissue (EHT):  The crew performed steps to troubleshoot noise seen in the data for the EHT habitats.  Ground teams report if they can isolate the source of the noise, the can factor it out of the data.  A Human iPSC (induced Pluripotent Stem Cell)-based 3D Microphysiological System for Modeling Cardiac Dysfunction in Microgravity (Engineered Heart Tissues) assesses human cardiac function in microgravity. It uses 3D cultured cardiac muscle tissue that mimics the architecture and function of adult human cardiac muscle. A magnet-based sensor placed underneath the tissue culture chamber allows real-time, non-destructive analysis of the functional performance and maturation of the tissues in space, which is compared with those cultured on Earth.
Fluid Shifts: The crew performed activities related to the Chibis (lower body negative pressure) portion of the investigation.  Some issues were encountered with the Ultrasound video, but the team was able to work around it.  Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
MVP2 (Multi-use Variable-g Platform) Cell-03 fixation: The crew removed the Emory Modules from MVP-2, took a 7ml sample, injected the sample into a fixation bag, and then inserted Emory Modules back into the MVP-2 facility to continue the Cell-03 investigation.  The term ‘fixation’ refers to preservation of a sample for later analysis.  There are several different fixation methods available, depending on the sample targets of interest.  MVP2 Cell-03 studies the generation of cardiomyocytes, specialized heart muscle cells, for use in research and clinical applications. Specifically, the team is studying the differentiation of these heart cells from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), adult cells that have been altered to reinstate characteristics of natural stem cells. Simulated microgravity studies have allowed the team to increase the yield, purity, and survival of cardiomyocytes derived from iPSCs, and true spaceflight conditions are expected to further enhance these effects. Understanding how microgravity improves cardiomyocyte differentiation will enable the team to create clinically relevant heart tissue for use in regenerative medicine, disease modeling, and drug discovery.
Nanoracks Module-51: The crew performed the second status check on the sub-investigations contained within the Mod-51 experiment box.  These sub experiments are the Vitamin-C Flask with syringe, Waxworm flask, Adipic acid and Venom flex plates, Yeast and amylase mixture tubes, and Flask with Flatworms.  Inspections of the experiments went well and the hardware was stowed.  Nanoracks Mod-51 itself is an aluminum module with a Velcro lid that can accommodate various sub-experiments.
Nanoracks Module-72A troubleshooting:  The crew performed steps to attempt recovery of communication with the Nanoracks Mod-72A.  The troubleshooting was successful and Module 72A was subsequently powered up and began the transfer of log files.  These issues have been on-going for about a week and could be due to a bad or loose USB connection.  Module-72A has a Raspberry Pi Zero board and several sensors. This is an educational payload that allows students to code their own software experiments and have them collect data on the ISS.
OsteoOmics-2 fixation: The crew attempted to perform the fixation operations on the remaining two OsteoOmics-2 Biocells contained in habitat 3.  One of the biocells had a small area of cloudiness and fixation was performed on it.  The other Biocell had more cloudiness (contamination) and was bagged and frozen.  The ground team is assessing the possible source of the contamination, which has affected the majority of the 24 total BioCells in the 4 habitats.  Millions of Americans experience bone loss, which results from disease or the reduced effects of gravity that can occur in bed-ridden patients. OsteoOmics tests whether magnetic levitation accurately simulates the free-fall conditions of microgravity by comparing genetic expression osteoblastic cells, a type of bone cell, levitated in a high-field superconducting magnet with cells flown in low-Earth orbit. This information helps scientists determine the molecular and metabolic changes that take place in magnetic levitation and real microgravity. 
Systems
SpaceX 20 (SpX-20) Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew continued to perform Dragon cargo operations today. Ground teams estimate ~ 57 hours of cargo operations remain prior to Dragon departure planned for April 6, 2020.   
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Multi-use Variable-g Platform-02 Cell-03 Fixation
SPDM MISSE Sample Carrier Transfer
PRO LSG Facility Commanding
CHeCS Commanding/Data Downlink
SDMS Activation
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Service Module Scan Subject
VDS Robotics Ground Deconfiguration

Lookahead Plan
Wednesday, 3/18 (GMT 078)
Payloads:


Fluid Shifts
JWRS check 2
MELFI icebrick insertions
MVP2 Cell-03
OsteoOmics fixation
PAUL
Probiotics

Systems:

THC Intermodule Ventilation IMV Survey

Thursday, 3/19 (GMT 079)
Payloads:


Engineered Heart Tissue
ISS Experience
ISS HAM pass
MUSES server vent clean
MVP2 Cell-03
MELFI icebrick insertions
TangoLab2

Systems:

RGN Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly Fill
74P transfer operations

Friday, 3/20 (GMT 080)
Payloads:


Acoustic Diagnostics
CGBA4 maintenance
Food Acceptability
Food Physiology
ISS Experience
MELFI icebrick insertions
Nanoracks Adidas Shoes
PL NAS vent clean
Radi-N2 deploy

Systems:

EMU Hard Upper Torso Remove and Replace
Node 3 MCA ORU 2 R&R
RGN Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Leak Check 

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


ECON-M. Observation and Photography
SCENARY. Observation and photography of catastrophic events and their aftermath
Reminder 2 Fluid Shifts Imaging Measures With Chibis Service Module
МО-8. Configuration Setup
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
МО-8. Closeout Ops
Astrobee Battery Setup
LSG Work Volume Deploy
Multi-use Variable-g Platform-02 MWA Preparation
Nanoracks Module-51 Status 2
On MCC Go Regeneration Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф1 Absorption  Cartridge, terminate
On MCC Go Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Cartridge, initiate
FLUID SHIFTS. Comm configuration for the experiment
FLUID SHIFTS. Gathering and Connecting Equipment for TV conference.
FLUID SHIFTS. Activation of РБС for Ultrasound Equipment
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Service Module Power On And Preparation
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
FLUID SHIFTS. Assistance with CHIBIS set and [KMA-01] Medical Hardware operations.
FLUID SHIFTS. Don Chibis
Astrobee Battery Swap
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Service Module Scan
FLUID SHIFTS. Doff Chibis
Multi-use Variable-g Platform-02 Cell-03 Fix
FLUID SHIFTS. Disconnect РБС and Ultrasound (USND) P/L from РБС
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Service Module Stow
Fluid Shifts SSC Cable Setup
FLUID SHIFTS. Connecting SSC1 to Ethernet
Multi-use Variable-g Platform-02 Historical Documentation Photography
FLUID SHIFTS. Deactivation of КСПЭ Equipment and Closing Applications on  SSC1
Probiotics Item Gathering
Fluid Shifts HRF PC CCFP Service Module Setup
FLUID SHIFTS. Restore nominal comm config
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Hardware Transfer
Astrobee Battery Swap
Cargo Transfer from and to Dragon
Multi-Use Variable-G Platform-02 Sample MELFI Insertion 1
EXPRESS Rack10B Payload MTL Flow Rate Adjust
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
On MCC Go Purging Elektron-VM Liquid Unit (БЖ) after Shutdown
LSG Primary Crew Restraint Unfold
OsteoOmics Fixation Operations
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Inventory Audit for DC1 Operations.
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
OsteoOmics Saline Kit Relocate
Astrobee Battery Stow
ISS Experience Solid State Drive Changeout
Progress 443 (DC1) Cargo Transfers and IMS Ops
Engineered Heart Tissue Data Test
Nanoracks Module-72A Troubleshooting
OsteoOmics-2 MELFI Sample Insertion
MELFI 3 Ice Brick Insert 7
Reminder 2 Fluid Shifts Imaging Measures With Chibis Service Module

 