
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Fuel Oxidizer Management Assembly (FOMA): The crew performed the FOMA calibration preparatory activities which consisted of closing and opening the appropriate valves on manifold bottles and the GIP (gas interface panel).  The FOMA calibration is a periodic activity required to support CIR science operations. CIR provides sustained, systematic microgravity combustion research and it houses hardware capable of performing combustion experiments to further research of combustion in microgravity.
ISS Experience Hardware Stow: At the end of last week and over the weekend, the crew set up the ISS Experience hardware to observe 58 Soyuz arrival and to record a crewmember’s log. The hardware was then torn down and stowed.  The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The ground team will create 8 to 10 minute videos from footage taken during the six-month investigation covering different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Veg-03H: The crew performed plant thinning and pillow priming over the weekend.  The plant thinning activity removed all but one plant from each pillow, leaving the largest seedling in each plant pillow to continue growing. In order to ensure successful germination of at least one seed, the ground planted 3 seeds in each of the plant pillows.  The plant pillow prime activity adds water to support continued hydration of the plants. The plant pillows in the Veg-03H investigation contain Wasabi Mustard Green and Extra Dwarf Pok Choi seeds.  Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans but future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03H uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate Extra Dwarf Pak Choi and Wasabi mustard which are harvested on-orbit.
U.S. Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for the EVA scheduled on March 22, the crew prepared the Equipment Lock, Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) 3003 and 3008, and ancillary hardware to support EVA prep activities.
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of 58S, all six crew members reviewed and practiced priorities during emergency response including safety of the crew followed by achieving a safe configuration of the ISS. Some of the topics covered included crew accountability, escape vehicle access, ISS Commander responsibilities, and communications and coordination.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Ops: On Saturday, Robotics Ground Controllers commanded the Mobile Transporter (MT) to translate from Worksite (WS) 3 to WS 6. They powered up MSS, maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on the Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload and Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) #2. After releasing SPDM PDGF, Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to walk off onto the MBS PDGF 4. After releasing Node 2 PDGF, SSRMS was maneuvered to unstow SPDM from MBS PDF2 and the whole MSS was then configured for translation. The MT was translated from WS6 to WS7 and SSRMS and SPDM were positioned at the start of the Battery R&R operations. Finally, the SPDM Enhanced On-Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Temporary Platform (EOTP) was rotated. These activities were to set up for US EVA #52 scheduled for this Friday, March 22.
Completed Task List Activities:
Saturday, March 16:


Deck CQ battery t/s
Vacuum cleaner return to service
Wanter poster re: urine funnels
58S unpack

Sunday, March 17:

H-Bolt info in prep for battery EVA
EVA DOUG review
JEM stowage consolidation for NG-11, SpX-17 arrival

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


EVA prep support 

Look Ahead:  
Tuesday, 03/19 (GMT 078):
Payloads:


AWP
Food Acceptability questionnaire
JAXA blood collection
Lighting Effects
Marrow
Radi-N2 deploy
Vection

Systems:

EVA preparations

tool config
procedures review and conference
DOUG review
EMU resize


58S unpack

Wednesday, 03/20 (GMT 079):
Payloads:


Behavioral Core Measure
ISS HAM pass
Lighting Effects
JAXA blood collection
Time Perception
MUSES server vent clean
Standard Measures

Systems:

OBT emergency hardware familiarization
EVA preparations

tool config
tool audit
photo/TV camera config
SAFER rescue practice using VR trainer



Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


МО-8. Configuration Setup
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
МО-8. Body Mass Measurement
Postsleep
МО-8. Closeout Ops
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Equipment Lock Preparation Part 1
Icebrick Cleanup
JEM 120 to 28 VDC Conv Mesh Cleaning
KORREKTSIYA. Log Entry of Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
KOSMOKARD. 24hr electrocardiogram recording (prep + init).
Deactivation of Soyuz 741 Gas Analyzer
MERLIN Desiccant Swap
Checking condition of power cables on VOZDUKH Atmosphere Revitalization Subsystem [СОА].
Assessing condition of connectors and cables connected to БОК-3 device (panels 407, 408) for moisture or corrosion.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV) Intravehicular (IV)
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Session
Crew Time for ISS Adaptation and Orientation
Recharging Soyuz 741 GoPro HERO3 Batteries (6), start
Soyuz 742 delivered ODF replacement
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Charging EVA Camera D4 Battery
Auxiliary Laptop Computer System Virus Definition File Update
KORREKTSIYA. Log Entry of Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
Deactivation of Gas Analyzer in Soyuz 742
Soyuz 742 Cargo Transfers and IMS Ops
Combustion Integrated Rack FOMA Calibration Valve Close
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Arrival Private Medical Conference (PMC)
ISS Experience Hardware Stow
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Session
Port CQ Initial Troubleshooting
Recharging Soyuz 741 GoPro HERO3 Batteries (6), – end
Early Mission Debrief Conference
Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) Checkout
IMS Delta File Prep
ISS Crew Adaptation
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config JEM Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review
Combustion Integrated Rack FOMA Calibration Valve Open
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Generic Frozen Blood Collection Setup First time

 