
Payloads:
Immunity Assay: In continuation of the multi-day experiment session, science samples were processed in the Human Research Facility (HRF) centrifuge. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test. Up until now, this test could only be accomplished on Earth, and conducted pre- and postflight. With the help of a newly developed assay tube, researchers can also execute this test inflight, which allows for a much clearer assessment of the immune changes that happen in flight.
Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument (SODI)/Particle Vibration: The crew gained access to the Particle Vibration hardware in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), and exchanged the Cell Array and data disk. This allows the performance of another set of experiment runs over the next 40+ days. Thermovibrationally-driven Particle Self-Assembly and Ordering mechanisms in Low grAvity (Particle Vibration) project aims to investigate the self-organization mechanisms of particles in fluids. The outcomes of the project have various implications in the science of materials (development of novel manufacturing techniques) and astrophysics (understanding of the mechanisms responsible for the formation of asteroids and planets).
Sphere Camera-1 (SphereCam-1): SphereCam-1 was used to record support equipment and Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) suits in the US airlock area. SphereCam-1 uses a commercial off-the-shelf ultra-high resolution digital movie camera with a wide-angle lens to collect footage in microgravity and evaluate technical performance of the camera. Investigators plan to use results to design and develop subsequent cameras for testing and, ultimately, provide a product that could support groundbreaking imaging of space with greater resolution, detail, and sharpness than anything currently available commercially.
STEMonstration: A STEMonstration activity was performed using the Veggie facility as a talking point. STEMonstrations are short 3–5-minute educational videos that use the unique microgravity environment aboard the ISS to demonstrate popular K-12 Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) topics. Each STEMonstration has a corresponding Classroom Connection lesson plan teachers can use in K-12 classrooms to further engage students in STEMonstration topics.
Veg-05: The crew accessed the Veggie facilities and performed a video inspection of the Red Robin tomato plants currently growing. Only two of the current crop of tomatoes were red, and they were not quite ready for harvest. No tomatoes were harvested today as a result, and all tomatoes will be inspected again at the next harvest. This is the second of several harvest attempts scheduled for the experiment, which was started in mid-December. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. The research of Veg-05 expands crop variety to dwarf tomatoes and focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on fruit production, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.
Systems:
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: The crew used the Velocicalc tool to take Velocicalc measurements of selected USOS ventilation inlets and outlets as part of system health monitoring. In addition, the crew performed IMV inspections in Node 1, Node 2, Node 3, A/L, Cupola, LAB, IDA Fwd, IDA Zen, BEAM, NRAL. IMV refers to the air circulation between modules. The system consists primarily of a number of valves, fans, and air ducts that circulate air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that excessive moisture, heat, particulates, metabolic products, and contaminant can be removed from the atmosphere, smoke detection can be performed, and a homogenous conditioned atmospheric composition is maintained throughout the ISS.
SpX-27 Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew completed a review of the SpX-27 cargo operations. The overview consisted of references for temp stowing in the vehicle, location coding, straps, choreography for unloading bags, loading bags, ziplocks, bubble wrap, foam and more. Following that, the crew participated with ground teams in a conference to further discuss the cargo operations overview.
Eye Exams: The crew completed routine Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) eye exams today. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Completed Task List Activities:

SSC Tablet Connect
MED OPS Procedure Print and Replace

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PAUL C/O Commanding to Payload While on Dragon
BCDU Firmware Load
THC IMV Flow Measurement Survey
Payload Rack Officer Fluids Integrated Rack Activation Commanding
Big Fix Patch

