
Payloads
Asian Herbs in Space: The crew preserved samples in a Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and closed out the Asian Herb 30-day plant growth experiment. Microgravity affects the growth of plants and understanding the nature of these changes is important for future missions that will rely on plants for food. Asian Herbs in Space studies fast-growing plants used for traditional medicine and flavoring food, examining differences in their aroma that may result from microgravity-related cellular changes. This investigation benefits future plant growth efforts in space and provides new information on the formation of aroma compounds in common herbs.
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS-3D): The crew checked the DOSIS Main Box LEDs in order to gather information on the DOSIS Main Box Status. ISS crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation which can be harmful to their health. DOSIS-3D uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS.
Industrial Crystallization Facility (ICF): The crew swapped out the Single Crystal Growth Chamber (SCGC) module in the ICF. There was some initial difficult getting a good connection, but this was resolved. The ICF is a small chamber that allows crystals to grow over time into large crystals appropriate for use in science labs on Earth. When grown in the microgravity environment of the ISS, the crystals are of much higher quality than those currently grown on Earth.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD)-16 Removal: Following the deployment of the satellites on Sunday, and in preparation of the next satellite deployer to use the JEM airlock, the J-SSOD-16 hardware was removed from the slide table. The J-SSOD provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
Life Support Rack (LSR): As part of the LSR maintenance, the crew replaced the hydrogen sensor with a spare unit. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. LSR captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR operates for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Systems
Post Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: The crew completed several activities to prepare EVA equipment for long-term stow. First, the crew stowed EVA tools. Next, the crew performed a cooling loop scrub and iodination for Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3009. Finally, the crew terminated the final Metal Oxide (METOX) regeneration cycle.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement: As part of system health monitoring, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through selected ventilation inlets and outlets. Today’s measurements were taken in Node 1, Node 2, Node 3, the Oxygen Generation System (OGS) rack, Cupola, and LAB. Additionally, the crew used the Carbon Dioxide Monitor (CDM) to take CO2 measurements in the SM, LAB, and Node 3 modules to ensure good Carbon Dioxide dispersion across the United States On-orbit Segment (USOS).
Crew-1 Rock Catcher Construction: The crew constructed a “Rock Catcher” which will eventually be installed over the IMV inlet in Node 2 that leads to the Node 2 zenith docking port. The Rock Catcher is a device that is built on-orbit to create a barrier for the IMV inlet to ensure that the airflow path to the Visiting Vehicle (VV) is protected. Although Crew-1 is currently docked to Node 2 forward, Crew-1 will relocate to Node 2 zenith prior to Crew-2 arrival.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Monthly Inspection: As part of regular maintenance to ensure that the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition, the crew inspected all four Snubber Arms for any sign of free play as well as make any necessary adjustments to reduce the free play.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) Activation
WPA Troubleshooting for Catalytic Reactor Ops
EMU Loop Scrub Commanding
IMV Flow Measure Commanding

