
Ocular Health (OH), Fundoscope: Kopra and Peake continued with OH and Fundoscope operations which are ongoing this week.
 
Dose Tracker:  Kopra and Peake completed entries for medication tracking early this morning.  This investigation documents the medication usage of crew members before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
 
OA-6 Preparations: Kopra and Peake completed another session of Robotics On-Board Trainer (RoBOT) On-Board Training (OBT) in preparation for OA-6 arrival. The procedure included a 30 meter approach, two Capture Point hold runs and 2 meter runs. Following RoBOT training Peake utilized the Auto Run Tool to continue practicing 2 meter and 30 meter approach runs. Also in preparation for OA-6, the crew unlatched the Node 1 Nadir hatch.
 
Air Quality Monitor (AQM) Sieve Cartridge Troubleshooting: On February 3, during activation and checkout of AQM #1005 the crew received a “Not Ready” status. It was suspected that the issue is with a sieve cartridge. Kopra removed the old cartridges from AQM #1005 and replaced it with new ones to confirm whether the issue was due to a bad cartridge or the unit itself.  Initial results of ground commanding indicate that the cause was a bad cartridge and is now resolved.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: On October 8, 2015, during Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) operations, invalid joint position and Resolver-to-Digital (RDC) Built-In-Test (BIT) errors were seen. Last evening, Robotics Ground Controllers performed Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm2 Shoulder Yaw (SY) joint characterization.  The characterization was completed with no test failures and no recurrence of the anomaly.  Data collected will be analyzed to help characterize the original anomaly.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

OCT Hardware Setup
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Data export from БСПН Payload Server to RSS1 (start)  r/g 1677
DOSETRK – Questionnaire Completion
RS1 Laptop Displays Update Check r/g 1671
WRS Water Sample Analysis
DOSETRK – Questionnaire Completion
Health Management System (HMS) – OCT – Subject
PAO hardware setup
Health Management System (HMS) – OCT – Operator
Voice check in S/G1 from Baikonur
Crew Prep for PAO / r/g 1676
TV PAO with the Participants of Pan-Russian Schoolchildren Conference  “Step into the Future, Cosmonautics” r/g 1676
Health Management System (HMS) – OCT – Operator
Health Management System (HMS) – OCT – Subject
Water Transfer to EDV from Progress 431 (DC1) H2O Tank 2 using compressor and H2O Tank Bladder Compression / r/g 1675
OCT Hardware Stowage
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring / r/g 1588
TOCA Data Recording
Unlatching N1 Nadir Hatch Hardstops
On MCC Go Filling up Progress 429 (Aft) СрПК Section 2 with N2
IMS Tagup (S-band)
Onboard Training (OBT) – Dragon Rendezvous and Berthing Procedures Review
СОЖ Maintenance
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Data export from БСПН Payload Server to RSS1 (end) r/g 1677
Environmental Health System (EHS) – AQM Checkout
Onboard Training (OBT) – Dragon Rendezvous and Berthing Procedures Review
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Fundoscope Setup
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Fundoscope Prep
On MCC GO Closeout Ops after H2O Tank 2 Bladder Compression in Progress 431 (DC1) Rodnik system
IDENTIFICATION. Copy ИМУ-Ц micro-accelerometer data to laptop / r/g 1589
Fundoscope – Eye Exam
Fundoscope – Eye Exam CMO
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Fundoscope Prep
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops / r/g 1663
Fundoscope – Eye Exam CMO
Fundoscope – Eye Exam
URISYS Hardware Setup r/g 1673
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Fundoscope Teardown and Stowage

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

OH support
Cygnus RoBOT OBT support
Nominal ground commanding

 
