03-13-2010March 13, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 03/13/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – light-duty day.   At wake-up, FE-1 Suraev performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters tonight before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   For the biomed experiment INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function), Jeff Williams & Timothy Creamer completed their scheduled liquid saliva collection session, starting right after wake-up, using a “salivette” pouch from the kits to be returned to Earth on Soyuz 20S.  Saliva samples are taken every other day for six days, and the samples are stored at ambient temperature.     [Along with NUTRITION (Nutritional Status Assessment), INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples & analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned to the ground so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]   CDR Williams & FE-5 Noguchi began the 24-hr urine sample collections set up yesterday for the Generic HRF (Human Research Facility) Blood & Urine Activities.  Each sample was scanned and ID’d before being stowed in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).      [Based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities, the generic blood & urine procedures were created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]   The five station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   As part of the house cleaning, Suraev & Kotov conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and also Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).   To get physically ready for his return to gravity next week, FE-1 Suraev completed his fourth (of five) preparatory orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test session with the Russian Chibis suit, conducting the MedOps MO-4 exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill.   With Oleg Kotov acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer), Maxim was supported in his 55-min session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 7:15am on DO1.  There will be one more run.      [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Suraev’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  Data output includes blood pressure readings.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by one cycle of a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -25, -30, -35 and -40 mmHg for five min. each, while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, while wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]   In the SM, the FE-1 also did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Jeff Williams worked on the mechanism of the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) to disable the two upper stop cables which were found to be damaged, with the right one frayed beyond use and the left cable kinked.     [Without the upper cable stops, the ARED was determined to be safe for any cable exercises except for bar exercises, i.e., with the body in an upright position as for squats and heel raises.  Squats being the most beneficial exercises on ARED, exercise specialists are currently working hard on a workaround for these two exercises for the crew.]    In the Soyuz TMA-16/20S, Suraev switched the BVN air heater fan to run without heater.   The FE-1 also downlinked high-definition video footage shot in the last few days for the Russian TVTs television channel for his “News From Weightlessness” series on his voluntary task list, using USOS Ku-band assets for the HD downlink.     [“Dear viewers, this is Maxim Suraev and this is the last episode of “News From Weightlessness”.  As you probably know, on March 18 Jeff Williams and I will return to the ground.  I have already started preparations.  A few months back, my friend Roman Romanenko also did exercises in these pants that create negative pressure in the lower portion of your body.  Romka, see you soon!  For almost three weeks, Oleg Kotov will remain the only cosmonaut on the Russian segment. Oleg has a twofold objective. He will not only be in charge of the Russian segment but of the entire station.  He will replace Jeff in this capacity a few days before undocking….”]   Timothy Creamer filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   Jobs listed for Suraev & Kotov for today on the Russian discretionary “as time permits” task list were –  Newsreel shooting for the      photo- & video database (Flight Chronicle) of ISS Increment 22,      using the SONY HVR-Z7 high-definition camcorder, Activating the water pump      for Root Module #22 of the BIO-5      Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment for 10 minutes, Another run of the GFI-8 "Uragan"      (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D2X digital camera      photography with 800mm telelens (targets: focusing on flooding of five      small water reservoirs after dam breach in the north from Kapchaghai      reservoir in the steppe because of the melting snow, overall view of Aral,      vestiges of flood after tsunami hit the coast of Chile, and sea currents      in the Caribbean, Sargasso and Pacific seas), A session for Russia's EKON Environmental      Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of      environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera, and Pumping urine from the SM      to the BV2 tank      of Progress M-03M/35P.     At ~9:05am EST, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   At ~10:10am, Max & Oleg powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 10:15am conducted a ham radio session with students, municipal administration staff & media at the municipal extra-curricular educational institution of the Russian city of Orel.   At ~10:45am, the entire crew downlinked a TV message of greeting & congratulations to Yuri Nikolayevich Koptev for his 70th birthday today.      [Yuri Koptev, well known and highly respected in the international space community, was Director General of Roskosmos from 1992-2004, instrumental in the forging of the international partnership of the ISS and closing down the Mir space station.]   At ~11:00am, CDR Williams held his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).   The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1/ODNT, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive device (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-4).  ARED Issue:  See above.   IWIS Thruster Test Update:   The IWIS (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System) test with Russian thrusters (not a Soyuz thruster test, as reported here) on 3/12 to “excite” the 4A solar array for structural dynamics measurements was aborted due to the large number of CMG (Control Moment Gyroscope) desaturations required (~58 in 50 mins) and the increasing attitude error of the station (15 deg, mostly in yaw). The test will be rescheduled.    [For the IWIS thruster test, the ISS has to be in free drift.  Desats reduce the accumulated momentum of the CMGs of the US MCS (Motion Control System).]   20S Thruster Test:   The standard Soyuz pre-undocking thruster test is scheduled for 3/15 (Monday) at ~5:47am EDT.  SSU Shunt Test:    Also on 3/15, beginning at 1:33pm EDT and running through three orbits for 20 min each (1:33pm-1:53pm; 3:05pm-3:25pm; 4:36pm-4:56pm), MCC-H will perform the periodic U.S. solar array efficiency test, which assesses the degradation of the photovoltaics over time.  Before the test, at 1:00pm, the BGAs (Beta Gimbal Assemblies) will be moded to Autotrack (from fixed dual-angle, i.e., no auto biasing) to improve power generation during the test, and afterwards returned to dual angle, with "night glider" drag reduction feathering.    [For the test, the solar array output is shunted (switched) for ~10 min before and unshunted ~2 min after entering eclipse (Earth shadow) such that the circuit current of the SSUs (Sequential Shunt Units) can be recorded to determine solar array output capability.  The amount of current shunted by the arrays will decrease slowly over time as they degrade in the orbital environment.  The test is performed periodically (approximately twice a year) at a Beta angle of 0 plus/minus 5 deg. to allow engineers to track the performance over time and compare degradation trends against the a priori (expected) curve.]    Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Two -- Week 15)   3-D SPACE:    “Thanks TJ for the performance of your third 3D-SPACE session.“  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    “Jeff, we look forward to receiving the photos which you took of the cable connection to ALTEA.  Thank you for assisting us with our troubleshooting efforts, for alerting us that the cable would not remain secure and thus recommending to leave ALTEA powered off.”  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:   No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   “TJ, thanks for your dedication during the TAGES 3B harvest.  The 3B experiment was originally planned as telescience only with no tissue recovered; the tissue preserved in the actuated KFT will provide much appreciated extra data to the investigator.”  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):   No report.   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   Measurement and data D/L completed on 3/5-3/6.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    “Jeff: Your last pill ingestion is scheduled for 3/14.  You will be taking pictures of your Alendronate Pill Card and Comment Card after the ingestion activity.  We look forward to seeing you on the ground. Thank you for participating in Bisphosphonates!  Soichi: Your next session is scheduled for 3/14”.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    “The blood draw which could not be performed on 3/2 was performed on 3/9.  After the blood collection was completed, the samples were inserted into the HRF2 centrifuge.  A minor issue occurred with a wrong centrifuge setting for the first sample set. Impacts – if any – will be assessed upon samples return.  There were no issues for the second sample set, and all samples have been transferred to MELFI Dewar 3. Thanks, Jeff, for your contributions to these activities.”  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    Frozen Samples moved to GLACIER.  Sample will be returned by 20A.  CETSOL (ESA):   2 processed sample cartridge assemblies (SCAs) were successfully returned on 20A.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.     DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    A data downlink was performed on 3/9.  In the downlinked data, there is a relatively small data gap. This is under investigation.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):     No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    No report.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):    No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    The video shooting was completed this week, and the close-out is planned for 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    “The purpose of this EPO activity is to enhance the public’s interest in physical phenomena in Space.  This includes Center of Mass, Conservation of momentum, Newton’s Third Law, Law of Reciprocal, Posture and Spin bodies.  The activity was completed as Voluntary Science on 3/6.  The movie was televised, and was also on HP and YouTube.  Excellent Job!  Many thanks, Soichi.”  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):    “On 3/10, FIR/LMM characterized the LMM Microscope with the 50x magnification and the LMM Test Target.  Image data was taken during crew wake with and without exercise and during crew sleep periods.  This data will be assessed over the next few days.  The minor issue with the CVB Surveillance Camera was resolved, and the camera is functioning properly.  All other features of LMM tested to date are also functioning properly.  Thank you to all crew members who notified the POIC when a particular exercise activity was not performed per the schedule.  Your diligence has helped us to obtain the highest quality data.  We look forward to the next step, which is the installation of the CVB Module - 30 mm Pentane.”  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   Tapes were returned on ULF3.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):   The FSL handle repair was successfully completed on 3/4.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 544 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    “Jeff: With the exception of one last data download, you have completed all of your ICV on-orbit sessions!  We understand that the tasks associated with ICV have been challenging, and the experiment team truly does appreciate all of your considerable efforts to ensure experiment success.  We look forward to seeing you on the ground for some final BDC sessions.”   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   “Jeff: We look forward to receiving your last set of Integrated Immune samples on the ground next week upon landing.  Thank you for your participation in Integrated Immune!”  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    No report.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  Marangoni UVP:   Data acquisition for the series of experiments 1-7 and an MMA data downlink have been completed.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MICAST (ESA):    2 processed sample cartridge assemblies (SCAs) successfully downloaded on 20A.  Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE7 (Materials ISS Experiment):   To prevent overheating during increasing beta angles, MISSE7 PEC 7b was shut down 2/22 Feb.  PEC 7b was returned to normal operations on 3/10.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory):    No report.   MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.   MYCO 1 (JAXA):    Sample Collection and MELFI stow are complete.  Sample will return on 20A using DCB (Double Cold Bag).  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    The first sample recovery was successfully completed on 3/5.  The downlinked images of the sample attachment have been obtained.  The next sample recovery was planned for 3/12.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    “Jeff: You will be completing your final Nutrition/Repository session next week.  Thank you for your participation in Nutrition/Repository!”   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “Jeff: The actual number of tests you will complete is 108.  The number we have been carrying, 121, was a planning number.  Thank you for your participation as the first Reaction Self Test subject!  TJ and Soichi: You have now completed 40 test sessions!”   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    A CGSE/CBEF CO2 leak check has been completed.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Jeff and TJ:  You have completed another week of Sleep logging.  Jeff: Your only remaining activity will be doffing and stowing your Actiwatch prior to Soyuz undock.  TJ will download it during the next session.”  SMILES (JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     “Jeff, we greatly appreciate your efforts in helping to troubleshoot the SODI-DSC hardware.  Unfortunately, we had no joy since we were unable to get SODI to boot up properly.  At this point, we need further in-depth analysis of the hardware and decided to remove SODI from the MSG to allow for the preparation and setup of the next payload to operate in MSG.”  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):     The Sun observation window #26 started on 3/9.  Some minor data gaps were noticed at the beginning of the sun visibility window due to the COL HRM issue. SOLACES & SOLSPEC both require science data.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):     No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   “Jeff: We look forward to the completion of the final SWAB session, scheduled for 3/14.  Thank you for all your work in wrapping up the SWAB sample collections that began in Increment 13!”  THERMOLAB (ESA):   No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   “Jeff, thanks for completing your blood draw.  The PI team will be in Russia to welcome you back and complete post-flight BDC with you.” VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):    Through 3/10, a total of 74,743 frames of ISS/CEO imagery were received on the ground for review and cataloging.  “Congratulations!  This count exceeds the previous record for an increment of 74,151 frames acquired in Increment 13.  We are pleased to report your acquisition of imagery for the following CEO Target Requests:  Ascension Island, Atlantic Ocean – excellent, sharp views – few more clouds present than we anticipated; Phnom Penh, Cambodia – fine views – all requirements are met for this target; Galapagos Island, Ecuador – more clouds than we anticipated; and Rangoon, Myanmar – several fine view – under evaluation for completion of requirements.  Your striking image of Sir Bani Yas Island, United Arab Emirates will be published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website this weekend.  This Persian Gulf island, geologically above a salt dome, is a striking example of intensive human land use and changes in an otherwise desert area.  Nice shot!”   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Victoria, Seychelles (ISS had a nadir pass in early afternoon and fair weather over capital city of the Republic of Seychelles.  The crew has successfully located this target earlier, but clouds have continued to obscure parts of their views.  Victoria is located on the northeastern side of Mahe Island, the largest island of the archipelago), Djibouti, Djibouti (in early afternoon light, the crew had a clear weather pass near the capital city of the Republic of Djibouti.  As ISS approached the coast from the SW, the crew was to look near nadir.  The city of Djibouti is situated on a small peninsula that divides the Gulf of Aden from the Gulf of Tadjoura), Lake Nasser, Toshka Lakes, Egypt (the Toshka Lakes formed in the late 1990’s when record high water in the Nile River and Lake Nasser spilled out into desert depressions to the west.  Since then the lakes have persisted, but continue to slowly dry up.  The crew was asked to update CEO monitoring records of this event with nadir context views of the lakes.  Looking for them as ISS approached the Nile River valley from the SW.  It was early afternoon with clear weather expected), Chiloe Island, southern Chile (HMS Beagle Site:  Darwin and the Beagle arrived at this island on June 12, 1834, but after gathering provisions and surveying the west coast, departed the following day.  Darwin hated the place because it never stopped raining!  Looking for this large, rugged and forested island as ISS approached the southern coast of Chile from the SW.  It was mid-morning with fair weather conditions expected for this near-nadir pass.  Trying for context views of the island as a whole), Praia, Cape Verde (this capital city was in nadir as ISS approached the area of the Cape Verde Islands from the SW.  Fair weather in mid-afternoon light was expected today.  Looking for Praia on the SE coast of the large island of Sao Tiago), Paramaribo, Suriname (ISS had a midday pass in fair weather over the capital and largest city of Suriname.  This city of about one quarter of a million is located on the banks of the Suriname River approximately 15 km inland from the Atlantic Ocean), and Santa Maria Volcano, Guatemala (ISS had an early afternoon, fair-weather pass of this active volcano as the crew tracked northeastward over northern Central America.  The symmetrical cone of the stratovolcano is located to the SW of the city of Quezaltenango, and has a large, oblong crater along the southwestern face of the cone.  An active lava dome, Santiaguito, is located within the crater.  Overlapping mapping frames of the volcano flanks and summit, particularly the crater region, were requested.  Looking just left of track after the station crossed the coast).  