03-11-2011March 11, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 03/11/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  CDR Scott Kelly continued his current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 9th session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.] Kelly also performed his last (Flight Day 150) NUTRITION w/Repository blood sample draw, with FE-6 Coleman assisting with the phlebotomy.  The CDR then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).     [Generic blood & urine procedures are used which allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.  Urine samples go into MELFI within 30 minutes after collection.  Every individual urine/blood sample tube must be labeled with time of void and Crew ID.  Barcodes can be called down, placed in crew notes or the barcode reader can be used.  For the blood draw, there is a prior 8-hr fasting requirement, i.e., no food or drink, but water consumption is highly encouraged to ensure proper hydration.  Exercise should not be conducted during the 8 hrs prior to the blood draw.] Time again for recharge of the Motorola Iridium-9505A satellite phones in the Soyuz Descent Modules: completed by Dmitri Kondratyev for TMA-20/25S (#230, at MRM1) and by Oleg Skripochka for TMA-01M/24S (#701, docked at MRM2), a monthly routine job and Dima’s 2nd, Sasha’s 3rd.       [After retrieving the phones from their location in the spacecraft Descent Modules (SA, spuskayemyy apparat), the crewmembers initiated the recharge of the lithium-ion batteries, monitoring the process every 10-15 minutes as it took place.  Upon completion, the phones were returned inside their SSSP Iridium kits and stowed back in the SA’s ODF (operational data files) container.  The satphone accompanies returning ISS crews on Soyuz reentry & landing for contingency communications with SAR (Search-and-Rescue) personnel after touchdown (e.g., after an “undershoot” ballistic reentry, as happened during the 15S return).  The Russian-developed procedure for the monthly recharging has been approved jointly by safety officials.  During the procedure, the phone is left in its fire-protective fluoroplastic bag with open flap.  The Iridium 9505A satphone uses the Iridium constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to relay the landed Soyuz capsule's GPS (Global Positioning System) coordinates to helicopter-borne recovery crews.  The older Iridium-9505 phones were first put on board Soyuz in August 2003.  The newer 9505A phone, currently in use, delivers 30 hours of standby time and three hours of talk, up from 20 and two hours, respectively, on the older units.] In Soyuz 24S, Alex Kaleri removed the BlP (Console Logic Unit/blok logiki pul’ta) for the BVN Air Heater Fan in the BO Orbital Module and swapped it with the scavenged BlP from Progress 41P (#409), docked at DC1 Nadir.  Ground specialist tagup supported.    [The BVN fans in both spacecraft were turned off temporarily and then switched back on.] FE-4 Kondratyev closed out the Russian technical experiment KPT-24 TEST.  The equipment was unbolted and packed for return on Soyuz 24S.      [KPT-24 TEST studies look for potential microdestruction of structures in RS (Russian Segment) pressurized compartments by deposits of aggressive products and components of the cabin atmosphere.] Skripochka collected & downloaded the periodic sensor readings of the Russian “Pille-MKS” (MKS = ISS) radiation dosimetry experiment which has 11 sensors placed at various locations in the RS (DC1, SM starboard & port cabin windows, ASU toilet facility, control panel, MRM2, etc.), plus one, the “duty” dosimeter, in the Reader.  Today’s readings were taken from all 11 deployed dosimeters, and the memory card with the data was added to the items to be returned on 24S.     [The dosimeters take their readings automatically every 90 minutes.] Kelly, Nespoli & Coleman finishing Part 2 Outfitting of the Node-2 Nadir/HTV2 (H-II Transfer Vehicle 2) vestibule by removing the thermal blanket and the CBM CPAs (Common Berthing Mechanism / Controller Panel Assemblies).  Cady & Paolo then also completed Part 3 of vestibule outfitting.    [Part 3: Installation of the Node-2 MPLM 1553B data jumper (W6001), opening the hatch MPEV (Manual Pressure Equalization Valve) and installing the IMV (Intermodular Ventilation) supply jumper & ARS (Atmosphere Revitalization System) jumper, closing out the radial port and removing the hatch launch restraint PIP pin.] The originally scheduled HTV2 hatch opening and crew ingress were cancelled and deferred to some later date due to last night’s severe earthquake off the coast of Japan and the closing of JAXA’s SSIPC (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center) in Tsukuba/Japan.      [SSIPC employees are safe but JAXA has evacuated all flight controllers and support personnel from SSIPC.  The earthquake happened at about 12:50am EST and resulted in hard damage at the SSIPC facilities.  TSG (Tsukuba Support Group) at MCC-Houston is monitoring Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) status over at least the weekend as BCC (Backup Control Center). Everything in Kibo has been powered down except for essential hardware and the MELFI).] Alex & Oleg completed their 4th preliminary orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test run (of 5) with the Russian Chibis suit in preparation for their return to gravity on 3/16 with Soyuz 24S (along with Scott Kelly).  They conducted the ODNT exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill.  Each crewmember took turns as Subject and assisting CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Skripochka was supported in his one-hour session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 6:37am, Kaleri at 8:11am EST.     [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of the crewmember’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  Data output includes blood pressure readings.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by one cycle of a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -30, -35, -40 and -45 mmHg for five min. each, while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, while wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure and the REG SHKO Rheoencephalogram Biomed Cap.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.] In the ATV2 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 2) Johannes Kepler, Paolo Nespoli set up the spacecraft’s GCP (Gas Control Panel) for a 10 mmHg O2 (oxygen) delivery and then conducted the first pressurization of the ISS cabin atmosphere from the ATV GDS (Gas Delivery System)’s gas line #1. Afterwards, Paolo serviced the FIR FCF (Fluids Integrated Rack / Fluids & Combustion Facility), changing out the Bio sample with new sample #6 from the Bio kit.     [Activities included opening the rack doors, rotating the LMM SBA (Light Microscopy Module / Spindle Bracket Assembly) from the Operate to Service position and removing the used sample from the Bio Base for return to the Bio kit.  With the new sample from the kit installed, the SBA was rotated back to Operate, the upper & lower FCF rack doors were closed, and POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center/Huntsville) was notified that the rack was ready for RPC (Remote Power Controller) activation.  The LMM-Bio experiment is designed for autonomous operation through scripts and ground-based commanding.  Crew time is required for the initial installation and check out in the FIR, sample change out, and removal from the FIR.] Dima Kondratyev continued the periodic Russian SPOPT (Fire Detection & Suppression System) IDZ-2 smoke detectors maintenance, started on 3/8 in the MRM1 Rassvet module, today dismantling the IDZ-2 units in the MRM2 Poisk module, cleaning their ionizing needles and then reinstalling the sensors.    [Part of the job is to inspect surrounding areas behind panels and to clean those surfaces and the inlet grille with microbial growth wipes.] FE-4 then worked in the SM (Service Module) on the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry system electronics behind panel 448.     [Dima unbolted and extracted its LKT4V2 local temperature sensor commutator (TA251M1B) with its installed PZU TA765B ROM/read-only memory unit and replaced it with a new TA251M1B plus TA765B PZU from spares.  Task completion was then reported to TsUP for ground-commanded reactivation of BITS2-12 and VD-SU control mode.] Later, Kondratyev performed software updates on the Russian SUBA (Onboard Equipment Control System) laptops RS2 & RS3 with new ATV2 displays.  The updated file was then copied to a removable medium as backup, and the laptops were powered down. CDR Kelly initiated another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer) and deactivated the system ~5 hrs later.  The new PS-120 junction power box, used for AQM since 3/8, does not have to be powered down.     [This was the 24th session with the replaced GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 7 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop (due to a software glitch, the software needs to be opened, closed, and then reopened in order to ensure good communication between GC/DMS and SSC-12).  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.] Scott also performed periodic service on the CubeLab payload, first powering it off (& stowing the EXPRESS rack power cable), then using a camcorder to take documentary video footage of the setup and finally removing Module-10 from Frame #1002/P-6.     [Module-10 has completed its data collection runs and will be returned to Earth on 24S, along with Module-9.  CubeLab is a low-cost 1-kg platform for educational projects.  It is a multipurpose research facility that interfaces small standard modules into the ERs (EXPRESS Racks).  The modules can be used within the pressurized space station environment in orbit, with a nominal length, width, and height of 100 mm and a mass of no more than 1 g.  Up to 16 CubeLab modules can be inserted into a CubeLab insert inside an ER.] The CDR also had an hour set aside for prepacking US return cargo for 24S, going by an uplinked listing of 12 items, some of them containers with multiple contents.     [In the actual loading onboard the spacecraft’s SA Scott was assisted by Alex Kaleri.] For the latest INTEGRATED IMMUNE crew health survey, Cady Coleman completed the survey forms on an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop and emailed the file to the experiment PI (Principal Investigator). FE-6 also offloaded the WPA WWT (Water Processor Assembly / Waste Water Tank) contents into a CWC (Contingency water Container), then tore the equipment down 1.5 hrs later.  After verifying that the TVIS treadmill’s motor box circuit breakers were Off, Skripochka and Kaleri supported ongoing TVIS troubleshooting by rotating the treadbelt by hand and listening for noises in the flywheel case, transfer case or any other points of interest on the TVIS assembly.  For the Russian experiment BTKh-11 Biodegradatsiya ("Biodegradation”), Oleg collected the periodic bio samples from specific metallic equipment and structures in the SM behind panels 139 & 407 for stowage in the 24S Descent Module for microbial analysis on Earth.   [The activities were documented by Oleg with the Nikon D2X digital camera with SB 28DX flash attachment for downlink via OCA, and Alex took imagery of Oleg working.] Kaleri completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.       [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Sasha also handled the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Scott & Alex had an hour each set aside for personal crew departure preparations; these are standard pre-return procedures for crewmembers. Coleman, Nespoli & Kondratyev teamed up for a one-hour handover review of emergency roles and responsibilities as Exp-26 comes to an end and the Exp-27 crew of Ron Garan, Alexander Samokutayev & Andre Borisenko takes over. At ~4:25am EST, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow. At ~7:30am, Alex Kaleri & Oleg Skripochka linked up with TsUP/Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory & stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers. At ~9:10am, Paolo Nespoli supported an ESA PAO TV event at the ALTEC (Advanced Logistics Technology Engineering Center) in Turin, Italy.     [The event was moderated by ESA’s Massimo Sabbatini and attended by Simonetta Di Pippo (ESA D/HSF), Corrado Ruggieri (President of ALTEC & Board of ASI); Luigi Pasquali (President & CEO of Thales Alenia Space) .] At ~12:20pm, Scott Kelly had his pre-descent PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- & Ku-band audio/video. At ~3:15pm, the six crewmembers conducted their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director or ISS at JSC/MCC-Houston. The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1/2x, FE-2/2x, FE-4, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with load trainer (FE-4).   [TVIS continues to be powered off; troubleshooting is underway.] CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Libreville, Gabon (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over the capital city of Gabon.  Libreville is a port city located on the Komo River near the Gulf of Guinea.  There were likely scattered popcorn cumuli in the region.  Overlapping mapping frames of the city, taken along track, were requested), Yaounde, Cameroon (as orbit track moved into central Africa, the crew had a nadir-viewing overpass of the capital city of Cameroon.  In contrast to the preceding target of Libreville, Yaounde is located in the center of the country at an elevation of approximately 2500 feet above sea level.  Scattered popcorn cumuli were likely present.  Overlapping mapping frames of the city, taken along track, were requested), and Port Vila, Vanuatu (looking to the left of track for the Vanuatu archipelago.  The capital city of Port Vila is located on the island of Efate, at the approximate midpoint of the archipelago.  Some scattered clouds may be present.  Overlapping frames of the islands – particularly the central islands including Efate - taken with the 400mm lens were requested.) 