
Payloads:
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): ROBoT-r Research sessions consisting of a set of 12 runs/tests were performed. The Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (Behavioral Core Measures) experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight and evaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the original activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crew members to complete either individual or crew telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember who has spent months in weightlessness can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
Collapsible Contingency Urinal (CCU): The crew participated in a debrief to discuss use of the CCU, followed by a clean-up and stow of the hardware. The CCU is exploration hardware flown to the ISS as a tech demo. The approach includes a fractal wetting design that incorporates smart capillary fluidics. This work could have a broad impact on capillary-based fluid management on spacecraft and on Earth.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The crew gained access to the furnace area, removed the processed sample, and inserted the next Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions (MICAST) Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) to be processed. The MICAST experiment aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys.
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (SCEM): The SCEM facility hardware was installed into the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) work volume. SCEM will be used to host the FLARE investigation. Fundamental Research on International Standard of Fire Safety in Space – Base for Safety of Future Manned Missions (FLARE), which is a JAXA investigation, explores the flammability of materials in microgravity. Various solid fuels are burned under different conditions and observed inside a flow tunnel. Microgravity significantly affects combustion phenomena and results are expected to contribute to the improvement of fire safety in space.
Touching Surfaces: The crew performed a periodic touching of the Touch Arrays which are deployed in five different locations in the US segment of ISS. Previous space research conducted during short-term flight experiments and long-term environmental monitoring on board orbiting space stations (such as MIR or the ISS) suggests that the relationship between humans and microbes is altered in the crewed habitat in space. This interdisciplinary project Touching Surfaces aims to investigate novel, laser-structured antimicrobial surfaces onboard the ISS. The realistic testing of the tailor-made nanostructured antimicrobial surface in space allows for the determination of the most suitable design for antimicrobial surfaces for terrestrial applications such as public transportation and clinical settings, as well as future human space mission and habitation design.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: Several activities were completed in preparation for the upcoming 3A ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep EVA. The EVA GoPro Batteries were charged and the card was verified to be installed, which prevents inconsistent charging issues. EVA procedures were reviewed, including several briefing packages, a detailed timeline, a tool config summary, get-aheads, and cautions and warnings. The crew terminated Autocycle Li-Ion Rechargeable EVA Batteries using the EMU Li-Ion Battery Charger and the 28V Power Supply Assembly (PSA) Utility Power Outlet (UPO). Two D5 cameras were also configured for EVA activities. The crew swapped EMUs 3015 and 3004 on the EMU Don/Doff Assemblies (EDDAs) and resized EMU 3015. Hardware not being utilized for the EVA was unstowed from the Airlock and the Airlock was prepped to support EVA operations. Lastly, the crew participated in an EVA Procedure Conference with EVA and Increment team leads and other program personnel.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: To support monitoring of the health of the ISS IMV system, a Velocicalc device was used to take measurements of air flow exiting outlets and entering inlets of the Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM). In addition to flow rate measurements, inspections of the outlets and inlets were performed.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

LSR Check-Out Actvities in MCM Mode following Operative System Update
Exposed Facility Unit 4 Preparation for Mate
EFU 4 Activation and Safing Verify
JEMRMS Maneuver for NREP Stow
JEM Airlock Capture Mechanism Release NREP
NREP berthing to EFU 4

