
Veg-03:  Today the crew watered the Veg-03 plants and continued with the photo-documentation of plant growth for the Veg-03 investigation. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets. 
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS): Today the crew captured images of the area from southern California to the Baja peninsula for the Earth Imagery investigation.  EIISS captures a series of videos showcasing targets around the world as seen from the ISS. These videos will be integrated into a product for later release. 
Meteor: The crew performed a routine changeout of the hard drive in the Meteor laptop located in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).  The Meteor payload uses a visible spectroscopy instrument to observe meteors in Earth orbit and then analyze the images to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of meteoroid dust. The study of the meteoroid dust on-orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.   
On-Board Training (OBT) 53 Soyuz (53S) Emergency Egress Drill:  All three crew members participated in a training session when they reviewed and practiced procedures that would be performed in the event of an emergency that required the crew to egress ISS and execute an emergency descent. This drill is scheduled after the crew has been onboard for 12 to 14 weeks and every 2.5 months thereafter. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Airlock Unstow: In preparation for US EVA #49 at the end of the month, the crew relocated hardware not needed for the upcoming EVA and prepared the Airlock to support EVA operations.
MetOx Regeneration Initiation:  Today the crew initiated a MetOx regeneration cycle on 2 MetOx canisters. This process is expected to take 14 hours and the crew is scheduled to terminate the regeneration cycle and remove the canisters from the MetOx Regenerator on Friday.  These two canisters will be used during an upcoming EVA.
Eye Exams: Today the crew completed routine eye exams using an Ultrasound machine. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Progress 69P ISS Reboost: Last night the ISS performed a nominal reboost using the 69P thrusters.  The purpose of the reboost was to start phasing for 53S landing in June and 70P 2-orbit constraints in July.  The reboost time of ignition (TIG) was 072/21:25:00 GMT (Tuesday, March 13, 04:25:00 pm CDT), with a burn duration of 1 m 48 s.
Remote Power Control Modules (RPCM) P14B-G and P13A-G Swap:  In July 2017 RPCM P14B-G Remote Power Controller (RPC) 11, which powers the thermostatically controlled Port Thermal Radiator (PTR) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer MDM survival heaters, tripped due to a hybrid Field Effect Transistor (FET) failure.  To regain functionality of the heaters, later today ground robotic specialist will use the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to swap RPCM P14B-G and P13A-G.  Since there is no load downstream of RPCM P13A-G RPC 11 there will be no impact of this hybrid FET failure following the swap.  
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Hematocrit Test
Hematocrit Hardware Stowage
Acoustic Monitor Data Transfer and Stow
ISS Emergency Descent OBT
Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluation
Recharging Samsung tablet in 53S
Study of cardiac bioelectric activity at rest.
Installation of ЗУ-С No.53001022 for Orlan Battery.
Mating telemetry connector to ЗУ-С.
Setup unit 825М3 (1266132133) to charge and start charge
СОЖ maintenance
Progress 437 (DC1) Stowage and IMS Ops
Meteor Hard Drive Swapout
VEG-03 E & F Plant Photo
VEG-03 Dual Facility Watering for each Plant Pillow
RED Camera Setup.
Ultrasound 2 Set-up
Earth Imagery from ISS RED Target Operations
IMS Update
RED Camera Deactivation.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan
Soyuz 737 Samsung PC recharge after OBT, remove from charge
Two-Phase Flow Experiment Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Video Compression And Recording Unit (MSPR VRU) Power Cycle
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Airlock Unstow
Portable air samples with CDM
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Initiation

Completed Task List Activities

EVA Systems Checklist pen & ink update

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


RPCM P13AG and P14BG Swap
Standard Commanding 

