03-12-2011March 12, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 03/12/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – crew rest day. The crew was given 30 min more sleeptime this morning, along with kudos: “It’s been a busy few weeks, thanks for all of your hard work. Enjoy your weekend, you’ve earned it!” CDR Scott Kelly continued his current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 9th session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.] Supported by ground specialists at TsUP-Moscow via S-band, FE-1 Kaleri worked on the Russian Elektron O2 (oxygen) generator, pressurizing its buffer volume and configuring valves for start-up.  Afterwards, Elektron was activated, and Alex monitored the activation operation by checking the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.      [Temperature is checked twice, about 3-4 minutes apart, with the MultiMeter with temperature probe.  The standard manual check is required because the gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.] FE-2 Skripochka later conducted the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Elektron which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V). All crewmembers joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.] As part of uborka house cleaning, Sasha, Oleg & Dima completed regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM (Service Module) and the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode. Winding up the current TVIS treadmill troubleshooting, Kaleri performed an unmanned TVIS Speed Characterization Test.  Afterwards the resulting TVIS PCMCIA memory card data were downlinked so engineers could begin their review.       [After the data review, the ground was to provide a GO/NO GO call for Skripochka to proceed with the manned ACO (Activation & Checkout) portion, monitored with camcorder and Shure microphone to record audio and video for downlink.  After assessment of the video, a GO/NO GO call will be given to resume nominal exercise.] FE-6 Coleman closed the external protective shutters of the Lab, Node-3/Cupola and Kibo JPM  windows in preparation for tomorrow morning’ Soyuz 24S thruster testing (3:44am EDT). FE-2 Skripochka made preparations for a microbial air sampling session scheduled tomorrow and subsequent with the MedOps SZM-MO-21 ECOSFERA equipment, initiating charging on the Ecosphere power pack (BP) and readying the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic container (at -22 degC) for the samples.    [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger, power supply unit, and incubation tray for Petri dishes, determines microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.] Later, FE-2 completed another data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was Oleg’s 11th run.      [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.] Before sleep time, Oleg will prepare the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his 14th experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] Dmitri completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.       [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] At ~5:15am, Paolo Nespoli powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 5:20am conducted a ham radio session with students at Sculo Media Statale "Francesco d' Assisi" and Didattico Don Lorenzo Milani, Modugno, BA, Italy. At ~8:25am, Cady Coleman turned on the amateur radio gear and at 8:30am conducted a ham pass with students at Shri Krishna Vithyaalayam Matric School, Pollachi (TK), India. At ~9:00am EST, the six crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events. At ~9:50am, Oleg, Alex & Dmitri supported a Russian PAO TV event, downlinking greetings to the participants of the “50 Years of The First Space Flight Workshop and Exhibition” at the city of Korolev next week, from 3/15-17.       [Korolev will host an international workshop of educational institutions of secondary & higher vocational level, training specialists for rocket and space industry and of enterprises-members of the International Association of Space Communities.  The workshop is sponsored by the RF Ministry of Education & Science, the International Association of Space Communities, the Federal Space Agency, Korolev College of Space Engineering & Technologies, the Russian Federation of Cosmonautics, and the Korolev municipal authorities.   “…Space research, one of the most important activities of humankind, is secured by high-tech space systems.  At the present time, to develop personnel training system and promote occupational prestige are areas of specific concern that contribute to the success of rocket and space industry as well as meticulous work on education and upbringing of gifted children and young people…   Be healthy and successful in your work, and proudly meet new challenges! --- May we also cast a separate greetings to the young participants of the 3rd World Contest of Children Drawings depicting “Space exploration”.  About ten-thousand young artists from more than thirty countries have taken part in the Contest this year.  In your drawings you not only successfully demonstrated the skills you learned from the teachers, but also showed love and care about our common home – the Earth.  We wish you further creative successes!  Move on and master new knowledge, advance your talent!  Tomorrow depends on you.  And that is not only the tomorrow of our countries but of the whole planet.”  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1/2x, FE-2/2x, FE-4, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with load trainer (FE-4).   [TVIS continues to be powered off; troubleshooting is underway.] Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Six -- Week 16   -- last). 2D NANO Template (JAXA):    No report. 3D SPACE:    No report. AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report. ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete. ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     No report. APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report. APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report. Asian Seed 2010 (JAXA):    The photo session remains and is on the Task list. BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):      No report. BIOLAB (ESA):    No report. BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):     No report. BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report. BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report. CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for   Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report. CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete. CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   CB cleanup in the Saibo Rack was performed on 12/22. CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:      No report. CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report. CERISE (JAXA):    No report. CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):      No report. CFS-A (Colored Fungi in Space-A, ESA):   “Scott, a special thanks for the set of photographs that you took on FD5 and FD9 !  The science team expressed their high satisfaction when analyzing them.  As you remember, the FUNGI-A living cultures have been returned with ULF5.  Thanks to the smooth landing at KSC, the samples were handed over very quickly to the science team, which is really optimum.  Their analysis has started.” CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing. CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete. CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:     No report. Commercial (Inc 23&24, JAXA):     This plantlet Leaveanest seeds bag was launched by ULF4, and returned on ULF5 with Commercial (Inc 25&26).  Handed over to JAXA. Commercial (Inc 25 & 26, JAXA):    This plantlet Leaveanest seeds bag was launched by ULF4, and returned on ULF5 with Commercial (Inc 23&24).  Handed over to JAXA. CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report. CsPins (JAXA):      CsPins planned runs (#2-3,2-4,2-5) were moved to Inc 27 / 28 (before ULF7 Docked). CubeLab:      CubeLab Module-9 and -10 were packed on Friday, 3/11, for return to Earth on 24S.  Their science results will then be analyzed. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete. DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS, ESA):    Acquiring science data with DOSTEL-2 detector. EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report. EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report. ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.  EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    No report. ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report. EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD. EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Hobbies):      No report. EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Kids in Space):   No report. EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report. EPO GREENHOUSE (ESA):   No report. EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report. EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report. EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15. EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete. EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report. EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    Uplinked to the crew two of the team's favorite pictures of the recent Message in a Bottle activities.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report. EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report. EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete. EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report. EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report. EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   This task is scheduled on 3/9 (fam) and 3/10 (execution). ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]     “Paolo, many thanks for your interest in performing more ERB-2 filming in the near future.  This is much appreciated.  We also have some news about the previous activities you performed with the ERB-2 camera: From the already downlinked footages (15 videos out of 18), ground processing confirms that these are great footages (especially of the crew entering & exiting Columbus, Cady crossing the US-Lab with ERB2 following and Paolo together with Scott flying towards the ERB-2 camera).  From these first footages, our experts will fine tune the recommended settings for future use.” ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed. FACET-2 (JAXA):   No report.  FERULATE (JAXA):    No report. FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     No report. Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132. FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report. FOCUS:    No report. FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):     Downlink of MMA data (captured during ATV-2 and ULF5 dockings) was nominally performed on 3/10. FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report. GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     Samples returned with ULF5. GEOFLOW:    “Paolo, we very much appreciate your interest in helping us start this experiment in the near future.” HAIR (JAXA):    No report. HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1. Hicari (JAXA):    No report. Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report. HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P. HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):     HICO has taken 2677 images to date.  The most recent HICO images taken include images of the Persian Gulf and the Bohai Sea in China.  RAIDS is collecting secondary science including nighttime atmospheric disk photometry, spectra and temperatures.  Extreme Ultra Violet airglow spectroscopy and optical contamination studies are also being performed.  HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):    The sample is scheduled to return on ULF5 Flight. ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete. ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):      No report. IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete. INTEGRATED IMMUNE:    “Cady, the Integrated Immune team received your samples following STS-133 landing and indicated that they looked good.  Data processing will continue throughout the next few weeks.  Thank you for all your efforts in collecting these samples during the busy docked ops period.” InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report. IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report. ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     No report. IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.  KID/KUBIK6:    No report. Kids in Micro-G:    No report. KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report. LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report. Marangoni Exp (JAXA):    24th run was completed on 12/22. Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf. Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    8th run will be performed on 3/10-11.  The MI Core with the damaged disk edge and the sample cassette that leaked are planned for return on ULF7. Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    “Paolo, Alexander and Oleg: Many thanks for your outstanding handling of the MATRYOSHKA phantom! It was great to watch the transfer from Kibo to the Russian Segment.  A large science community is now awaiting the return of the passive dosimeters with 24S.” MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    No report. MDCA/Flex:    While we examine all possible failure scenarios for MDCA Needle 1, we plan to perform heptane test points using MDCA Needle 2 early next week. MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.  Microbe-2 (JAXA):    Completed on FD10 and returned on ULF5.  The returned samples were handed over to the Microbe-II team, but some return items (3 white tubes, 1 Agar tubes, and 3 sampling sheets) were not included.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete. MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report. MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally except for PEC B.  PEC B is powered off for remainder of MISSE-7 mission in order to preserve stored science data within PEC B.  MISSE-7 PEC A and PEC B will be retrieved on STS-134. MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4. MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report. MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    Last Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) returned with STS-133 (ULF5). MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”. MULTIGEN-1:   Completed. MYCO 3 (JAXA):    Myco prep and sampling activities were completed on FD9 and FD10. MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20. NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A. NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report. NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete. NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:     “Scott, with the successful blood draw on Friday morning, your in-flight Nutrition activities are complete. Thank you for the call down with the barcodes as well as your participation.”  PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report. PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report. PASSAGES (JAXA):    “Scott, thanks a lot for finishing your second session last Tuesday. The science team received the full data set already.“ PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report. PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report. PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG. PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete. POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete. Pro K:     “Paolo, your 3rd ProK session was completed this week.  Your next session will be in Increment 27.” RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete. RadSilk (JAXA):    No report. RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Scott, the actual number of tests you will complete is 95.  The number we have been carrying, 115, was a planning number.  Thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test throughout your mission!   Scott, Paolo and Cady, due to limited crew time, Reaction Self Test activities were taken off the timeline this week.  They will resume next week.  Thank you for continuing to participate in Reaction Self Test!" RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report. SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report. SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report. SAMPLE:    Complete. SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report. SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20. SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete. SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report. SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Scott:  Thank you for completing another week of Sleep Logs.  Your last Sleep activity will be to download and stow your Actiwatch before you depart.  To save crewtime, we have combined activities to also download/initialize Cady's Actiwatch at the same time.  Thank you for your participation!” SMILES (JAXA):   Recooling mode #13 continues. SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report. SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    COLLOID flash-disks returned with STS-133 (ULF5). SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    SOLAR Sun Visibility Window #38 started on 2/24.  The SOLAR measurements were impacted by the ATV-2 docking on 2/24, the ATV-2 reboost/thruster test on 2/25, and the ULF5 docking on 2/26.  However, smart planning of science runs made it possible to avoid losing any measurement opportunities.  On 3/7, the SOLAR platform encountered an AIB failure (known anomaly) and a Sun tracking sensor glitch. The Sun Visibility Window #38 ended on 3/7. SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    Blood and urine samples (from Doug Wheelock and Shannon Walker) returned with ULF5. Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report. SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):     No report. SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA):    No report. SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.    SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    "Scott, Paolo and Cady, Thank you for your participation in Spinal on such short notice. The pictures look great! We look forward to reviewing both the pictures and the logs." SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report. TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report. THERMOLAB (ESA):    No report. TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned. TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report. ULTRASOUND:    Planned. VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report. VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring science data with NorAIS receiver.  On 3/9, a new set of command parameters was uplinked. VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    No report. VO2max (NASA):    No report. VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report. WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report. YEAST B (ESA):    No report. CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    No report. CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Lome, Togo (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over the capital city of Togo.  Some scattered clouds may have been present, but viewing conditions for this city should have been near optimal.  Lome is located along the coast of the Gulf of Guinea; an oil refinery has driven expansion of the urban area towards the east.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), Earthquake Damage, Japan (Dynamic event.  A magnitude 8.9 earthquake occurred yesterday (3/11) near the east coast of the island of Honshu.  The earthquake spawned a tsunami that caused additional damage and flooding.  Night time imagery of central and northern Honshu may indicate regions of infrastructure damage and power outages.  Looking to the left of track as ISS  approached the islands of Japan and taking images for approximately 3 minutes), and Belgrade, Serbia (the viewing conditions were predicted to remain clear during this pass over the capital city of Serbia.  Belgrade was also the capital city of the former Yugoslavia.  The city is located at the confluence of the Sava and Danube Rivers.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban and surrounding rural area were requested).  