
Ocular Health (OH) Cardiac Operations: With operator assistance and remote guidance from the OH ground team, Kopra and Peake administered blood pressure measurements and ultrasound scanning activities which support the Health Maintenance System (HMS) eye ultrasound exam.  Crew members’ bodies change in a variety of ways during space flight, and some experience impaired vision. Tests monitor microgravity-induced visual impairment as well as changes believed to arise from elevated intracranial pressure to characterize how living in microgravity can affect the visual, vascular and central nervous systems. The investigation also measures how long it takes for crew members to return to normal after they return to Earth.
 
Microbiome:  Kopra completed a Flight Day (FD) 90 body sample collection and stowed the samples into a box module in a Minus Eight-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI). Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s Microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
 
Multi-Purpose End-To-End Robotics Operations Network (METERON) and SUPerVISory control of the Eurobot (SUPVIS-E) Control Test: Peake relocated and set up the METERON laptops and Video Camera Assembly (VCA)1 prior to executing the METERON test. He used the Rover Control software on the ISS and the Eurobot Ground Prototype (EGP) on the ground to execute the investigation. During execution of METERON-SUPVISE-TST1 the rover did not respond to ground commands due to a connectivity issue. A software reset and EGP reboots did not resolve the problem. Operations were deferred while ground teams review the data. METERON tele-operates robots on Earth from the ISS to validate technology for future exploration missions where astronauts can operate surface robots from their spacecraft with ground support. SUPVIS-E is the third step of the METERON project, continuing to use the Delay Tolerant Network (DTN) technology that automates store-and-forward techniques to compensate for the intermittent connectivity typical of space missions.
 
Cygnus Robotics On-Board Trainer (RoBOT) On-Board Training (OBT) and Self Study: Kopra completed another session of this training in preparation for OA-6 arrival currently scheduled for March 26. The procedure included a 30 meter approach, two Capture Point hold runs and 2 meter runs.
 
Hatch Seal Inspection: Peake completed the second of two sessions of this scheduled maintenance to clean the USOS hatch seals in Node 2, Node 3, PMM, COL and JEM. He inspected the sealing surface and hatch handle mechanisms for Foreign Object Debris (FOD) or damage. He took photos during the inspection which he downlinked to the ground for review.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HRF Saliva Sample Collection
Biochemical Urine Test r/g 1673
HRF – Sample Insertion into MELFI
URISYS Hardware Stowage
USND2 – Hardware Activation
Ultrasound – Scanning Prep
Daily Planning Conference (S-band)
Ultrasound2 – Scan performed by a Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
Ocular Health Experiment – Ultrasound 2 – Scan
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position / SM Pressure Control & Atmosphere Monitoring System
Ultrasound Data Export
Ops with ИДЭ-3 Smoke Detectors No.1 and No.3 in DC1 / r/g 1681
Ocular Health Experiment – Ultrasound 2 – Scan
Ultrasound2 – Scan performed by a Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Ultrasound2 Scan – Post-exam ops
METERON – Overview
Ultrasound Data Export
METERON – Laptop setup
METERON -Equipment testing
OBT – Dragon Rendezvous and Berthing Procedures Review
Log File Dump / r/g 1671
OH – Ocular Health Cardiac Operations
Ocular Health (OH) – Operator Assistance with the Experiment
OH – Ocular Health Cardiac Operations
Ocular Health (OH) – Operator Assistance with the Experiment
On MCC GO ISS N2 Repress from Progress 429 (Aft) СрПК Section 2 (start)
iPad Restow
On MCC GO ISS N2 Repress from Progress 429 (Аft) СрПК Section 2 (terminate)
Replacement of КОБ2 loop 4СПН2 panel H1 replaceable pump assembly r/g 1683
USND2 – Equipment Deactivation and Stowage
ECLSS – Tank Drain
Water Recovery and Management (WRM): Condensate Pumping Initiation
Hatch Seal Inspection
RGN – Initiate drain into EDV
CSL5 – Laptop relocation from SM and loading
Water Recovery and Management (WRM): Condensate Pumping Termination
ARED Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
СОЖ Maintenance
SPLANH. Preparation for Experiment / r/g 1672

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Cygnus RoBOT OBT support
Nominal ground commanding

 
