
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): A visual inspection was performed of the CAL moderate temperature coolant jumper, and any coolant observed was cleaned up. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
EasyMotion: EasyMotion data was exported to a Tablet for downlink. The EasyMotion investigation uses whole body Electro-Myo-Stimulation (EMS) with a wearable body skin suit for an ISS crew member to perform pre- and post-flight EMS-assisted exercises. EMS technology initiates spontaneous (involuntary) activation of global musculature (muscle, tendon, fascia) to be monitored (muscle tone/tension and stiffness) in-flight using the non-invasive Myoton technology that is currently aboard the space station for the Myotones investigation.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): A crewmember removed the slide rail from the CBEF Micro-G Sample Tray. The CBEF, a JAXA subrack facility, is an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
GRIP: Crewmembers performed GRIP science sessions in the seated position. The GRIP experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements such as oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements, and tapping gestures.
Touching Surfaces: A crewmember performed the last Touching Surfaces event and then deinstalled all five Touch Arrays from COL, LAB, Node 2 and Node 3. Previous space research conducted during short-term flight experiments and long-term environmental monitoring on board orbiting space stations (such as MIR or the ISS) suggests that the relationship between humans and microbes is altered in the crewed habitat in space. This interdisciplinary project Touching Surfaces aims to investigate novel, laser-structured antimicrobial surfaces onboard the ISS. The realistic testing of the tailor-made nanostructured antimicrobial surface in space allows for the determination of the most suitable design for antimicrobial surfaces for terrestrial applications such as public transportation and clinical settings, as well as future human space mission and habitation design.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): The spool and preform sample was exchanged and the ground initiated a run. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Systems:
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: Post-Radiator Beam Valve Module (RBVM) Jumper Install EVA activities continued today with the Airlock deconfiguration to prepare Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) and equipment for long-term stowage, as well as a reconfiguration of the EVA D5 Camera for Intravehicular Activity (IVA) use. The lithium-ion batteries were installed into the Battery Stowage Compartment for post-EVA 80 Autocycle. Crew obtained a feedwater sample from the EMU Display and Control Module (DCM) water poppet prior to recharging the EMU feedwater tanks to satisfy maintenance requirements for on-orbit stowage using iodinated water. High Definition EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) power was terminated after files were downlinked, and EVA tools were stowed.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Activities: The crew swapped the Backup ЕДВ with the Offload ЕДВ and stowed the Backup ЕДВ. The ЕДВ is a water container intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities, and are also used to store water and urine for disposal. The Pretreated Urine Hose was also inspected for kinks or pinches between the UTS and Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) as part of WHC troubleshooting operations. The WHC is currently Go for use.
External Wireless Instrumentation System (EWIS) Network Control Unit (NCU) Troubleshooting: As part of the setup for troubleshooting activities for EWIS NCU functionality, the crew configured a Space Station Computer (SSC) client to directly connect to a suspect EWIS NCU via serial interface. MCC-H remotely logged in to perform the troubleshooting steps. After troubleshooting, the serial cable was disconnected and the laptop returned to its original location.
Crew Handover Activities: In preparation for crew handover between the 67S crew and 65S crew, the Starboard Crew Quarters (CQ) was cleaned, including intake and exhaust ducts, fans, and airflow sensors. The 65S crew also reviewed the Emergency Hardware Familiarization On-Board Training (OBT) with the 67S crew. Other 65S crew departure preparations included cleaning up data on the SSCs and tablets.
Completed Task List Activities:

PAM Familiarization Big Picture Words Review
Light Installation at JPM1OF3

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

UHF 2 Activation/Deactivation
BCDU Firmware Load
Comm Configuration During an EMER OBT

