
Ocular Health (OH): With Cristoforetti assisting as the CMO, Virts completed his Ocular Health ultrasound. Ultrasound scans were performed of his eyes, followed by cardiac echo measurements as part of the Ocular Health data collection.  The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Reconfiguration:  Virts and Cristoforetti removed the Nanorack Cubesat Deployers and the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) and Small Fine Arm (SFA) Attachment Mechanism (SAM) from the JEMAL slide table.  The Nanorack Cubesat deployers will be packed for return on SpaceX-6 (SpX-6). Tomorrow the crew will install the Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM)-2 hardware on the JEMAL slide table.
Gene, Immune and Cellular Responses to Single and Combined Space Flight Conditions-B (TripleLux-B): Cristoforetti performed Day 2 of the second run of TripleLux-B.  She thawed the Culture Tubes B in the Biolab glovebox, assembled the Experiment Container (EC) and installed the EC into the Biolab Rotor for cell transfer.  The EC was then inserted into the Thermal Control Unit (TCU)-2 at 4° Celcius for cell reconstitution. TripleLux compares the mechanisms of vertebrate and invertebrate cells at a cellular level which causes impairment of immune functions in microgravity through induction of gene activation, phagocytosis (ingestion of foreign material), and DNA repair in vertebrate and invertebrate immune cells. TripleLux-B examines the immune function of the blue mussel (Mytilus edulis), hemocytes (cellular component of invertebrate blood), compared to rodent macrophages (white blood cells responsible for eating foreign material) to function in microgravity.
Node 3 (N3) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Status:  Overnight ground specialist were able to restart N3 CDRA following yesterday’s ASV 106 replacement and subsequent CDRA bed 1 leak check failure.  N3 CDRA is currently operating nominally.  Additional leak checks are planned, per procedures, later this week.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN-ECLSS) Status:  Overnight the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) experienced a High Conductivity Fault. The fault was traced to a biased sensor which has been inhibited and the WPA is currently processing.  Then, this morning during the Waste Water Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) fill there was an unexpected sensor increase.  During a WSTA fill this morning, the nominal deactivation steps were performed when the WSTA reached 69%. Rather than deactivating, the quantity within the WSTA continued to increase. Ground teams are currently investigating the WSTA event. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Ultrasound – Hardware Setup and Activation
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops
VIRTUAL. Experiment Ops
Ultrasound – Scanning Prep
Ocular Health (OH) – Ultrasound Scan
Ultrasound – Data Export
Ocular Health Cardiac Operations
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
TPLXB – Hardware Setup for the Experiment
TPLXB – Preparation of Glovebox
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer Removal from the MPEP
Voice check in S/G1 from Baikonur
Ultrasound – Hardware Deactivation and Closeout
TPLXB – Removal of Culture Tube from GLACIER and Transfer to Glovebox
OTKLIK. Hardware Check
TPLXB – Thawing of Culture Tube and Assembly of EC
Audit of O-rings and seals КВО.7346.0000.
JEM Airlock Capture Mechanism Release
MPEP – Hardware Setup
MPEP – Removal of MPEP from Small Fine Arm (SAM)
TPLXB – Hardware Setup
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Replacement of ПТАБ-1М (А301) АБ Module No.1
Force Loader Test (HC-1M)
JEM Airlock – Slide Table Retraction
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
TPLXB – Closeout Ops
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Nutritional Assessment (ESA) 

Completed Task List Items

Safety-Video-Followup

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


MPEP release from SAM
JEM A/L deactivation
SAM removal
JEM A/L slide table retraction
JEM A/L activation

