
Crew Off Duty: Today was a half duty day and Monday will be a full off duty day for the USOS crew. This is to pay the crew back for performing Cygnus operations this weekend.
 
Orbital 6 (OA-6): Kopra and Peake participated in a Cygnus rendezvous conference with ground teams to prepare for OA-6 capture tomorrow at 5:40AM CDT and berthing approximately 3 hours later.  Vehicle ingress and cargo transfer operations will occur on Sunday.
 
Education Payloads Operations (EPO) – AstroPi File Transfer and De-installation: Peake copied files from the AstroPi Micro standard definition card to an SSC for downlink prior to deinstalling AstroPi in Node 2. AstroPi is composed of RaspberryPi B+, Sense HAT (Hardware Attached on Top) and a camera module. Raspberry Pi is a credit-card sized computer that enables students to explore computing and learn how to program. Two AstroPi are on board: AstroPi Vis, with visible light camera, and AstroPi IR, with an infrared camera. Both AstroPi programs were written by the winners of a student competition and collect data from sensors (i.e., inertial movement, barometric pressure, relative humidity and temperature) which will be shared with schools.
 
Space Headaches: Peake completed his weekly Space Headaches questionnaire. Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: Peake completed a session of the Habitability experiment by uploading the iSHORT app. He recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Emergency Hardware Familiarization: Kopra and the 46S crew reviewed locations of equipment and positions of valves used in emergencies in both Russian and US segments. The crew conferred with ground teams at Mission Control Center (MCC) – Houston, MCC-Moscow, Columbus Control Center and JAXA Control Center during the review. They also practiced donning and purging emergency masks and demonstrated ability to communicate with the ground while wearing the masks.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) weekly conference r/g 1725
IMS Tagup (S-band)
Removing two TV cameras СА1,2 and light units СГ2-14В from Soyuz 720 [CA]  (TV Cameras (2) to stowage in Soyuz 719 [БО] for return, light units – to Soyuz 720 [БО] for disposal)
On MCC Go: ТА251М (ЛКТ4В2) Remove & Replace in SM r/g 1753
PILOT-T. Preparation for the experiment r/g 1760
EPO-ASTROPI – File Transfer
EPO-ASTROPI – Hardware Removal
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops. r/g 1760
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops.  r/g 1761
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
HABIT – Walkthrough Video
Gathering  Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) and Vestibule Outfitting Kit Equipment
Cygnus Cargo Operations Review
Review of Cygnus Capture Day Key Reminders
PILOT-T. Closeout Ops r/g 1761
VIZIR. Infrared Coordinate Reference System [СКП-И] service application file downlink r/g 1759
Cygnus – Docking Conference.
ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization OBT
СОЖ Maintenance
Ghost Camera Setup
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout
Progress 429 (Aft) stowage for disposal and IMS Ops / r/g 1484, 1682
SHD – Weekly Questionnaire
Emergency Mask OBT
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 3 r/g 1758
Closure of SM window shutters 6,8,9,12,13,14 / r/g 6965
IMS Delta File Prep
Cygnus – Cargo Operations Tagup
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Cygnus PROX GPSR data monitoring
Cygnus rendezvous conference
Nominal ground commanding

 
