
Payloads:
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): Four Plant Experiment Units were removed from the 1-G CBEF Incubator Unit Centrifuge. The CBEF, a JAXA subrack facility, is an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
Confocal Space Microscopy: Two USB cables were connected to the Payload Laptop Terminal 5 (PLT5) as part of the Confocal Space Microscopy Setup. The Confocal Space Microscope (Confocal Microscope) is a JAXA facility that provides fluorescence images of biological samples aboard the ISS. Confocal microscopy uses spatial filtering techniques to eliminate out-of-focus light or glare in specimens with thicknesses exceeding the immediate plane of focus. With the Confocal Microscope, data can be obtained on the fundamental nature of cellular and tissue structure and functions in real-time.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-21 (J-SSOD-21): Photos were taken of the J-SSOD-21 deployed satellite KITSUNE from Launcher 2 (Wide) and IHI-SAT from Launcher 1 (Single). The J-SSOD provides a novel and safe small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD, including satellite install cases with small satellites, is installed onto the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) by crew members, it is passed through the JEM Airlock for retrieval, positioning, and deployment by the JEMRMS.
Light Ions Detector for ALTEA (LIDAL): A crewmember moved the Light Ions Detector in support of the crew gaining access to the COL1D1 Rack Front in order to support upcoming ESA/GRIP activities. The capability of Anomalous Long Term Effects in Astronauts (ALTEA) to measure the linear energy transfer (LET) of protons and helium and the kinetic energy of protons and heavy ions is to be upgraded by the addition of a new time of flight (TOF) system detector called the Light Ions Detector for ALTEA (LIDAL). LIDAL upgrades the ability of ALTEA to make measurements that can be converted, by dedicated software in real-time, into radiation risk coefficients – effectively enabling ALTEA to become the first ever dosimetric (risk meter) aboard the ISS.
Plant Habitat-05: Photos were taken of the Plant Habitat-05 plates. Unlocking the Cotton Genome to Precision Genetics (Plant Habitat-05) cultivates several cotton genotypes that differ in their ability to regenerate into whole plants from undifferentiated masses of cells known as a calli. Cotton is highly resistant to the process of plant regeneration, making it difficult to engineer stable, reproducing plants that have specific or enhanced traits such as drought resistance. The investigation could provide a better understanding of this behavior and a pathway to avert this problem.
Saibo: The CO2 Quick Disconnect (QD) was removed from the Saibo Rack. The Saibo Experiment Rack (Saibo) which means “living cell,” includes a Clean Bench glovebox with a microscope that is capable of isolating the organisms being studied, and a Cell Biology Experiment Facility that includes an incubator and centrifuges.
Systems:
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: Post-EVA activities were completed after yesterday’s successful Radiator Beam Valve Module (RBVM) Jumper Install EVA. The crew performed a relocation of Station Support Computer (SSC) 12, an EVA debrief, Robotic Workstation (RWS) teardown to uninstall the Cupola Crew Restraint and power down the Display and Control Panels, and downlink of video files from the EVA GoPro and camera stowage.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill and Inspection: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump, and analyzed the Urine Collection Device (UCD). The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. The WHC Pump Separator and associated hoses were also inspected due to a recent increase in Check Separator indications and slow startup. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ and completing the inspection, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
Crew Arrival Preparations: In preparation for the arrival of the Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) crew, crew preference supplies were staged, and onboard crew reviewed the PAM Familiarization Big Picture Words and held a corresponding conference to prepare for PAM operations.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEMRMS Ground Control Main Arm Maneuver to Small Satellite Deploy Position
MCC-H Transition to Standard Mode
RWS Reconfiguration
MT Pre-Translation Check Out and Survey
MT Translation
MSS Maneuver
MCC-H Transition to External Ops Mode

