
Orbital 6 (OA-6) Launch:  Cygnus is scheduled to launch from Kennedy Space Center tonight at 10:05PM CDT. Capture is scheduled for Saturday, March 26 at 5:40AM CDT with ingress on Sunday, March 27 and the beginning of cargo transfer operations.
 
NeuroMapping: Kopra completed a NeuroMapping Neurocognitive test on a Human Research Facility (HRF) laptop.  The experiment studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking; as well as measuring how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from those possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from crewmembers returning from a long-duration spaceflight suggests that movement control and cognition are affected in microgravity.
 
Marrow: Williams completed his Launch plus 4 day (L+4) blood, breath and air samples after waking today for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Marrow investigation.  This investigation studies the effect of microgravity on human bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
 
Dose Tracker: Peake completed entries for medication tracking which documents the medication usage of crew members before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, and Experimental Satellites (SPHERES): Peake charged and swapped several sets of batteries to support the SPHERES investigation activities scheduled this week. SPHERES are bowling-ball sized spherical satellites. They will be used to test a set of well-defined instructions for spacecraft performing autonomous rendezvous and docking maneuvers. Three free-flying spheres will fly within the cabin of the ISS, performing flight formations. Each satellite is self-contained with power, propulsion, computers and navigation equipment. The results are important for satellite servicing, vehicle assembly and formation flying spacecraft configurations.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: Kopra and Peake viewed assorted videos to review the different sessions of the Habitability experiment. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
USOS Crew Handover: Kopra conducted this handover with Williams to discuss recommendations for on-orbit practices and lessons learned related to ISS systems and payloads. They also covered generic safety reminders, use of exercise equipment and specific information about each module.
 
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review: All six crew members participated in this review. Topics covered included crew accountability during an emergency situation such as a Soyuz retreat, Commander Responsibilities and procedure strategy for crew members.
 
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Bacteria Filters: Kopra Removed & Replaced (R&R) bacteria filters and cleaned area smoke detectors in Node 3. He also R&Rd the filters in the AirLock and cleaned the Inter Module Ventilation (IMV) return screens.  Systems that had to be safed for that operation are being brought back online.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted. 

MARROW – Air Sampling
Morning Inspection. SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test / Manual Controls [РСУ]
Inspection of СМ-У, РУ2, РУ4, РУ5 connector on МНР-НС separator pump in [АСУ] behind panel 139 and line 5182-03 from Pretreat and Water Dispenser (ДКиВ) to [МНР] in its transparent section
CSA – Blood collection – Operator
CSA – Blood Collection
CSA – Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
SPHERES – Battery Charging
CSA – Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
CSA – Sample Insertion into MELFI
CSA – Blood Sample Collection Closeout Ops
Water Recovery and Management (WRM): Condensate Pumping Initiation
Gas Analyzer Deactivation in Soyuz 719 / Soyuz 719
Gas Analyzer Deactivation in Soyuz 720 / Soyuz 720
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) – MLC Troubleshooting
СОЖ Maintenance
MSG power off
Soyuz 720 Samsung Tablet Recharge – initiate
Water Recovery Management (WRM): Iodine Fill – start
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops. Tagup with specialists / r/g 1703
HABIT – Preparing for the experiment
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Water Recovery and Management (WRM):  Condensate Pumping Termination
COSMOCARD. Photography of the Experiment Ops / r/g 1717
COSMOCARD. Setup. Starting 24-hr ECG Recording r/g 1716
Progress 429 (Aft) Stowage and IMS Ops / r/g 1682
Soyuz 720 Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 1691
Water Recovery Management (WRM): Iodine Fill – End
OA-6 (Cygnus) – Cargo Environment Sensor (CES) Data Download
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (start) r/g 1721
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
MELFI – Transfer of MICROBE IV bags from MELFI 3 to MELFI 1
URAGAN. SW Update for Photo Spectrum System (ФСС) P/L r/g 1724
PMM Cleanup, Part 3
HABIT – Data Recording to iPad
Soyuz 720 Samsung tablet charge – end
DOSETRK – Data Export
Habitability – Questionnaire
Preventive maintenance of MRM2 АСП-О Hatch Sealing Mechanism and Soyuz 720 hatch
Transfer of brine/urine from EDV-U into Progress 431 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank2 – Handover / r/g 1723
Transfer of brine/urine from EDV-U into Progress 431 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank2 / r/g 1723
Test procedure and plan
SPHERES – Tagup with specialists regarding the Experiment
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
Crew Prep for PAO
PAO Hardware Setup
PAO Event
Safety Handover Procedure Review
Bringing ODF up to date using ТК 720 delivered files / r/g 1720
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Soyuz 719 Samsung Tablet Recharge – Initiate
Gather Items Required for Airlock and Node 3 Bacteria Filter R&R
CONTENT. Experiment Ops  r/g 1718
IMS Delta File Prep
NMAP – Experiment Test
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
T2 Treadmill Introduction
NOD3 Bacterial/Charcoal Filter R&R
PCS 1553 card R&R
Airlock Bacterial/Charcoal Filter Remove & Replace
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (end) and start backup r/g 1721
Inspection of Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) and Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE)
Countermeasures System (CMS) – Tightening ARED Bolts
Soyuz 719 Samsung tablet charging – Terminate
Camcorder Setup to View LAB RWS Monitor 3
SPHERES – Battery Replacement

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted. 

Bacteria filter R&R support
Nominal ground commanding

 
