
Payloads:
Cardinal Heart 2.0: A preservative was injected into each Cardinal Heart 2.0 tissue chamber and microscopy imagery was conducted for specific chambers. A previous investigation showed that four weeks of microgravity exposure caused significant changes in heart cell function and gene expression that could lead to long-term damage or cardiac muscle atrophy. Effect of Microgravity on Drug Responses Using Heart Organoids (Cardinal Heart 2.0) uses heart organoids to test whether clinically approved drugs reduce these microgravity-induced changes in heart cell function. Results could support development of effective drug combinations to improve the health of astronauts and patients on Earth.
Dreams: The electroencephalogram (EEG) headband was doffed, data was synchronized with the iPad, and the questionnaire was completed. The hardware was setup and donned again prior to sleep. Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep, or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance. The Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (Dreams) is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the ISS.
ISS Ham Radio: ISS Ham pass was transmitted to Lana’i High and Elementary School in Lana’i City Hawaiʻi. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Space Health: The Bio-Monitor garment was changed out as part of the 48-hr data collection session. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after a mission to the International Space Station to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. The Artemis analytical platform is used to provide automated analysis of the cardiovascular system in order to develop a near real-time assessment tool. The potential use of the Bio-Monitor system and the Artemis platform for future space missions is evaluated.
Veg-05: Plants growing in the two Veggie facilities were inspected, watered as needed, and photographed. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Separator Troubleshooting: Yesterday evening, the WHC check separator light annunciated multiple times after crew use. Yesterday’s initial troubleshooting was not successful at clearing this fault. The crew performed additional troubleshooting on the pump separator this morning and WHC was recovered back to a nominal configuration.
Emergency Stowage Inspection and Relocation: The crew finalized spare emergency hardware stowage configurations following the Crew-5 departure. The crew inspected the emergency air supply, Quick Don Mask Assembly (QDMA) attached, and ammonia filter fan bag. The crew also stowed the spare a QDMA in the US Airlock.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Small Fine Arm (SFA) Installation to SFA Storage Equipment (SSE)
OGA Cell Stack Scan
MSS Powerup

