
Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) Adapter, Global Positioning System (GPS)/Wheel Demo Unit Installation: Peake opened the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Air Lock (AL) inner hatch and extended the Slide Table into the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM). Then, with assistance from Williams, he installed the EFU adapter to the Slide Table. The EFU adapter is a new type of facility platform that is used as an interface between JEM EFU and payloads. Up to 2 payloads can be attached to the EFU adapter by Inter-Vehicular Activity (IVA) in the JPM. Peake also installed the GPS/Wheel demo unit to the EFU adapter and retracted the Slide Table from the JPM back to the JEMAL.
Gecko Gripper Setup and Operations: Williams completed Gecko Gripper Force Gauge setup and data point collection. Live HD Camcorder video was used during the experiment to document crew operations. Williams completed the pull testing for all 5 grippers (2 small, 2 medium, and one large).  Williams noted that the large gripper was very weak and sometimes pulled off the wall prior to any crew-induced force being applied to it.  The payload developer is looking into possible causes for that behavior.  The Gecko Gripper investigation tests a gecko-adhesive gripping device that can stick on command in the harsh environment of space. The technology promises to enable many new capabilities, including robotic crawlers that could walk along spacecraft exteriors; grippers that use a touch-to-stick method to catch and release objects; and sensor mounts that can work on any surface and be reused multiple times.
Thermolab Instrumentation for Circadian Rhythms: Peake began the first of a three day European Space Agency (ESA) Circadian Rhythms experiment by performing instrumentation with the Thermolab Double sensors, mounting the Thermolab Unit in the belt, connecting and powering on the Thermolab Unit, before beginning a 36 hour continuous measurement. When the measurement was complete, Peake transferred the data and stowed the hardware. The objective of the experiment is to get a better understanding of alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights. Such knowledge will not only provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, but also has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest- and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions.
Marrow: Williams took breath and ambient air samples after waking for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Marrow investigation.  The experiment investigates the effect of microgravity on human bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
Dragon On-Board Training (OBT): In preparation for SpX-8 arrival currently planned for April 10, the USOS crew practiced capturing the vehicle. During the session, the crew practiced a 30 meter (30M) approach, two Capture Point hold runs and 2m runs. 
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CPA-CP) Maintenance: Kopra completed this routine maintenance to replace the battery packs in all CSA-CPs and zero calibrate all units.
Sound Level Meter (SLM) Operations: Kopra measured the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS including the JPM, Node 2, US Lab, Service Module and Functional Cargo Block (FGB), by taking sound level readings. The data was downlinked to the ground for analysis. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

MARROW – Ambient Air Samples
Morning Inspection. SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test
Calf Volume Measurement / r/g 1787
HRF Urine Sample Collection [Aborted]
HRF – Sample Insertion into MELFI
HRF – Blood Sample Collection (subject)
HRF – Blood Sample Collection (operator)
HRF – Centrifuge 1 Configuration
Verification of anti-virus scan results on Auxiliary Computer System [ВКС] laptops –  Crew handover / r/g 8247
PFS – File transfer preparation
VIBROLAB. Monitoring hardware activation / r/g 1790
HRF – Centrifuge 2 Configuration
HRF – Sample Insertion into MELFI
Maintenance of SM АСП-О Hatch Sealing Mechanism And Progress 429 (Aft) Hatch
EFU Adapter Item Xfer
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring / r/g 1588
XF305 Camcorder Setup
HRF – Blood Sample Collection Closeout Ops
TORU OBT. Tagup with Instructor r/g 1786
Cleaning FGB Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger (ГЖТ) Detachable Screens 1, 2, 3
HRF – Sample Insertion into MELFI
ESA Weekly Crew Conference
HRF Closeout Ops
On-orbit Hearing Assessment using EARQ
JEMAL – JEM Airlock Slide Table Extension to JPM Side
Bolt Hole Cleaning on JEM AL Slide Table
PFS – Conclude File Transfer
Attaching Passive Capture Mechanism to AirLock Slide Table
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
EFU – Adapter Installation
EFU Adapter Installation Closeout
GPS/Wheel Demo Unit Installation
СОЖ Maintenance
Study of veins in lower extremities / r/g 1788
VIZIR. Running Experiment Ops aided with Photo Image Coordinate Reference System (СКПФ-У) r/g 1789
JEM A/L Slide Table Active Mechanism Tether Loop Installation
JEM Airlock Slide Table Retraction into JEM A/L from JPM
Initiation of Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operations
PAO Hardware Setup
HRF Urine Sample Collection
PAO Event
HRF – Sample Insertion into MELFI
Onboard Training (OBT) – Dragon Rendezvous and Docking Conference
Progress 429 (Aft) Activation, Air Duct Removal / Deactivation/Activation
Sony HVR-Z7ECamcorder Setup in SM (for video of SM Aft – Progress interface)
Onboard Training (OBT) – Dragon Rendezvous Procedures Review
Handover. clamp removal, hatch closure, leak check
Removal of Internal Transfer System (ССВП) Quick-Release Screw Clamps and Video Recording of SM Aft –Progress 429 Interface / Deactivation/Activation
VIBROLAB. Copy and Downlink Data / r/g 1790
SLM data transfer
SM Aft – Progress Hatch Closure / Deactivation/Activation
Cleaning ventilation screens on FGB interior panels (panels 201, 301, 401) / FGB System Operations
On MCC Go ПрК-СУ and Progress- СУ hatch leak check / Deactivation/Activation
OBT – Dragon Robotics Review
GECKO – Gripper Setup and Data Collection
IMS Delta File Prep
MPEG2 Video Downlink of Docking Assembly [СтА] I/F from SM via Ku-band
HRF – Equipment stowage after sample collection
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
ISS HAM – RADIO Deactivation
On-orbit Hearing Assessment using EARQ
SLM data transfer
Scheduled Maintenance of Compound Specific Analyzer- Combustion Products (CSA-CP)
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Search for PFS Face Mask Kit
Thermolab – Instrumentation Ops for Circadian Rhythms

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Elektron activation

