03-27-2010March 27, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 03/27/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – crew off-duty day.   >>>On this day in 1969, NASA launched Mariner 7 to Mars.<<<   At wake-up, FE-6 Creamer continued the new week-long session of experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), TJ’s third, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Also at day begin, CDR Oleg Kotov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [CDR again inspected the filters before bedtime this morning, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   The three station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   As part of the house cleaning, Kotov conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).   Oleg also took care of the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Timothy Creamer performed a new session with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.  It was his 5th time.      [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]   TJ also rebooted the OCA Router and FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) laptops, a regular bi-monthly task.   Working off his discretionary “time permitting” task list, Oleg Kotov –  Completed another Lake Baikal      video recording session with the SONY HVR-Z7U camcorder.  [Roskosmos TV      studio is working on a feature on Lake Baikal and its importance as      natural heritage, called ‘Planet Baikal’.  The feature      will be broadcast in Vesti      channel’s weekly program Kosmonavtika.       The Baikal Lake contains 20% of the world’s water reserves; it is a      beautiful and a mysterious lake.  The producers want to highlight the      grandeur of this natural gem and raise awareness about its pollution      problems. The metaphor used throughout the feature is one of a planet, an      element of the Universe and a cosmonaut talking about Baikal while on      orbit is thought to be a perfect choice to convey it. The feature item      will be filmed and broadcast to Earth in real time later (April 6-9)]; Conducted a photography      run of the GFI-8      "Uragan"      (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera (with      SIGMA AF 300-800mm telelens) of specific targets. [South coast of      Crimea from Sevastopol to Kerch, the flood situation at the      Volga-Akhtyubinsk plain and in the Irtysh river valley, rivers of Central      Russia before flooding (Oka, Don, and their estuaries, Ugra), the preflood      situation in the Don river valley, Volga-Akhtubinsk flood plain situation      & fires, overall view of Aral Sea, snow-free tips of Pamir glaciers,      the flood situation on the rivers of Europe from Rhine & Danube to      Dniester basin], Completed a session for      Russia's EKON      Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial      photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the Nikon D3X, and Performed the periodic documentary close-up      photography of the two SKK materials      exposure payloads mounted on the outside of the station,- SKK-2 on the “Pirs” Docking Compartment      (DC-1) from SM window #6, and SKK-9 on the SM      hull from the DC-1 EVA hatch window, then transferring the digital images      to a removable return disk on the RSK-1 laptop.    At ~8:30am EDT, the crew held their usual WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Two -- Week 17)   3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    No report.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:   No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):   No report.   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   Measurement and data D/L completed on 3/5-3/6.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    “Soichi: thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Your next session is scheduled for next week.”  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CETSOL (ESA):   No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.     DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    No report.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):     No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):    No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):   No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 623 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    No report.   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   “TJ, The ground team has begun the analysis on the blood samples that you and Jeff returned on 20S. The PI team would like to thank you for taking the time to ensure that full blood tubes were collected and returned to the ground.  The live cell analysis performed by this experiment utilizes every cell collected.  Your samples will go a long way to ensure a full complement of assays is achieved for your data set.”  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    No report.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  Marangoni UVP:    8th run using long liquid bridge was conducted between 3/23-3/25, by ground commanding.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE7 (Materials ISS Experiment):   MISSE7 is operating nominally.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    SCA exchange performed on 3/25 and CETSOL #1 has been installed.  Processing of SCA MICAST #2 performed overnight between 3/24 and 3/25.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.   MYCO 1 (JAXA):    Sample Collection and MELFI stow are complete.  Sample will return on 20A using DCB (Double Cold Bag).  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “TJ and Soichi, next week will start the first sleep shift session for Reaction Self Test. For a sleep shift session, Reaction Self Test is performed twice daily for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following the sleep shift.”   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    A CGSE/CBEF CO2 leak check has been completed.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “TJ, you are currently completing another week of sleep logging.  We are targeting the next monthly Actiwatch download for next week.  We will be downlinking the data for real-time PI data analysis and will inform you which Actiwatch to initialize and wear based on the data.”  SMILES (JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):     No report.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):     No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report. VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):    Through 3/24 a total of 4,449 frames of ISS/CEO imagery were received on the ground for review and cataloging.  “Greetings to the members of Increment 23 from the staff of Crew Earth Observations!  We look forward to working with you and are dedicated to your success with our payload.  Don’t hesitate to provide us feedback if we can be of any assistance to your efforts.  We are pleased to report your acquisition of imagery for the following CEO Target Requests:  Thimphu, Bhutan – excellent session of detailed, almost cloud-free views of this difficult target – requirements are complete for this site and it is being removed from our list; Chisinau, Moldavia – oblique views acquired with the 800mm lens – we will continue to request short lens views of the entire city; and Amman, Jordan – clouds obscure much of the view this target – we’ll keep trying.  Your striking view of the Llullaillaco Volcano located on the Argentina-Chile border will be published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website this weekend.  This view is an excellent visual example of the interesting volcanic feature known as a coulée where highly viscous lava flows slowly onto a steep surface.  Nice shot!   CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Monaco, Monaco (the tiny Principality of Monaco is a sovereign city-state of just over three-fourths of a square mile in area.  It is located on eastern part of the French Cote d’ Azure, between Nice and the Italian border.  This ISS nadir pass over this portion of the NW Mediterranean coast was in late morning with fair weather expected.  Looking for the waterfront airport for Nice and carefully mapping along the coast to catch the coastal strip of Monaco to the ENE), Urumqi, China (ISS had a near-nadir, late afternoon pass in fair weather, with approach from the NW.  This desert agricultural region is rapidly transitioning to the focus of China’s petroleum and natural gas exploration.  The city itself is located at the southern edge of the Junggar Basin near a pass between the Erenhaberg and Bogda Ranges.  Trying for detailed mapping of this challenging target area), Warsaw, Poland (the Polish capital lies at nadir as the station passed eastward over the Northern European Plain in early afternoon with fair weather expected.  This city of 1.7 million is located in the east central part of the country and sits astride the Vistula River), Volga - Ural Delta (ISS had a mid-afternoon pass in fair weather over this immense delta region with an approach from the WNW.  The Volga is the longest river in Europe, it drains much of western Russian and empties into the Caspian Sea.  Since 1978 Caspian Sea level has risen over 2 meters, submerging valuable wetland habitats.  Shallow coastlines like the Volga delta are especially sensitive to sea level rise.  Taking broad context views of the delta which should appear just right of track.  These kinds of images will be used to document coastal changes), Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic (this capital city of over 3 million is located on the south coast of the major island of Hispaniola in the northern Caribbean Sea.  On this early morning pass in fair weather as ISS approached the coast, the crew was to look just right of track for this urban area on the coast), Brent Impact Crater, Ontario, Canada (this target is located in southeastern Ontario and just east of Lake Huron and Georgian Bay.  Approach was in late morning from the SW in fair weather.  Brent impact crater is 3.8 kilometers in diameter and is one of the older craters, dated at approximately 396 million years.  As with many craters in Canada, this one is highlighted by lakes that partially fill the crater.  Looking slightly right of nadir using the long lens settings.  Recent satellite imagery suggests that there may still be ice on the lakes in this area), and Presquile Impact Crater, Quebec, Canada (ISS had a nadir pass in mid-afternoon and fair weather over this still-frozen area of west-central Quebec province.  CEO archives have no images of this particular impact crater in the database.  Presquile is 24 kilometers in diameter and estimated to be less than 500 million years old.  Shortly after crossing the southern end of Hudson Bay, the crew was to begin a detailed, nadir mapping strip for about one minute in an attempt to acquire this target).  