
Payloads:
Analyzing Interferometer for Ambient Air-2 (ANITA-2): Air samples were manually taken from an assigned ISS location for chemical analysis in ANITA-2. The ANITA-2 is a compact gas analyzer which can analyze and quantify 33 trace contaminants in the atmosphere aboard the ISS automatically. ANITA-2 can also detect the presence of unknown substances which can be evaluated later on the ground.
Exploration ECLSS-TOILET: The crew reviewed the Toilet System Big Picture Words for Phase 2 Operations, and then inspected the Toilet Conductivity Sensor inlet and outlet cover for potential pre-treat leaks. The Toilet Air Filter was also removed and replaced (R&Red). The old filter was bagged and the toilet housing was wiped down. Photos were taken throughout the filter R&R process and downlinked. The Toilet System is an Exploration Tech Demo that has evolved into a permanent USOS system. The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS). The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for USOS for up to 90 crew-days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent WHC/Toilet operations.
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance: Reaching and Grasping (GRASP): The GRASP Seat setup was performed and procedures were reviewed for upcoming operations. The purpose of the GRASP investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
GRIP: The third and final GRIP Supine sessions were performed. The GRIP experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements such as oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements, and tapping gestures.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-21 (J-SSOD-21): The J-SSOD-21 deployers were removed from the JEM Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP). The J-SSOD provides a novel and safe small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD, including satellite install cases with small satellites, is installed onto the MPEP by crew members, it is passed through the JEM Airlock for retrieval, positioning, and deployment by the JEMRMS.
Plant Habitat-05: The crew photographed and harvested specified Plant Habitat 05 Experiment Plates.  Unlocking the Cotton Genome to Precision Genetics (Plant Habitat-05) cultivates several cotton genotypes that differ in their ability to regenerate into whole plants from undifferentiated masses of cells known as a calli. Cotton is highly resistant to the process of plant regeneration, making it difficult to engineer stable, reproducing plants that have specific or enhanced traits such as drought resistance.  The investigation could provide a better understanding of this behavior and a pathway to avert this problem.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): The fiber optic cable spool and preform sample was exchanged and the ground initiated a run. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Activities: Following last week’s successful Radiator Beam Valve Module (RBVM) Jumper Install EVA, the crew completed several activities to replenish EMU hardware. The crew reviewed the EVA Troubleshooting Overview, packed the EMU 3015 T2 Vent Port water sample, and removed the Lithium-Ion Batteries from the Battery Stowage Compartment. An EVA Water Screen was performed to collect a Cooling Loop Sample from EMU 3004 and 3015 to screen for water carryover in the vent loop on EMU 3015, after which the recorded suit EMU data and video was downlinked, and the Airlock and EMUs were cleaned up. The crew also performed a checkout of the Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) 1018 to verify that it is functional following the inadvertent Hand Controller Module (HCM) Deploy during US EVA 80.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the water processing assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 3 (N3) Hatch Track Inspection: In order to prevent deadheading the Russian Intra-Module Ventilation (IMV) fans during N3 Hatch maintenance, the Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) PMA-1 IMV duct was uncovered. The N3 Starboard hatch tracks were inspected at the attachment points to structure as well as the hatch rollers, and the THC PMA-1 IMV duct was re-covered after the inspection was completed.
EHS Air Quality Monitor (AQM) Vent Vacuum: As part of regular preventive maintenance, the EHS AQM vents were cleaned to remove dust buildup. The AQM is part of the EHS as an Intravehicular Activity (IVA) atmospheric monitor that is used to detect and measure Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) onboard the ISS.
Completed Task List Activities:

Crew Departure Preparations
Wanted Poster for 1/2″ Gamah Fitting Plug

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

UHF 2 Activation/Deactivation
EPS Solar Array Maximum Output Test
External High Definition Camera Pan Tilt Checkout

