03-20-2010March 20, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 03/20/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew off-duty day.  Today at 1:32pm EDT, we had Vernal Equinox.  With other words: it’s Spring!   At wake-up, CDR Oleg Kotov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-4 again inspected the filters before bedtime this morning, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   The three station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   As part of the house cleaning, Kotov conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and also Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).   Oleg also completed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.   FE-6 Creamer took on a VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) program on the FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack).     [After configuring the US Lab camcorder to cover activities for POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center/Huntsville), Timothy opened the lower & upper FCF (Fluids Combustion Facility) doors, translated the FIR Optics Bench out of the rack, rotated the LMM (Light Microscopy Module) Spindle Bracket Assembly from Operate to Service position for removing the LMM Optical Test Target from the LMM X-Y Stage and installation of the CVB (Constrained Vapor Bubble) Module onto the LMM X-Y Stage in preparation for module testing, and then rotated the LMM Spindle Bracket Assembly back to Operate position.  After closing the upper & lower FCF doors, TJ turned on two switches, and notified POIC that the rack was prepared for command on RPC (Remote Power Controller.]    In the SM, Kotov completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   At ~9:20am, the CDR conducted a live ham radio session with students, post-grads, faculty and secondary school (No. 25) students at Kursk State Technical University, answering questions from the radio amateurs.     [“How do you see the future of cosmonautics?”; “These are the words in the well-known song about cosmonauts: ‘They dream not of the rumble of cosmodrome, they dream of the grass near their home.’  What do you see in your dreams on orbit?”; “Have you ever seen UFO or anything unusual in the window?”; “If given a choice of heading an expedition to Mars, but sacrificing your home comforts or your family, what would you pick?”;  “When you look through the window, do you feel like writing poetry about space?]   CDR & FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) on their schedule, via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Oleg at ~8:20am, TJ at ~4:20pm EDT.   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-5, FE-6) and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill ((FE-5, FE-6).   Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Two -- Week 16)   3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    No report.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:   No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):   No report.   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   Measurement and data D/L completed on 3/5-3/6.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    “Good signals were seen on all 5 of your PFS re-breathing sessions.  Both your blood and urine sampling met the science constraints. All your data files have been downlinked.”  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CETSOL (ESA):   No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    On 3/11 CIR/MDCA performed three successful test points. These are not part of the 196 planned test points; the PIs wanted to try burning heptane fuel at the current chamber atmosphere. Here is a summary of each test point:  Test #1 – Droplet Diameter of 3 to 4 mm, with no support fiber (freely deployed). Very successful, with very low residual velocity from deployment and ignition. Successful ignition with the flame growing and becoming dimmer. Flame continued to grow for approximately 5 sec and then extinguished (no oscillations). This is indicative of radiative extinction. There was a vapor cloud that formed several seconds after flame extinction with a large ring very far away from the droplet. The droplet remained in the FOV for over a minute after flame extinction. This will be an excellent test to observe the post-extinction droplet/ambient behavior.  Test #2 – Droplet Diameter of 3 to 4 mm, with support fiber and translation. The droplet ignited and then translated. There was a little oscillation along the axis of the fiber that stopped when the translation stopped. There appeared to be some interesting soot dynamics associated with the start and stop of translation, although we will have to wait for the HiBMS image data to see exactly what. The flame extinguished within a few seconds of the stop of translation. There was again a large cloud that formed several seconds after visible flame extinction. The droplet likely remained in the FOV of the HiBMS for the entire test.  Test #3 – Droplet Diameter of 2 mm, with no support fiber (freely deployed). This was an extra test at a smaller droplet size critical for determining the radiative quench branch of the flammability map. The fuel system had a few bubbles, but the droplet was successfully deployed and ignited. The droplet did have a small residual velocity from deployment/ignition. It probably did not stay in the FOV of the HiBMS for the entire test, but there should be enough to get a burning rate. The droplet burned to completion with a small disruption near the end. This test combined with Test #1 clearly shows the radiative quench branch for heptane in this ambient condition.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.     DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    A data downlink was performed on 3/9.  In the downlinked data, there is a relatively small data gap. This is under investigation.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):     No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):    No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   Taking photo with poem DVD was completed. Closeout on 3/16.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):    “On 3/10, FIR/LMM characterized the LMM Microscope with the 50x magnification and the LMM Test Target.  Image data was taken during crew wake with and without exercise and during crew sleep periods.  This data will be assessed over the next few days.  The minor issue with the CVB Surveillance Camera was resolved, and the camera is functioning properly.  All other features of LMM tested to date are also functioning properly.  Thank you to all crew members who notified the POIC when a particular exercise activity was not performed per the schedule.  Your diligence has helped us to obtain the highest quality data.  We look forward to the next step, which is the installation of the CVB Module - 30 mm Pentane.”  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   Tapes were returned on ULF3.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):   LAN adaptor was installed on 3/15.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 547 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    No report.   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   “TJ, Your blood draw on 3/18 marks the completion of your Integrated Immune mid mission data collection session. The PIs are processing/analyzing your samples.  Your data will add yet another piece to the puzzle in helping us address some of the critical issues of this experiment!”  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    No report.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  Marangoni UVP:    3/15-16 task was postponed due to necessary coordination.   MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MICAST (ESA):    2 processed sample cartridge assemblies (SCAs) successfully downloaded on 20A.  Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE7 (Materials ISS Experiment):   MISSE7 is operating nominally.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory):    No report.   MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.   MYCO 1 (JAXA):    Sample Collection and MELFI stow are complete.  Sample will return on 20A using DCB (Double Cold Bag).  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    “Experiment starting (MEU attached into CBEF Incubator) from 3/1.  Second sample recovery, observation using microscope and the stow completed on 3/12.  Activities of crew and ground folks were perfect.  Image playback and down link also completed successfully via IPU. Thank you very much for your cooperation.”   NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    “Jeff: You will be completing your final Nutrition/Repository session next week.  Thank you for your participation in Nutrition/Repository!”   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “TJ and Soichi: thank you for capturing photos of each of you performing Reaction Self Test!  The pictures provide insight for the principal investigator team.”   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    A CGSE/CBEF CO2 leak check has been completed.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Jeff and TJ:  You have completed another week of Sleep logging.  Jeff: Your only remaining activity will be doffing and stowing your Actiwatch prior to Soyuz undock.  TJ will download it during the next session.”  SMILES (JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):     The Sun observation window#26 started on 3/9.  Sun Tracking prematurely ended on every orbit from 3/12 to 3/15.  This impacted science acquisition for SOLACES as Sun Tracking windows were 3-5 minutes shorter than the 20 minutes that were expected. Investigation is on-going.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):     No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   “Soichi, thank you for taking the pictures for SWAB session 8.  They help provide insight to the principal investigator team.”  THERMOLAB (ESA):   No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report. VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):    Through 3/17, a total of 86,395 frames of ISS/CEO imagery were received on the ground for review and cataloging.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of imagery for the following CEO Target Requests:  Djibouti, Djibouti – several fine sets including some with sun glint – requirements complete for this target; Phnom Penh, Cambodia – excellent views – requirements complete; Iguazu Falls, Brazil – some clouds and sun glint – under evaluation; Victoria, Seychelles – finally with almost no clouds – requirements complete; Islamabad, Pakistan – good long lens views – still needing short-lens context views; and Sakura-jima volcano, Japan – good 400mm views – some soft – still needing 800mm mapping.  This has been an exceptional week for target acquisitions.  Thank you for your interest and diligence!  One of your outstanding views of the Houston metropolitan area at night will be published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website this weekend.  The diverse land use patterns of the “energy capital of the world” are beautifully illustrated by the nighttime illumination.  Kudos for this exceptional shot!   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Gaborone, Botswana (this capital city of about 200,000 is located near a southeastern country border on the Notwane River.  ISS pass was mid-morning with expected fair weather conditions.  As the station tracked northeastward over the northern hills of the Republic of South Africa, the crew was to look nadir for the city just north of a sizeable reservoir), Islamabad, Pakistan (ISS had a nadir pass at midday and clear weather over the Pakistani capital of almost 2 million.  As the station approached the foothills of the Karakoram Range from the SW, the crew was to look for this carefully laid-out city), East Haruj Megafans, Libya (this nadir, late-morning pass was over this target area which should have been in clear weather.  These megafans are in southern Libya to the north of the Tibesti Mountains.  After tracking over the western part of the mountains, looking just left of track for the very dark patch of the Waw an Namus volcano.  Then, looking nadir for the subtle erosional features to the south and east.  Trying for a detailed, nadir mapping strip), Bissau, Guinea-Bissau (there should have been fair-weather conditions for a nadir view of this target in late-morning light as ISS approached the African coast from the SW.  This capital city of nearly half a million is located on the north bank of the Geba River Estuary), and Chisinau, Moldova (ISS should have had an early afternoon pass over this target as it approached from the SW.  The Moldovan capital is located near the center of the country and inland about 120 miles from the northwestern coast of the Black Sea.  Looking nadir for this urban area of nearly one million inhabitants).  