
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2): The crew retrieved a donned sensor and handed over to the Russian crew for data retrieval. Another unit was also relocated to the crew quarters sleeping area. The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It has been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed to detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones): A crewmember performed the first session of Myotones measurements. Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation are expected to provide insight into principles of human resting muscle tone, which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions.
Cerebral Autoregulation: Today a crewmember took measurements for the 1st session of the Cerebral Autoregulation experiment. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. 
CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack): The crew swapped out the CIR Manifold 02/N2 bottles to support upcoming CIR Burning Rate Emulator runs. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity. 
Zero-Gravity Stowage Rack (ZSR) Swap: The crew relocated the ZSR in the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) to where the Resupply Stowage Rack (RSR) was located in the PMM.  The ZSR will be disposed of on HTV-8. These activities are in preparation for rack reconfiguration plans for HTV-8.
USOS Extravehicular Activity #53 Preparations: In preparation for Friday’s planned EVA, the crew completed the following:

Procedures review
Procedures conference
Tool config
EMU swap/water ops
Cuff checklist print
Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) review

Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance: The crew performed this scheduled maintenance to inspect the X-rotation dashpots, cycle the main arm through full range of motion and grease the Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (VIS) rails and rollers. The crew also greased upper stop catch plates and rack indicator catch mechanisms. 
Completed Task List Activities:

Toilet funnel ops
NG-11 trash gather
EVA tool config
Fluidics HD check
EDV hydroconnector photos
Veggie plant check

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


EVA prep support
2A battery robotic ops

Look Ahead:  
Wednesday, 03/27:
Payloads:


Cerebral Autoregulation measurements and Closeout (JAXA)
Actiwatch (Donned) data xfer (NASA)
GLACIER1 Tray and Left vertical support install (NASA)
Team Task Survey (NASA)

Systems: 

EVA prep
WHC scheduled maintenance

Thursday, 03/28:
Payloads:


HRF Blood and Urine Collections (NASA)
ISS HAM powerdown (NASA)
TTS Survey (NASA)

Systems: 

EVA prep
JEMAL depressurization/vent
SODF emergency book update

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


R PAO event report preparation
ECON-M. Observations and photo (Task list)
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance
Portable Onboard Computers (POC) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software Review
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
VOZDUKH Deactivation
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
Water fill of EDV from Progress-440 (SM Aft) Rodnik H2O Tank No.2
MATRYOSHKA-R. Tritel payload monitoring
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Replacement of ВСБ-95 СТС unit in DC1
Cerebral Autoregulation Data Measurement
Structures and Mechanisms (S&M) Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Zero-Gravity Stowage Rack (ZSR) Swap
ВСБ-95 unit checkout in DC1, DC1 СТС test.
Myotones Device Setup with EPM Laptop – Session 1
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. Ham session with students from Khabarovsk
Myotones Measurements
Crew adaptation and ISS familiarization
ПОВ-2 panel deactivation in DC1 (temporary config).
MERLIN 2 Desiccant Swap
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
Myotones Device Data Transfer
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
Structures and Mechanisms (S&M) Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Zero-Gravity Stowage Rack (ZSR) Swap
Structures and Mechanisms (S&M) Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Zero-Gravity Stowage Rack (ZSR) Move Assist
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Conference
FS1 laptop maintenance
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE dosimeter gathering and data collection
БРИ monthly maintenance
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
Glacier EXPRESS Rack Relocation
Radi-N Detector Retrieval/Readout
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons Hardware Handover
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE dosimeter handover from USOS
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE dosimeter gathering and data collection
Extra vehicular Activity Mobility Unit Swap
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge
Combustion Integrated Rack Upper Rack Doors Open
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
Vacuuming of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in DC1
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Deployment Operations
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold #2 Bottle Replacement
Environmental Health System (EHS) Grab Sample Container (GSC) Sampling Operations
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill  [Aborted]
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
Vacuuming of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in MRM2
Actiwatch Plus Evaluation Display Check
Emergency Operations (EMER) Chip Measurement System (CMS) Battery Changeout
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold #1 Bottle Valve Close
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Combustion Integrated Rack Upper Rack Doors Close
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Countermeasures System (CMS) Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Exercise Session
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
Columbus cabin restore after Myotones experiment
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cuff Checklist Print
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill Part 3
VOZDUKH Deactivation
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill

 