
Payloads
HRF-2 (Human Research Facility-2): The crew removed the failed BRP Rack Interface Controller (BRIC) from HRF Rack 2 and replaced with a new Rack Interface Controller (RIC). Human Research Facility-2 (HRF-2) provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables human life science researchers to study and evaluate the physiological, behavioral and chemical changes induced by spaceflight. Research performed using HRF-2 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Bacterial Adhesion and Corrosion (BAC): The crew moved the Habitat 3 samples back into SABL-2 and participated in a private interview regarding the BAC hardware. Polymicrobial Biofilm Growth and Control during Spaceflight (Bacterial Adhesion and Corrosion) explores the formation under microgravity conditions of multi-species biofilms, which may behave differently from single-species biofilms. This investigation identifies the bacterial genes used during biofilm growth, examines whether these biofilms can corrode stainless steel, and evaluates the effectiveness of a silver-based disinfectant. The microorganisms in biofilms can become resistant to traditional cleaning chemicals, leading to contamination of water treatment systems, damage to equipment, and potential health risks to astronauts.
J-SSOD-M2: Crewmembers removed the J-SSOD-M2 hardware from the JEM Airlock slide table. MMSAT-1 is Myanmar’s first 50 kg-class MicroSat, that deploys during the JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-M2 (J-SSOD-M2) micro-satellite deployment mission, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS). MMSAT-1’s main mission is to monitor the Earth’s surface, and is launched to the International Space Station aboard the NG-15 Cygnus Cargo Vehicle.
Manufacturing Device (MAND): A crewmember removed and stowed a MAND print. The Manufacturing Device enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the MAND printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. MAND is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Micro-16: Crewmembers performed Microscopy ops on Micro-16 sample cartridges. Loss of muscle mass and strength present a major challenge for astronauts on future long space voyages. Determining Muscle Strength in Space-flown Caenorhabditis elegans (Micro-16) uses this tiny worm to test whether decreased expression of muscle proteins is associated with decreased strength. The research team developed a new device to measure muscle strength in multiple generations of space-reared C. elegans worms and compare that strength to postflight muscle gene expression analyses.
Real-Time Protein Crystal Growth-2 (RTPCG-2): A crewmember removed the EasyXtal Screening Plate from incubation, observed and photographed the sample using the Microscope and returned the Screening Plate back to incubation. Phase II Real-time Protein Crystal Growth on Board the International Space Station (RTPCG-2) demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity can sometimes produce high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 tests high-quality proteins crystals for detailed analysis back on Earth.
Time Perception in Microgravity: The crew performed a TIME experiment combined session. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time perception in microgravity is also fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. The Time Perception in Microgravity experiment quantifies the subjective changes in time perception in humans during and after long-duration exposure to microgravity. 
Ribosome Profiling: The crew performed chamber fixation operations. Since life on Earth emerged about 4 billion years ago, living species have evolutionally adjusted to Earth’s gravity. However, how cells utilize gravity for their gene expression has remained largely unknown. The Genome-wide Survey of Translational Control in Microgravity (Ribosome Profiling) investigation aims to provide insight into how gravity impacts gene expression, with a special focus on translation regulation utilizing a state-of-art technique called “ribosome profiling”.
Completed Task List Activities:

ARED tension adjust

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Payloads ops support
JEMAL activities

