
54S Rendezvous: 54S, carrying Ricky Arnold, Drew Feustel, and Oleg Artimyev to the International Space Station, is currently conducting a 34-orbit rendezvous profile with a planned docking Friday, March 23 at 19:43 GMT (14:43 CDT).  All Soyuz systems are performing nominally.
Veg-03:  The crew watered the Veg-03 plants and continued with the photo-documentation of plant growth for the Veg-03 investigation. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets. 
Lighting Effects: A 53S crewmember completed a daily sleep log entry this morning upon waking to record his sleep patterns and wakefulness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights. 
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 49 Preparation: Today the crew configured GoPro cameras, terminated the final MetOx Regeneration cycle, degassed a Cargo Water Container (CWC) for Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) use, and terminated Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) operations in preparation for next week’s EVA. Additionally, the crew completed a Robotics On-Board Training (RoBOT) session to review procedures for next week’s EVA.  
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  Yesterday, ground specialists began a Force Movement Sensor (FMS) fine characterization of the SSRMS Latching End Effector (LEE) A. Overnight during the test, a FMS Cross Check error was triggered requiring the teams to stand down for the night. The FMS characterization will resume later this afternoon after new parameters are calculated for the test. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Biochemical Urine Test
URISYS Hardware Stowage
Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
Photo TV EVA Go Pro Battery Charging
Tropical Cyclone Untended Check
Installation of Ikarus SW on FS1 and FS1 laptops.
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Two-Phase Flow Experiment Equipment Deactivation
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Video Cable Reconfiguration to Video Compression and Recording Unit 2 (VRU2)
Progress 437 Stowage (DC1) and IMS Ops
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Calibration Check
Replacement of ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filters and Cleaning В1, B2 Fan Screens in MRM2
Tropical Cyclone Hardware Closeout
Changeout of Dust Filter ПФ1-4 Cartridges in SM
VEG-03 Dual Facility Watering for each Plant Pillow
VEG-03E & F Plant Photo
Photo TV GoPro Setup
ISS O2 Repress from Progress 437 (DC1) СрПК Section 1 (start)
ISS O2 Repress from Progress 437 (DC1) СРПК Section 1 (terminate)
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
Replacement of ИК0501 ГЛ2106 Filter Unit (БФ). Install unit No.65 
Fan replacement in ГЛ2106 Gas Analyzer.  Install unit No.236 СОЖ maintenance
On-board Training (OBT) EVA Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session
CQ outfitting for the arriving crew
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Termination
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Termination
Portable air samples with Portable O2 Monitor and CDM
ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Calibration Check Data Record
USOS Window Shutter Close

Completed Task List Activities

None 

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Standard Commanding
RoBOT Session Support
SPDM Stow and configure SSRMS for EVA

