
Vascular Echo: The crew performed blood collections, performed separation processing and placed them into cold stowage in support of the Vascular Echo study. Cardiac and Vessel Structure and Function with Long-Duration Space Flight and Recovery (Vascular Echo) examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone.
MVP Cell-03 (Multi-use Variable-g Platform): The crew performed replacements of the Nutrient tube and waste tubes. This project will study the generation of cardiomyocytes, specialized heart muscle cells, for use in research and clinical applications. Specifically, the team is studying the differentiation of these heart cells from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), adult cells that have been altered to reinstate characteristics of natural stem cells. Simulated microgravity studies have allowed the team to increase the yield, purity, and survival of cardiomyocytes derived from iPSCs, and true spaceflight conditions are expected to further enhance these effects. Understanding how microgravity improves cardiomyocyte differentiation will enable the team to create clinically relevant heart tissue for use in regenerative medicine, disease modeling, and drug discovery. 
BFF (BioFabrication Facility): The crew Performed the BFF uninstall and stow activities. The BFF is dedicated to manufacturing human organs and tissues in space, primarily for use by patients on Earth. Besides printing tissue, the BFF also can help maintain the health of deep space exploration crews by producing food and personalized pharmaceuticals on demand.
Transparent Alloys-SEBA: – The crew replaced the failed Aqua cartridge with a Black cartridge and the ground re-initiated the experiment run. The aim of the Transparent Alloys-SEBA (Solidification along an Eutectic Path in Binary Alloys) experiment is to study the morphological instabilities of directional solidified, transparent binary eutectic alloys under purely diffusive conditions. This experiment provides a real-time observation of the dynamics of eutectic front structures with a micron-scale resolution, over a large (centimetric) space scale, and over long (several 10 hours) periods of time. These observations are strongly sensitive to convective motions in liquid, which, in ordinary conditions on earth, entail a detrimental redistribution of the solute on a scale comparable to the container size. Such convective motions are suppressed in microgravity.
ADSEP (ADvanced Space Experiment Processor): The crew de-installed the ADSEP locker and prepared it for return on SpX-20. ADSEP is a thermally controlled single-middeck-locker equivalent that accommodates up to three cassette-based experiments that can be independently operated. Its companion hardware consists of a collection of several experiment cassettes, each doubly or triply contained, that accommodate experiments in cell technology, model organisms, multiphase fluids, solution chemistry, separation science, microencapsulation, and crystal growth.
Systems
SpaceX-20 (SpX-20) Dragon Cargo Operations: This week the crew continued to perform Dragon cargo operations. Ground teams estimate ~28 hours of cargo operations remain prior to Dragon departure on April 6, 2020.
Completed Task List Activities:

SpX-20 Cargo Operations (ongoing)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


BioFabrication Facility Payload Removal
Multi-use Variable-g Platform-02 Cell-03 Replace

