
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Earlier today, the crew performed EVA tool configuration, completed training on use of the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER), reviewed EVA procedures, and had a conference with ground specialists.  These activities are all in support of the US EVA #49 – Node 3 External Wireless Communications (EWC) installation scheduled for March 29, 2018. 
Cell-Free Epigenome (CFE) and Medical Proteomics: Blood samples were collected today from two 54S crewmembers to support JAXA’s CFE and Medical Proteomics investigations. The blood samples were processed in a centrifuge and placed in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  Blood carries molecular signals released from cells inside the body.  For the CFE study, blood samples are collected from astronauts and cellular genes are analyzed.  The results provide insight into how human bodies function during space flight.  The Medical Proteomics investigation evaluates changes of proteins in blood serum, bone and skeletal muscles after space flight, and also supports identification of osteopenia-related proteins. By combining research results for space mice, astronauts and ground patients, proteins related to osteopenia can be identified using the latest proteome analysis technique.  It is anticipated that the use of the marker proteins related to osteopenia will be of benefit in the future for assessing the health of astronauts as well as osteoporosis patients on ground.
Veg-03:  Today the crew watered the Veg-03 plants and continued with the photo-documentation of plant growth for the Veg-03 investigation. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets.
Lighting Effects:  Today a 53S subject provided a sleep log entry and began a 24-hour collection of urine samples. The samples will be stowed in the MELFI prior to their return and analysis.  The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights. 
Lab Mass Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Status:  The Lab MCA was taken to ‘Operate’, followed by a Zero calibration, both Saturday 24-March and today Sunday 25-March.  In both instances, telemetry indicated the MCA has not completed the dryout process.  The Lab MCA has been configured back to ‘Standby’ to complete the dryout process. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry – Subject
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Generic Frozen Blood Collection
Cell-Free Epigenome Generic Frozen Blood Collection
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Refrigerated Centrifuge Configure
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Sample MELFI Insertion
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
Portable air samples with Portable O2 Monitor and CDM
USOS Window Shutter Close
Weekly cleaning
HRF Generic Urine Collection
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval And Insertion Operations
ARED Handover Video Review
ARED Crew Handover
ISS repress with N2 from section 2 of СрПК Progress #437 (DC1) (init)
Check Closure of SM window shutters 6,8,9,12,13,14
CALCIUM.  Science ops session 1
Treadmill 2 (T2) Handover Video Review
T2 Crew Handover
СОЖ maintenance
ISS N2 repress from  Progress #437 (DC1)  [СРПК] section 2 (term)
VEG-03 Dual Facility Watering for each Plant Pillow
ISS Crew Adaptation
VEG-03E & F Plant Photo
Handover of Increment 54S Crew
Photography of trace from active [СтА] docking mechanism probe on MRM2 [АСП] cone
Soyuz 738 delivered ODF replacement
Docking cone surface photo downlink via OCA
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedures Print
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
MRM2 [АСП] hatch cover sealing mechanism and Progress #738 [АСА]  hatch cover maintenance
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) On-Board Trainer (OBT)
Portable air samples with Portable O2 Monitor and CDM
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval And Insertion Operations
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Conference 

Completed Task List Activities

54S USOS Unpack [Completed GMT 83] 

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


68P Fuel Purge
68P Oxidizer Purge
iPEHG R1P4 Transition
Standard Commanding

