
Orbital 6 (OA-6) Launch: Cygnus launched successfully last night at 10:05PM CDT. Capture is scheduled for 5:40AM CDT this Saturday with vehicle ingress on Sunday and the beginning of cargo transfer operations.
Robonaut Troubleshooting: Kopra set up a camcorder to capture standard definition video downlinks of Robonaut operations in the US Lab. He used the oscilloscope, multimeter and current probe to help guide ground teams with this troubleshooting by disengaging the controller card and successfully powering Robonaut without the controller card. The data collected from today’s activity will be analyzed by the ground to determine the cause of the fault in the power supply. Robonaut is a humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, work in high risk environments, and respond safely to unexpected obstacles. Robonaut is comprised of a torso with two arms and a head, and two legs with end effectors that enable the robot to translate inside the ISS by interfacing with handrails and seat track. In the future, it will perform tasks both inside and outside the ISS. The Robonaut Teleoperations System enables Robonaut to mimic the motions of a crewmember wearing specialized gloves, a vest and a visor providing a three-dimensional view through Robonaut’s eyes.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, and Experimental Satellites (SPHERES): Peake set up the EXPRESS Laptop Computer (ELC) and SPHERES work area and loaded the SPHERES and Avionics Stack with test session specific programs before beginning a test run. After completing the test session, Peake downloaded the data and disassembled the SPHERES and Docking Port hardware before re-assembling the Vertigo Goggles. SPHERES are bowling-ball sized spherical satellites that will be used inside the ISS to test a set of well-defined instructions for spacecraft performing autonomous rendezvous and docking maneuvers. Three free-flying spheres will fly in the cabin of the ISS, performing flight formations. Each satellite is self-contained with power, propulsion, computers and navigation equipment. The results are important for satellite servicing, vehicle assembly and formation flying spacecraft configurations.
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab 1 (SABL1) Locker Troubleshooting: SABL was to undergo a two week checkout of the new facility in the Lab but the SABL hardware was powered off after the hardware temperature rose beyond the nominal range. Today Williams set up the XF305 Camcorder and removed SABL1 from the EXPRESS Rack 8 (ER8). He successfully repaired a dent in the inlet screen, then powered up SABL1 outside the ER to verify nominal fan/screen operation. SABL1 was re-installed in the ER and both SABL1 and 2 were powered on. The Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Quick Disconnect (QD) leaked during installation of SABL2, but stopped after the crew tightened it during their operations today. SABL is required for use with the Micro-10 investigation that has hardware arriving on SpX-8. SABL supports a wide variety of experiments in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It is capable of supporting life science research on microorganisms, small organisms, animal cells, tissue cultures and small plants.
Manufacturing Device – Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF) Locker Preparation: In preparation for the Manufacturing Device that arrives on OA-6, Williams removed the ER locker, installed the vent closeout panel, and completed the Solid State Power Control Module (SSPCM) Access hole gray tape installation. The AMF enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the AMF. It is also capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
OA-6 Arrival Preparations: In preparation for OA-6 arrival scheduled for this Saturday, the crew completed the following:

On-Board Training (OBT) Cygnus Vehicle Operations: The USOS crew members reviewed training materials covering Cygnus attached phase operations. The review included an overview of Cygnus hardware, stowage and attached phase configuration.
Node 3 (N3) Cleanup: Williams removed items from N3 and relocated to the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) in preparation for OA-6 and SpX-8 arrival.

Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.

МО-8. Configuration Setup
МО-8. Body Mass Measurement r/g 1729
МО-8. Closeout Ops
Video Downlink End
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
ROBONAUT – Installation of camcorder for EPO video
WRS Maintenance
Faulty Operation of CPCI Robonaut.
Removal of GoPro cameras in Soyuz 720. Transfer of Video to Hard Drive
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV
MD – Setup Ops
SPHERES – Data Export
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops r/g 1716
WRS Maintenance
СОЖ Maintenance
SPHERES – Camera Setup and Video Recording
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops r/g 1730
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
CARDIOVECTOR. Photography of the Experiment Ops / r/g 1731
Collect SM and FGB Air Samples Using АК-1М Sampler r/g 1732
SPHERES – Battery Stowage
Soyuz 720 Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 1691
SPHERES – Running Tests
UDOD. Experiment Ops using DYKNANIYE-1 and SPRUT-2 Sets r/g 1744
UDOD. Photography of the Experiment Ops / r/g 1745
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
DOSETRK – Software Update
Terminating charge of Soyuz 720 GoPro HERO3 Camcorder battery pair 1 and initiating charge of pair 2
DOSETRK – iPad configuration
R2 – Hardware Deactivation and Stowage
Familiarization with Auxiliary Computer System [ВКС] r/g 1740, 1741
DOSETRK – Data Export
Station Support Computer (SSC) System Log-in
SPHERES – Data Export
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab 1 (SABL1) Locker Troubleshooting
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 2 r/g 1733
DOSETRK – Data Export
Progress 429 (Aft) Stowage and IMS Ops / r/g 1682, 1484
HABIT – Video of the Experiment [Deferred]
Stow Earlier Installed Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK)
Terminating charge of Soyuz 720 GoPro HERO3 Camcorder battery pair 2
Cygnus Ops Review
GoPro cameras stowage in Soyuz 720
Verify ИП-1 sensor position – Handover / SM Pressure Control & Atmosphere Monitoring System
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position / SM Pressure Control & Atmosphere Monitoring System
Multi Omics (MO) – Saliva collection equipment setup
MERLIN Desiccant Swap
N3 Cleanup
CONTENT. Experiment Ops r/g 1738
В3 Fan Screen Cleaning in MRM2
SPHERES – Disconnect the USB from the SSC and stow

Completed Task List Items

WHC KTO replace

Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.

Robonaut troubleshooting support
Nominal ground commanding

