
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Today the crew continued preparing for US EVA #49 – Node 3 External Wireless Communications (EWC) installation, planned for Thursday March 29, 2018. They completed additional Airlock and Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) configuration and performed an EMU Water Tank and Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garment (LVCG) Water Fill. 
Television Camera Interface Converter (TVCIC) Fastener Remove and Replace (R&R): Today two crewmembers R&Rd the three life-limited TVCIC fasteners that secure the unit to the Video Stanchion Support Assembly (VSSA). This TVCIC is required for the External Television Camera Group (ETVCG) scheduled to be installed during Thursday’s EVA.
Cloud-Aerosol Transport System (CATS) Relocation: Overnight, ground controllers relocated the CATS payload from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Exposed Facility Unit (EFU)-3 to EFU-8.  CATS operational power was enabled for 4 minutes but no current draw was observed, which indicates CATS is failed. CATS is now off and will remain in the current location until returned on the SpaceX-17 vehicle. Since no current draw was observed at the new location, there is increased confidence that the EFU-3 site will be ready to support the Orbiting Carbon Observatory (OCO)-3 payload arriving on SpX-17. 
Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA):  Overnight, ground specialist completed a full calibration on the Lab MCA. Post-calibration, all data from the unit looks good and the MCA has achieved Spec Accuracy.  At this time, the LAB MCA is a GO for use.     
AstroPi:  To prepare for the European AstroPi Challenge 2017-2018 the crew installed the new Micro SD Cards with an updated Operating System on both AstroPis.  They also installed a wireless dongle and an optical filter on the AstroPi infrared camera.  The two AstroPis are augmented Raspberry Pi computers equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detects how the station moves through space, and picks up the Earth’s magnetic field. One of the AstroPis has an infrared camera and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera. 
Veg-03:  Today the crew watered the Veg-03 lettuce plants and harvested select leaves for consumption. The plants will be left to grow and sprout new leaves. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets.
Meteor: The crew replaced the hard drive in the Meteor laptop and the diffraction grating in the Meteor camera located in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).  The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument with used to observe meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. Since the parent comets or asteroids for most of the meteor showers are identified, the study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.   
Food Acceptability:  A crewmember completed a Food Acceptability questionnaire today. The Food Acceptability investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
Lighting Effects: A 53S subject conducted a series of three Cognition tests during the day and made a sleep log entry this morning upon waking. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): Today the crew performed routine maintenance on the MSG.  They inspected and cleaned the MSG Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) fan filter and applied grease to the MSG slide rails.
Dragon On-Board Training (OBT):  Today the crewmembers scheduled to capture SpX-14 Dragon completed the first in a series of Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) sessions. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. SpX-14 is on track to launch April 2, 2018 and berth to ISS on April 4, 2018.     
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry – Subject
Lighting Effects Cognition Test 1 – Subject
COSMOCARD. Preparing for and Starting 24-hr ECG Recording Tagup with specialists
Replacement of Gas Analyzer ИК0501 СО2 Filter Unit.
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
Photo TV Battery Charge Initiation
Gathering equipment for EDV to WPA activity
Water Resource Management (WRM) EDV to Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Transfer
BIOCARD. Operator Assistance During the Experiment
BIOCARD. Experiment Session. 
HRF Medical Consumables Kit Resupply
Extrvehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge
Genes in Space MELFI Sample Trash
ISS Crew Orientation
Genes in Space MELFI Sample Trash
Saving data on RSK2 prior to installation of new SW version 5.0.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garment (LVCG) Water Fill
Television Camera Interface Converter (TVCIC) Stowage Gather
БД-2 Exercise (Familiarization)
Saving data on RSK2 prior to installation of new SW version 5.0.
Installation of Version 5.0 SW on RSK2 Laptop. Tagup with specialists
Television Camera Interface Converter (TVCIC) Fastener Remove and Replace
Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Installation
Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Powered Hardware Checkout
Removal of HERO3 camera in Soyuz 738.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Equipment Lock Preparation Part 1
IMS Update
Meteor On Board Training Review
Meteor Hard Drive Diffraction
Preventive maintenance of DC1 АСП hatch sealing mechanisms and Progress 437 [АСА] hatch
Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-Board Training
Preparations for the European AstroPi Challenge 2017-2018
Photo TV Battery Charge Swap
Lighting Effects Cognition Test 2 – Subject
Progress 437 (DC1) Activation, Air Duct Removal
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Connecting HDV Sony HVR-Z7E Camcorder in DC1 and starting NASA MPEG-2 Viewer application (for TV coverage of Removal of Quick Release Screw Clamps (ЗВБ)”
PAO Preparation
VEG-03E Consumption Harvest #2
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Removal of Quick-Release Screw Clamps from DC1-Progress 437 Interface and Video of the Interface
Food Acceptability Questionnaire – Subject
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 1
DC1-Soyuz Hatch Closure
Familiarization with Auxiliary Computer System [ВКС]. Tagup with specialists
СО-СУ and ТКГ-СУ hatch leak check
Microgravity Science Glovebox AAA Fan Screen and Slide Maintenance
Soyuz 738 HERO3 GoPro HEROS camera battery charge (6) termination and stowage.
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Photo TV Battery Charge Swap
Deactivation of HDV Sony HVR-Z7E camcorder and closing of NASA MPEG-2 Viewer application
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Exercise session using КОР-01-Н set. Tagup with specialists as necessary
Removal of Quick Release Screw Clamps (ЗВБ) Video  Downlink via OCA (if necessary)
VEG-03 Dual Facility Watering for each Plant Pillow
Checking БД-2 treadmill carriage position
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Setup
Soyuz 738 Transfers and IMS Ops
Robotic Workstation (RWS) High Definition (HD) Monitor Downlink
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
CEVIS Handover Video Review
CEVIS Crew Handover
ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
Lighting Effects Cognition Test 3 – Subject
Portable air samples with Portable O2 Monitor and CDM
Photo TV Battery Charge Deactivation 

Completed Task List Activities

None 

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


RWS Ground Camera Calibration
Standard Commanding

