
JAXA MHU-5 (JAXA Mouse Habitat Unit-5): The crew performed routine mouse habitat maintenance activities for the continuing Mouse Mission-5 investigation. JAXA Mouse Habitat Unit-5 (MHU-5) examines the effects of partial G on mice using the JAXA-developed mouse habitat cage units (HCU) that can be installed in the newly developed Centrifuge-equipped Biological Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) on the ISS. Stress caused by partial G may alter gene expression in cells of the body. The investigation analyzes any such alterations and their possible effects on development of germ cells, which carry genetic information and expression to subsequent generations.
NanoRacks Module-9: The crew performed the 3rd set of operations (“Ops 3”) on the NanoRacks Module-9 tube.  Ops 3 involves the mixture of Tube #2, which looks at the ability of Quinoa (a type of grain) growth in microgravity. NanoRacks-National Center for Earth and Space Science Education-Gemini includes 41 microgravity experiments designed by students in grades 5 through 12 and college. The experiments range from examinations of water filtration and purification to synthetic soil production, rust formation, antibiotic effectiveness, growth and development of microacquatic organisms, and growth of plant, fungi, and bacteria. Each was chosen from more than 3,000 entries submitted by more than 23,000 U.S., Canadian, and Brazilian students. The experiments use NanoRacks MixStix, miniature laboratories activated by the ISS crew and are eventually returned to the student teams on Earth for analysis.
Rhodium Space Microbiome: The crew inserted samples S/n’s #5, #7, and #6 into the SABL unit for incubation and then removed #5 and placed it into the MELFI cold stowage facility. Genomics Investigation of Human Gut Microbiome to Determine Effects of Microgravity Exposures (Rhodium Space Microbiome) examines the effects of spaceflight on the human gut microbiome, a complex community of numerous bacterial species. Developing a better understanding shifts in microbiome diversity and function and how they affect human health and performance may help protect people on future missions. Recent studies have shown a connection between alterations in the structure and function of the gut microbiome and multiple chronic and acute diseases. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


SPDM Robotics Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) Stow
BioFabrication Facility Test Cassette Removal
Mobile Servicing System Walk-off Maneuver
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator Un-stow
Dragon Trunk Camera Checkout
Complete SPDM Body Camera Survey and Mnvr MSS to Bart Park Position
Node3 MCA Initial Activation after ORU2 R&R (part 3)

