
Payloads:
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): Six Plant Experiment Units were installed in the CBEF Micro-G Sample Tray. CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility; it is an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
Rodent Research Facility: A crewmember performed an audit of Rodent Research supplies and hardware and trashed some items. The Rodent Research Facility provides rodent housing on board the ISS. Animal research is essential for understanding the impacts of spaceflight on the systems of the human body, and for development of potential therapies that will ease harmful responses to space flight. The advisory panel for Animal and Human Biology appointed by the Committee for the Decadal Survey on Biological and Physical Sciences in Space was unanimous in its recommendation that an animal habitat be incorporated as soon as possible into the ISS.
Sampling Quadrangle Assemblages Research Experiment (SQuARE): All six photo locations in the COL, JEM, NODE1, NODE2, NODE3 and LAB were removed. This completes the 60-day experiment run. ISS Archaeological Project – SQuARE focuses on different kinds of material culture – objects and built spaces together with their symbolic and social meanings.  Results could help define the significance of material culture in a space habitat and ultimately help space agencies understand how different objects and spaces are used over time.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): The spool and preform sample was installed and the ground initiated a run which was followed by a sample (spool and preform) exchange. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation: Today, the USOS crew continued preparations for the upcoming Radiator Beam Valve Module (RBVM) Jumper Install EVA, which will re-install two refurbished RBVM Jumpers and the Port Aft Red-Green-Blue (RGB) T-Handles, and Remove and Replace (R&R) an External High Definition Camera (EHDC) on Camera Port 8 (CP8). Final preparations included installation of the EVA Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) Battery, an EVA Tool Configuration and Audit, and Equipment Lock (E-LK) Prep to prepare the EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) and Airlock for tomorrow’s EVA and suit donning. The crew also set up the Portable Onboard Computers (POC) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) and reviewed procedures and conducted a conference with ground specialists. US EVA #80 is scheduled for Wednesday, March 23rd with Joint Airlock Egress occurring at ~8:10am CT.
Brine Processor Configuration Check: The Brine Processor Fill Slider Assembly configuration was reviewed by the crew to check for leakage and whether the slider is still mated to the bladder quick disconnect (QD). The slider was found to have been engaged and the crew disengaged the slider.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

LSR Check-Out Actvities in MCM Mode following Operative System Update
BCDU Preemptive Refresh
MSS Hover Maneuver
Dragon Prop ISO Close

