
EPO AstroPi: The crew inserted the AstroPi Micro SD card into SSC 11 and 19 in order to upgrade AstroPi OS software from Visual cameras to Infrared camera capability on laptops. In the European AstroPi Challenge, students and young people are offered the amazing opportunity to conduct scientific investigations in space by writing computer programs that run on Astro Pi’s – special Raspberry Pi computers aboard the ISS.  Students can choose either ‘Life in Space’ or ‘Life on Earth’ as themes for their experiments.
MISSE-13 (Materials International Space Station Experiment-13): The crew removed the 5 returning MSCs from the JEM Airlock and packed them in preparation for return on SpX-20. The Materials International Space Station Experiment-13-NASA (MISSE-13-NASA) continues a series of investigations examining how the harsh environment of space affects new materials and material configurations needed for specific space missions. It includes investigations into the performance and durability in space of polymers, composites, thermal protection systems, photovoltaic technologies and radiation shielding materials. MISSE experiments incorporate lessons learned from previous missions and fly similar materials on multiple missions to determine erosion and degradation trends and help forecast durability.
NanoRacks Module-51: The crew performed a status check #3 on the sub-experiment science sample packets for Module-51. These sub-experiments are the Vitamin-C Flask with syringe, Waxworm flask, Adipic acid and Venom flex plates, Yeast and amylase mixture tubes, and Flask with Flatworms.  Inspections of the experiments went well and the hardware was stowed.  NanoRacks Mod-51 itself is an aluminum module with a Velcro lid that can accommodate various sub-experiments.
STaARS BioScience-9: The crew removed the STaARS kit (s/n 1012) and placed it into cold stowage. Tapping Microgravity to Enhance Biofuel Production (STaARS BioScience-9) aims to identify novel biological mechanisms using genetically modified Escherichia coli (E. coli) to improve the bio-production of isobutene to an extent that economically competes with petrochemical production processes.
Vascular Echo: The crew took PDOP leg Doppler measurements during a recovery phase from a 1 minute exercise period. Cardiac and Vessel Structure and Function with Long-Duration Space Flight and Recovery (Vascular Echo) examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone.
Rhodium Space Microbiome: The crew inserted Chamber s/n 0007 from the SABL incubator into cold stowage. Genomics Investigation of Human Gut Microbiome to Determine Effects of Microgravity Exposures (Rhodium Space Microbiome) examines the effects of spaceflight on the human gut microbiome, a complex community of numerous bacterial species. Developing a better understanding shifts in microbiome diversity and function and how they affect human health and performance may help protect people on future missions. Recent studies have shown a connection between alterations in the structure and function of the gut microbiome and multiple chronic and acute diseases.
Bartolomeo: The ground robotics team successfully extracted the Bartolomeo external platform from the SpX-20 Dragon trunk. The platform will be transferred and installed on the ram side of the Columbus module. The European external platform Bartolomeo is an enhancement of the ISS European Columbus Module and its infrastructure. Designed to meet user requirements from the commercial and institutional sector, Bartolomeo is a new external payload hosting facility on the ram side of Columbus that is mechanically attached to the ram-facing primary and secondary trunnions, and uses the Columbus Parking Position Interface (PAPOS) for electrical and data interfacing.
Veggie PONDS Validation: The crew installed Ponds Modules S/N 1 through 12, performed a water fill of each module and then powered up and initiated the facility by setting the lighting intervals. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food. Therefore, understanding how plants respond to microgravity and demonstrating the reliable vegetable production on orbit are important steps toward that goal. Veggie PONDS uses a newly developed passive nutrient delivery system and the Veggie plant growth facility aboard the ISS to cultivate lettuce and mizuna greens which are to be harvested on-orbit, and consumed, with samples returned to Earth for analysis.
Made In Space – RECYCLER: The crew used a multimeter to check resistance across multiple power pin pairs on the Recycler hardware. This is part of troubleshooting efforts to determine the source of a power short on the unit. The Made in Space – RECYCLER recycles polymer materials into filament that can be used as feedstock for the Made in Space 3D printer on the space station. Crews can use materials and parts that have reached the end of their useful life to create new items using 3D printing. This reduces the weight and mass of supplies that must be brought into space from Earth, an important capability for deep space missions.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Veggie Ponds Experiment Initiation

