
Payloads:
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): Vials were inserted into the BFF that contained Cell Cassette 20510 in order to re-attempt a print session from the previous day’s aborted session. Four cleaning (Bio-ink) syringes were swapped out, media was applied into the BFF and tissue printing was initiated. The Cassette was removed, and Cassette 20511 was installed for a future printing session. BFF Assembled Next-gen Development of Collagenous Allograft Meniscal Prosthetics aboard the International Space Station (BFF-Meniscus) evaluates the feasibility of using the BFF to print a meniscus. The tissue is printed using a combination of collagen and human allogenic mesenchymal stem cells and allowed to develop into mature tissue. Scientists evaluate the tissue’s mechanical properties and compare it to identically bioprinted tissues on Earth.
Systems:
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound Exams: The crew used the Ultrasound 2 device to first perform a Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) Exam and then performed eye exams using the same ultrasound equipment. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams. However, this routine medical exam still utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. The crew then performed eye exams using the same ultrasound equipment. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board in order to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: With unpack coming to an end, the crew began to repack the SpX-27 Cargo Dragon by loading payloads and hardware in preparation for vehicle undock on Saturday, April 15th.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: The crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

BFF Operations Support
SPS FCH Troubleshoot
ACS OPM Execute
Crew Dragon System Checkout
MISSE-17 Transfer Operations

