
ISS HAM pass: The crew participated in an ISS HAM contact with North Point School for Boys, Calgary, Alberta, Canada where students range from kindergarten to ninth grade. Questions involved astronaut training, the daily routine of an astronaut, and Extravehicular Activity (EVA) activities. ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units. 
Standard Measures: As part of the Standard Measures investigation, the crew completed their pre-sleep questionnaires. The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.
Time Perception: Using a head-mounted Oculus Rift display, headphones, finger trackball and laptop computer, the crew performed the Time Perception science sessions. A program on the laptop induces visual and audio stimuli to measure a subject’s response to spatial and time perception in a microgravity environment. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time is fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. 
EVA Preparations: In preparation for this Friday’s scheduled EVA today the crew completed the following:

Tool config
Suit IV briefing package review
Photo/TV camera config
Tool audit
EVA cuff checklist update

On-Board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization: The 58S crew completed this OBT to become familiar with the locations of equipment and positions of valves used in emergencies. During training crew members consulted with specialists at the various control centers and practiced communication from both US and Russian modules.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


EVA prep support
EVA robotics

Look Ahead:  
Thursday, 03/21 (GMT 080):
Payloads:


AstroPi
LSG fan cable swap
Payload NAS vent clean
Standard Measures

Systems:

EVA prep

Equipment Lock prep
Procedures review
GoPro setup
iPad prep


Hatch seal inspection
JEM stowage consolidation

Friday, 03/22 (GMT 081):
Payloads:


No utilization activities

Systems: 

US Battery EVA #1

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


R PAO event report preparation
ECON-M. Observations and photo (Task list)
Reminder 2 Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Generic Frozen Blood Collection
TIME Perception experiment constraints reminder
KORREKTSIYA. Starting Accelerometry
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection 25 Minutes – Subject
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection – Operator
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Configuration
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Spin Conclude
KORREKTSIYA. Log Entry of Liquids and Food (Medicine) Intake
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Sample MELFI Retrieval and Insertion
Checkout of VOZDUKH Atmosphere Revitalization Subsystem [СОА] Desiccant Selector Valves (ПКО) (2) in Spares
Time experiment session (setup, science and stowage)
Crew Time for ISS Adaptation and Orientation
Water Recovery Management (WRM) Condensate Pumping Initiation
Terminate EMU Battery Charging
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization
Integrated Emergency Hardware Familiarization.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Session
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization
Vacuum cleaning ventilation grille on FGB interior panels (201, 301, 401)
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
Extravehicular Activitiy (EVA) Suit Intravehicular (IV) Review
Lighting Effects Light Meter Setup
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
KORREKTSIYA. Log Entry of Liquids and Food (Medicine) Intake
Handover of Increment 59 Crew
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Handover of Increment 59 Crew
KORREKTSIYA. Experiment Setup
PILOT-T. Preparation for the experiment.
СОЖ maintenance
Virtual Reality Training (VRT) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER)
Lighting Effects Light Meter Ambient Readings
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops.
Photo/TV Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Camera Configuration
Lighting Effects Light Meter Stow
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config JEM Setup
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
PILOT-T. Experiment Session 1.
PILOT-T. Photography of the Experiment Ops
Crew Discretionary Event
Multiple User System for Earth Sensing Server Vent Cleaning
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Audit
Private Psychological Conference (PPC)
Behavioral Core Measures Journals Entry
Private Psychological Conference (PPC)
PILOT-T. Closeout Session 1.
Cleaning vent screens on FGB interior panels 116, 316, 231, 431
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cuff Checklist Print
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test

 