
U.S. Crew Half Duty Day: Following yesterday’s successful EVA, today was a half duty day for the US crew. They executed standard post EVA activities including a Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) water recharge, returning equipment to the Airlock, Metal Oxide (METOX) regeneration, battery maintenance, and a debrief with ground teams. 
Habitability Observations: The crew documented and submitted observations per tasks from the last few weeks related to human factors and habitability. The crew selects from various topics including housekeeping activities, trash management, accumulation of dust, items not stowed, frequency of housekeeping, and effectiveness of housekeeping tools. The investigation collects observations about the relationship between crewmembers and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
Space Headaches Questionnaire: The crew performed their weekly questionnaire, answering questions utilizing the Data Collection Tool. The European Space Agency (ESA) investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

KORREKTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
Soyuz 732 Descent Drill and Return Equipment List & Stowage Consultation
HMS Periodic Health Status (PHS) Post EVA Examination
Cygnus PROX Switch OFF
Water Recovery System Waste Water Tank Drain Termination
Strata Status Check
ISS Crew departure preparation
LBNP Training (PRELIMINARY)
JEM System Laptop Terminal Reboot
Inspect CWC-I attached to UPA SPA.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
Sokol Space Suit leak check
Replacement СПП-2 in [АСУ]
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Deactivation
Sokol Suit Dryout, Setup Suits 1 and 2 for Drying
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Teardown
LBNP Training
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Debrief
On MCC GO MPEG2 Multicast and Unicast Video Streaming Test
PROBIOVIT. Setup of Probiovit Kits No.3, No.4 in ТБУ-В at +4 °С
KORREKTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
Hardware prepack for return and disposal on Soyuz 732
Terminate Suits 1, 2 Dryout
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge
ISS HAM Radio and Video Power Up
Meteor Shutter Open
Start drying the 3rd space suit and setup the 1st pair of gloves for drying
Photo/TV Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Camera Disassembly
Removal of [АСН-К] Navigation Module from Progress 435.Tagup with specialists as necessary
PROBIOVIT. Cryogem-03 Removal
EVA Airlock Restow
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Finish drying the 1st pair of gloves and start drying the 2nd pair
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Termination
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations
Long Duration Sorbent Testbed Status Check.
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF1 Configuration Alternate 1
Terminate drying the second pair of gloves
Pille Dosimeter Readout after US EVA
Pre-pack cargo items for return or disposal on Soyuz 732
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Nikon still camera sync with station time
Finish drying the 3rd suit, start drying the 3rd pair of gloves                 

Completed Task List Items

None 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Post EVA support
Incorporate EXT R9 patch on all connected PCSs

