
SpaceX Crew-1 Port Relocation: This morning, NASA astronauts Mike Hopkins, Victor Glover, and Shannon Walker along with JAXA astronaut Soichi Noguchi, undocked the SpaceX Crew Dragon Resilience from the forward port of the International Space Station’s Harmony module at 5:25 a.m. CT and relocated to the space-faring port at approximately 6:08 a.m. CT.  The relocation has freed Harmony’s forward port for the docking of Crew Dragon Endeavour, set to carry four crew members to the station on NASA’s SpaceX Crew-2 mission later this month.  
Payloads
AC Touch: Per standard procedure, the crew touched both the coated and uncoated coupons for this long-term investigation.  Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Repository: In support of the Repository investigation, the crew collected urine samples and set up for a blood draw later in the week.  Repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
T2AR:  In preparation for later T2AR activities, the crew unstowed and charged the sidekick (HoloLens) device.  Autonomous Systems and Operations (T2 Treadmill Augmented Reality Procedures or simply T2AR) conducts tests using augmented reality to help crew members perform inspection and maintenance on the Combined Operational Load Bearing External Resistance Treadmill (COLBERT). The ability to perform such tasks without assistance from Mission Control is vital for future space exploration such as a mission to Mars, where significant time delays occur in communications between space and ground. Using augmented reality to guide astronauts through complex spacecraft maintenance and repair activities also reduces the time needed for training and task performance.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Airlock Unstow – the crew removed stowage in the Airlock in Preparation for this week’s Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Battery Operations Terminal (EBOT) installation in the Forward Rack of the Equipment Lock.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Crew-1 Port Relocation Ground ops
Primary Power System (PPS) Beta Gimbal Assembly (BGA) Latch
Attitude Control System (ACS) Global Positioning System (GPS) Antenna and Relative Navigation Management
Structural Dynamics Measurement System (SDMS) Data Dump
GEDI Payload Laser Inhibit Removal

