
Payloads:
Engineered Heart Tissue-2 (EHT-2): The crew gathered the EHT-2 tissue chambers and performed the steps necessary to exchange the media, obtain samples for later analysis, and add treatments to the appropriate tissue growth areas. A Human iPSC-based 3D Microphysiological System for Modeling Cardiac Dysfunction in Microgravity-2 (Engineered Heart Tissues-2) continues work with 3D cultured cardiac muscle tissue to assess human cardiac function in microgravity. Previous work with 3D cultures in space detected changes at the cellular and tissue level that could provide early indication of the development of cardiac disease. This investigation tests whether new therapies prevent these negative effects from occurring.
ESA Biofilms: To conclude the experiment session, the twenty-four Biofilms Experiment Containers (ECs) were removed from Kubik5 and Kubik6 and prepared for return to the ground. The Biofilm Inhibition On Flight Equipment and On Board the ISS Using Microbiologically Lethal Metal Surfaces (ESA-Biofilms) investigation studies bacterial biofilm formation and antimicrobial properties of different metal surfaces under spaceflight conditions in altered gravity. Antimicrobial surfaces, copper and its alloys, with and without laser surface treatment, are used. This project provides additional information in the development of suitable antimicrobial surfaces for spaceflight applications.
ISS Ham Radio: The crew initiated an ISS Ham session with Collège Saint-Anatoile, Salins-Les-Bains, France. Questions asked by the students include if weightlessness changes the way astronauts breathe, if the effects of global warming can be seen from the ISS, and how long the air supply can last in the space suits. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Lumina: Lumina hardware was rebooted and data was transferred to an SSC laptop for subsequent downlink. Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina) is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-rays, and X-ray photons or neutrons.
Materials ISS Experiment (MISSE): The MISSE Transfer Trays (MTTs) and associated MISSE Science Carriers (MSCs) were removed from the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table and packed for return on SpX-27. The MISSE facility provides a unique platform to perform applied materials testing or technical demonstrations. The primary MISSE Flight Facility (FF) platform provides the ability to test materials, coatings, and components or other larger experiments in the harsh environment of space, which is virtually impossible to do collectively on Earth. Testing in low-Earth orbit (LEO) allows the integrated testing of how materials react to exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UV), atomic oxygen (AO), ionizing radiation, ultrahigh vacuum (UHV), charged particles, thermal cycles, electromagnetic radiation, and micro-meteoroids in the LEO environment.
Monoclonal Antibodies Protein Crystal Growth-2 (PCG-2): Microscopy was performed on a 96-well experiment card to observe the droplets and any crystals that have formed. Screening and Batch Manufacture of Complex Biotherapeutics in Microgravity (Monoclonal Antibodies PCG-2) examines the crystallization process for various biotherapeutics, including monoclonal antibodies, in microgravity. Crystallization could significantly reduce production costs and enable formulations of biotherapeutics that do not need cold storage and that can be administered more easily, such as by injection rather than intravenous administration.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Prep Operations: In preparation of the upcoming RS and US EVAs, the crew terminated charging on Li-Ion Batteries using the EVA Battery Operations Terminal. The fully charged EVA Batteries were then removed and placed in the Battery Stowage Compartment. In addition, the crew gathered tools and separated the Li-Ion EHIP Power Adapter Module, Helmet Light, EMU TV, and HD EMU Camera from EMU 3004’s Helmet. The hardware and tools were then transferred over to the RS segment for the upcoming RS EVA.
Water Recovery System (WRS) Potable Bus Sample: The crew obtained a sample of the potable water bus from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Aux Port after purging the stagnant lines within the PWD. The PWD receives water from the ISS Potable Water Bus and has the capability of dispensing hot and ambient temperature de-iodinated water from 25 to 250 mL in 25 mL increments.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: The crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
JEM ORU Transfer Interface (JOTI) Removal: The crew removed the JOTI which has been configured for the MTT from the JEMAL Slide Table (ST). This activity was performed by extending the JEMAL ST into the JPM and moving the Capture Mechanism to the released position. The JOTI is designed to transfer Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) compatible On-orbit Replacement Units (ORUs) between the internal and external environment, thereby creating the robotic capability for ORU R&Rs and payload transfers.
Completed Task List Activities:

PCS USB to 1553 Adapter Cable R&R
SSC System Surface Pro 5 Pre-Loading
Wanted Poster: CEVIS Control Panel
LED Work Light Familiarization

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MISSE MTT Removal and Stowage Support
MT Translation
SPDM Stow/Unstow
MSS Walkoff Maneuver
PRO LSG Commanding
Engineered Heart Tissues-2 Support

