04-08-2010April 08, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 04/08/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  FD4 (Flight Day 4) of STS-131/19A. Crew sleep cycle shifting – see below.  Overnight, the MPLM (Multi-Purpose Logistics Module) Leonardo was transferred from the Shuttle cargo bay to the ISS and attached to the Node-2 nadir port.  The crew then ingressed the MPLM to begin initial cargo transfers.   The successful transfer was concerted team work by ISS & Shuttle crewmembers:  With MS3 Stephanie Wilson & MS4 Naoko Yamazaki at the controls, the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) grappled and unberthed the MPLM at ~11:22pm EDT last night, then transferred it to the Node-2;Soichi Noguchi & Timothy Creamer, stationed in Node-2, supported first & second stage capture of the MPLM by the nadir port CBM (Common Berthing Mechanism), completed by 12:04am;Readying the vestibule between the Node-2 nadir hatch and Leonardo’s hatch for access, Naoko Yamazaki & Tracy Caldwell-Dyson were prime for vestibule pressurization;Clay Anderson & Soichi Noguchi then performed vestibule leak checks, configured for ingress and activated the module, whileTJ Creamer, who was prime for powering up the CBCS (Centerline Berthing Camera System inside Node-2 prior to MPLM installation and removing it afterwards, had prepared the Lab, Kibo & Cupola windows by closing their external protective shutters.  At wake-up (8:21 pm last night), CDR Kotov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [CDR again inspected the filters before bedtime this morning (with Skvortsov for handover/familiarization), currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also at wake-up, FE-1 Skvortsov terminated his first experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  FE-5 Noguchi & FE-6 Creamer completed another session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  All crewmembers started out with the periodic before-breakfast session of the Russian biomedical routine assessment PZEh-MO-8/Body Mass Measurement using the IM mass measurement device.  Kotov set up the IM and later stowed it away.  Additionally, the three Russian crewmembers, Kotov, Skvortsov & Kornienko did the PZEh-MO-7/Calf Volume Measurement protocol.     [For determining body mass in zero-G, where things are weightless but not massless, the Russian IM "scales" for MO-8 measure the inertial forces that arise during the oscillatory motion of a mass driven by two helical metering springs with known spring constants.  By measuring the time period of each oscillation of the unknown mass (the crewmember) and comparing it to the period of a known mass, the crewmember’s mass is calculated by the computer and displayed. MO-7 Calf measurements (left leg only) are taken with the IZOG device, a custom-sewn fabric cuff that fits over the calf, using the knee and lower foot as fixed reference pints, to provide a rough index of deconditioning in zero-G and effectiveness of countermeasures. ].  Alexander Skvortsov worked in the Soyuz TMA-18/22S spacecraft, troubleshooting anomalous performance of its VHF (Very High Frequency) radio system.      [The investigation revealed RF (radio frequency) interference from the television system as possible cause.  TsUP/Energia intends to work with other vehicles to understand and work around the issue.]  Afterwards, the FE-1 configured the Russian RS3 A31p laptop from stowage with its 28Vdc power supply & cabling and started charging its battery.   Oleg Kotov meanwhile worked in the SM (Service Module) on the KURS-P system, connecting LF & RF cables to switch it over to support docking operations at the DC1 Docking Compartment instead of at the SM zenith port (where MRM2 is docked).  Caldwell-Dyson transferred the VCA-1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) camcorder from the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) to the Node-2, mounting it on the zenith “ceiling” for monitoring cargo transfer activities in the MPLM/Node-2 area.  At the end of the crew day, Tracy returned the VCA to the COL, installing it on its seat track at the Port Endcone, aft side.  The FE-2 also powered down and relocated the PCS (Portable Computer System) laptop in Node-2, transferring it to COL and turning it on for nominal ops.  Later, Caldwell-Dyson conducted the periodic manual filling of the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) flush water tank (EDV-SV), terminated after a partial fill of ~2 min.    [CWC-I (Collapsible Water Container-Iodine swap was not required.]  Afterwards, Tracy assembled a new WHC EDV-SV from components for use in the WPA WWT (Water Processor Assembly Waste Water Tank) offload activity  As soon as Leonardo was open for ingress, shortly before start of campout, MS2 Dottie ML retrieved the high-priority S0-truss RGA (Rate Gyro Assembly) and MPAC/SEED Cover from the MPLM, handing them off to Rick Mastracchio for configuring both items during his campout stay in the A/L (Airlock) for tonight’s EVA-1.    [MPAC is a micrometeoroid & orbital debris collector; SEED is a materials exposure array.]  Other payload transfer operations from the Shuttle included –  NeuroRad (Biological Effects of Space Radiation & Microgravity on Mammalian Cells) samples, launched on 19A in the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) fridge, were unpacked by Steph and handed off to Timothy for insertion into MELFI-2 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) at +2 degC and later into the JAXA CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) Micro-G IU (Incubator Unit) for processing (incubation);Oleg Kotov, after a brief task review, transferred ascent payload samples from the Shuttle’s GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator) to MELFI;In COL, Soichi Noguchi prepared the WAICO-2 (Waving & Coiling of Arabidopsis at Different Gravity Levels 2) experiment in the BLB (Biolab) for operation by transferring newly arrived seed & bowl ECs (Experiment Containers, eight each) and installing them in the BLB’s TCU1 (Thermal Control Unit 1), then re-installing the ATCS (Active Thermal Control System) insert/insulation.  TJ conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.    [The updated card (23-0003B) lists 96 CWCs (2,362.5 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (20 CWCs with 781.3 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 432.1 L in 12 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 171.6 L in 4 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 1 bag with 23.0 L contains Wautersia, 1 bag with 43.6 L requires sample analysis, 4 bags with 170.8 L are to be used with microbial filter & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (58 CWCs with 1089.1 L),  4. condensate water (7 bags with 101.1 L, including 2 empty ones and 2 CWCs with 43.4 L that are to be used with microbial filter, and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 24.3 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  Oleg performed the periodic functional check of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM for taking structural dynamics data during the MPLM transfers.  Afterwards, Kotov downlinked the measurement data to the ground.     [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]  With Skvortsov & Kornienko attending for handover, Kotov used the BKGA/Gas Analyzer Calibration Assembly and IGZ/Analyzer Status Indicator (constituent meter) to calibrate & adjust test the O2 sensor of the SM SOGS (Pressure Control & Atmospheric Monitoring System) IK0501 gas analyzer (GA).    [IK0501 is an automated system for measuring CO2, O2, and H2O in the air as well as the flow rate of the gas being analyzed.]  CDR Kotov unstowed and set up the equipment for the periodic Russian PZE-MO-10 "Hematokrit" testing which is scheduled tomorrow for him, Kornienko & Skvortsov.   [MO-10 measures the hematocrit (red blood cell mass) value of the blood (it is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell mass {normal range: 30-45%} tends to go down over time).]  The three Russian crewmembers had ~50 min scheduled for more handover activities.  Skvortsov, Kornienko & Caldwell-Dyson again had about an hour’s time to themselves for general adaptation (station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.  Caldwell-Dyson performed routine service on the CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units, replacing the battery of the prime unit (#1042) with a new one (#1175).  The FE-2 also conducted the regular air sampling activity, collecting samples in the center of the SM, Lab, and COL, using GSCs (Grab Sample Containers) #1106, #1107, #1108 and taken a second Lab sample with the new “mini” GSC #2013.  Tracy & Soichi filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  FE-1, FE-2 & FE-3 had their PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Tracy at ~9:51am, Alex & Misha both at ~10:21am.  The crew completed today’s physical workout regime on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE1, FE-3).     [Before her workout on the CEVIS, Tracy formatted/initialized the CEVIS PCMCIA memory cards of herself, Alex & Misha on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) with their CEVIS protocols.  After their runs, Oleg, Alex & Misha inspected the jerry-rigged retainer plate installed by Soichi during his TVIS repair on 4/2.]  In preparation for the subsequent EVA prebreathing by Mastracchio & Anderson before EVA-1 spacewalk campout, TJ Creamer broke out and configured the jumper hose setup to feed O2 (oxygen) from the Shuttle.  At ~8:36am EDT this morning, the Shuttle crew held an in-depth one-hour review of procedures for the EVA-1 spacewalk, with egress scheduled late tonight at ~9:41pm.  At ~11:16am, Mastracchio (EV1) & Anderson (EV2) began their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) in the A/L with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe (~11:16am-12:21pm) and sleep from 12:21pm-8:51pm tonight.  A hygiene break, with temporary repress to 14.7psi and depress back to 10.2psi, is scheduled for 9:25pm-10:36pm.   [Sleep for the ISS crew began at 12:21pm.]  Wake/Sleep schedule on ISS (EDT):       FD WAKE  SLEEP   FD4 8:21pm 12:21pm   FD5 8:51pm 12:51pm   FD6 9:21pm 12:51pm   FD7 9:21pm 1:21pm   FD8 9:51pm 1:51pm   FD9 10:21pm 2:51pm   FD10 11:21pm 3:51pm   FD11 12:21am 3:51pm   FD12 12:21am 3:21pm    No CEO photo targets uplinked for today.  