
Payloads
Astrobee: The crew used the Astrobee Free Flyer to collect additional visual data to create a map of the Japanese Payload Module, and to calibrate Astrobee. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
ESA-EPO Generic Videos: The crew recorded a video which will be used to educate children about the Canadarm-2 robotic arm (and other robotic arms), what it’s used for, how it works and how it’s controlled. The video will feature Paxi, ESA’s mascot for young children. The activities related to European Space Agency-Education Payload Operations Generic Videos are intended to encourage and strengthen the teaching of science curriculum, and stimulate the curiosity of students to motivate them towards further study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects.
GRIP: Crewmembers performed the third part of GRIP science tasks (3 out of 3) in the supine position. The GRIP experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
KOBAIRO Rack: The crew installed the Gradient Heating Furnace (GHF) Water-Filling Device into the Kobairo Rack and refilled cooling water to the Water Pump Package (WPP). The KOBAIRO Rack houses the Gradient Heating Furnace (GHF), an experiment facility for investigating crystal growth of semiconductors. This furnace has the capability of directional solidification of samples.
Real-Time Protein Crystal Growth-2 (RTPCG-2): The crew performed Real-time Protein Crystal Growth Screening Plate Loading for 1B1 samples. Phase II Real-time Protein Crystal Growth on Board the International Space Station (RTPCG-2) demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity produces high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 produces high-quality protein crystals for up to eight proteins for detailed analysis back on Earth.
The ISS Experience: The crew positioned the EVA Z-Camera for a post-EVA Checkout and removed the ISS Experience EVA Z-Camera Cover in order to photograph the condition of the lenses. The International Space Station Experience (The ISS Experience) is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station. Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.
Window Observational Research Facility (WORF): The crew installed the WORF Bump Shield and labeled the Vacuum Flex Hose inside the WORF payload volume. Photos of bumpshield configuration were taken of the installation and the label of the flex hose and made the photos available for downlink. WORF provides a facility for Earth science remote sensing instruments using the Destiny science window in the U.S. Laboratory. The Destiny window has the highest quality optics ever flown on a human-occupied spacecraft.
Manufacturing Device (MAND): The crew performed an exchange of the Feedstock Canister, Extruder And Print Tray Exchange. The Manufacturing Device enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the MAND printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. MAND is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Battery Operations Terminal (EBOT) Modification: On February 10, during installation of the new EBOT, the crew discovered that the Battery Stowage Compartment (BSC) could not be fully installed due to interference with an Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) water line within the Airlock Avionics Rack. Following ground evaluation, the crew successfully performed modification of the BSC to remove the interfering section of the BSC. The BSC will be installed into the Airlock Avionics Rack early next week, along with the completion of the cable route to complete the EBOT installation.
Dragon On-Board Training (OBT):  The Crew-1 crew completed a training session with ground team support in preparation for next Monday’s scheduled Crew-1 port relocation from Node 2 forward to Node 2 zenith. The relocation is in preparation for Crew-2 arrival currently scheduled on April 23.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Payloads ops support
EBOT mod support
Dragon OBT

