
Autonomous Medical Officer Support (AMOS): The crewmembers performed autonomous ultrasound imaging using only the AMOS software instead of remote (ground team) guidance as is typical of these scans. They were able to successfully use the ultrasound instrument to image the urinary bladder and left/right kidney areas and no issues were reported.  As missions venture farther from Earth, astronauts need the capability to diagnose and treat acute medical conditions without ground support. The AMOS Demonstration tests a software tool designed to help minimally trained or untrained users conduct complicated medical procedures, without assistance from Earth. For the study, the crew uses AMOS to perform ultrasound imaging of the bladder and kidneys, a plausible Mars mission medical scenario.
Food Acceptability:  As a continuation of the ongoing Food acceptability experiment, the crew used the data collection tool on one of the SSCs (Station Support Computer) to complete the investigation survey.  This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
Veggie Passive Orbital Nutrient Delivery System (PONDS): The crew inspected the PONDS plant growth units for seed germination and noted what may be the start of plant growth in at least 2 of the 12 modules.  Seed germination was expected before this time, and the ground team is looking into possible causes of the delay.  Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food. Therefore, understanding how plants respond to microgravity and demonstrating the reliable vegetable production on orbit are important steps toward that goal. Veggie PONDS uses a newly developed passive nutrient delivery system and the Veggie plant growth facility aboard the ISS to cultivate lettuce and mizuna greens which are to be harvested on-orbit, and consumed, with samples returned to Earth for analysis. 
Systems
62 Soyuz Launch/Dock: 62S launched on Thursday, April 9, from Baikonur Cosmodrome at 3:05 AM CT carrying Anatoly Ivanishin, Ivan Vagner, and Chris Cassidy to the ISS. Docking to the MRM2 port occurred at 9:13 AM CT with hatch opening at 11:29 AM CT. Following hatch opening, all 6 crewmembers performed the ISS Crew Safety Briefing during which the 61S crew familiarized the 62S crew with potential hazards and available safety measures. Plans were reviewed for emergency actions, roles and responsibilities in response to depressurization, fire and toxic release hazards.
Acoustic Monitor Noise Survey: The crew used an acoustic monitor to measure the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS by taking sound level readings. Measurements were taken in JLP, Node2, US Lab, Cupola and Service Module. This is a regularly scheduled activity to maintain acceptable noise levels which contributes to overall crew health.
Completed Task List Activities:

Countermeasures Systems (CMS) Exercise Equipment Gather

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


62S docking ops
Payloads ground support

