
ISS Reboost: Today the ISS performed a reboost using the SM Aft 75P R&D thrusters at 7:14 AM CT. This is the second of two planned reboosts to set up phasing for the 64S two-orbit rendezvous on April 9th and 63S landing on April 17th. The burn duration was 2 minutes and 9 seconds with a Delta-V of 0.21 m/s.
Payloads
Solid Combustion Assembly (FLARE): The crew performed the Solid Combustion Experiment Insert 2. FLARE is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) investigation that explores the flammability of materials in microgravity. Various solid fuels are burned under different conditions and observed inside a flow tunnel. Microgravity significantly affects combustion phenomena and results are expected to contribute to the improvement of fire safety in space.
GRASP: Crewmembers performed GRASP science protocol sessions in the seated configuration. The purpose of the Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance: Reaching and Grasping (GRASP) investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
Mochii: A crewmember removed and inspected the Mochii hardware as part of troubleshooting efforts. Mochii is a miniature Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) with spectroscopy to conduct real-time, on-site imaging and compositional measurements of particles on the ISS. Such particles can cause vehicle and equipment malfunctions and threaten crew health, but currently, samples must be returned to Earth for analysis, leaving crew and vehicle at risk. Mochii also provides a powerful new analysis platform to support novel microgravity science and engineering.
Veggie Monitoring: The crew captured Veggie Monitoring Surface Sample Collection Historical Documentation Photography. Culture-based Environmental Monitoring of Crop-based Space Food Systems (Veggie Monitoring) collects microbial samples from the surface of the station’s Veggie plant production system in conjunction with quarterly Environmental Health System (EHS) sample collection. Longer exploration missions require space-based systems for growth of plants, and this investigation is expected to help establish requirements to protect these systems, plants, and crew from contamination.
Systems
Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack-1 Air Avionics Assembly (AAA): In order to access the AAA, the crew rotated down the EXPRESS-1 Rack. The crew then used both the AC dry vacuum and the wet/dry vacuum to clean the AAA inlet screens/sound control block and inlet manifold. After completing the cleaning, the crew rotated the EXPRESS-1 Rack back to the nominal position.
Dragon Relocation Crew Conference: The Crew-1 crew and ground teams completed a conference in preparation for Crew-1 Dragon port relocation from Node 2 forward to Node 2 zenith. The relocation is in preparation for Crew-2 arrival currently scheduled for April 23.
Completed Task List Activities:

Recorded Greeting Request – Down to Earth

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Payloads ops support
Crew-1 conference
BPA Activation

