04-01-2011April 01, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 04/01/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Upon wake-up, CDR Kondratyev performed the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 (oxygen) generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dmitri will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.] In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-6 Coleman serviced the running NANOSKELETON-2 experiment #1, detaching MEU A *Measurement Experiment Unit A (2) from CBEF IU (Cell Biology Experiment Facility Incubation Unit) for Micro-G after incubation of the experiment #1, then retrieving NANOSKELETON-2 Kit (2) from Bag Cartridge A (2) and MEU A (2). Kondratyev conducted a periodic inventory/audit of all medical kits in the RS (Russian Segment).The CDR then began a new round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, working several hours with the vacuum cleaner, cleaning –Interior closeout panel vent screens (panels 201, 301, 401) in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok),PF1 & PF2 dust filters, V1 & V2 vent grids and the VD1 & VD2 air ducts in the DC1 Docking Compartment Pirs, andPF1 & PF2 dust filters, V1 & V2 vent grids and the VD1 & VD2 air ducts in the MRM2 Mini-research Module 2 Poisk.  For use during the upcoming STS-134/ULF6 spacewalks, FE-5 Nespoli checked out two SAFER (Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue) units, #1003, #1007. Afterwards, Nespoli serviced the running BXF (Boiling eXperiment Facility) experiment in the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) by removing & stowing the tapes from both analog recorders & both digital recorders, labeling & installing new tapes, and resetting the tape counters.  The MSG was then switched to Standby and its A31p laptop powered down.      [For the MABE (Microheater Array Boiling Experiment) part of the payload, Paolo verified that the Hi-8 recorders are in Short Play Mode.] Paolo & Cady also had several more hours set aside for tool gathering and preparation for the 4 ULF6 EVAs, guided by an uplinked listing of 120 individual items. A particular time slot of 2 hrs was reserved for Nespoli to retrieve, assemble & stage 4 EVA Grease Guns for ULF6.    [FE-5 worked on 2 Straight-Nozzle Grease Guns and 2 J-Hook Nozzle Grease Guns, assembling them for use during the spacewalks.] FE-6 Coleman performed another weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.     [The current card (27-0041A) lists 132 CWCs (2,519.5 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (16 CWCs with 546.7 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 241.7 L in 6 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 170.8 L in 4 bags for transfer into EDV-RP containers via US/RSA-B hose, and 3 empty bags;  2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (104 CWCs with 1,868.9 L for reserve, of which 642.2 L in 35 CWCs are listed as “expired”;  4. condensate water (76.6 L in 10 bags incl. 7.1 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 5 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (27.3 L in 2 CWCs from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] Working in the Lab on ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6, loc. O4), Coleman set up its RIC (Rack Interface Controller) for a new software load and performing the loading.       [Steps included first swapping the ER6 PCMCIA (Portable Computer Memory Card International Adapter) harness/card assembly & the RS-232 data cable with ER1, verifying that RS-232 communicated properly with the RIC and then starting the RIC boot auto load process, followed later by the RIC binary auto loader software load sequence after confirmation of boot-up, and still later confirming to POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) that the RIC software load was successfully completed.] Also in the Lab, FE-6 continued preparing the MELFI-1 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 1) by inserting 4 ice bricks (-32 degC) in Dewar 1 Tray B/Sections 1 & 2 for Stage ULF5 preservative storage needs. CDR Kondratyev took care of the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers], Later, Dmitri ran a test of the NViewer (NASA Viewer) application software on the SSC-1 (Station Support Computer 1) A31p laptop in the FGB.     [The setup is normally used for MPEG2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) monitor-viewing of approach, docking & departure events, along with the Russian Simvol-Ts LIV television system (converter & monitor) for both the conversion and the “streaming” MPEG2 encoding, run from the RS (Russian Segment).] At ~3:45am EDT, the three crewmembers held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow. At ~8:50am, Dmitri linked up with TsUP/Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory & stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers. At ~3:00pm, Cady, Paolo & Dima had their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-Houston. The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (CDR), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.] Conjunction Avoidance:     Due to repeating conjunctions with Object 34443 (debris from the collision of the COSMOS 2251 & Iridium 33 satellites on 2/10/99), a DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) will be conducted tonight, with an ignition time of 10:36pm EDT and a delta-V of 0.5 m/s.  The DAM will utilize the ATV2 OCS (Automated Transfer Vehicle 2 Orbit Correction System) engines for the reboost.  SM thrusters will perform attitude control for Yaw & Pitch; Progress 41P will perform roll control.  In order to minimize orbit perturbations before the DAM, the Russian Solar Array Efficiency Test was cancelled from today’s plan. CEVIS Troubleshooting:    The crew performed additional CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation) audio/video collection today, with the goal to identify which CEVIS ORU (On-orbit Replacement Unit) is the source of noise. Ground engineering review of the data is in work. 