
Rodent Research (RR) preparations: In advance of the delivery of RR-2 science on SpaceX-6 (SpX-6), Virts configured the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Life Science Ancillary Hardware (LSAH).  He installed life science filters, covers, and the tools, supplies and equipment needed for sample collections.  The LSAH installation activity took longer than expected and the last hour of the activity (restow) will be completed tomorrow.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT) Intervalometer Change: Cristoforetti changed out the Canon D2Xs Battery, transfers images, sets the intervalometer, and verified the checks the camera alignment and focus.  BCAT ground teams verified downlinked images and confirmed that the focus and alignment were improved from previous images, and a few more fine focus changes may be requested.  BCAT provides a platform for material and industrial scientists to investigate colloid phase changes, providing results that may be used to develop new colloidal materials and formulations with unique properties. The results may support new applications, from new liquid crystals to consumer goods having longer shelf life and uses.
Defining the Relation Between Biomarkers of Oxidative and Inflammatory Stress and Atherosclerosis Risk in Astronauts During and After Long-duration Spaceflight (Cardio Ox): Kelly, with Cristoforetti as the CMO and remote guidance from the ground, performed ultrasound scans for Cardio Ox followed by blood pressure measurements and logging results. The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Crew members provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, three sessions while in space, and again post-flight. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries will be obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) Setup: Kelly configured the PPFS for his Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) session tomorrow.  He also reconfigured the hoses in the Differential Pressure Flowmeter (DPFM).  Following the Airway Monitoring activities in Increment 42, it was discovered that several hoses were misaligned and this activity will properly align the hoses behind the DPFM screen. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of investigator’s long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
Ocular Health: Virts and Cristoforetti continued their Return-30 day (R-30) Ocular Health activities with Kelly as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO) today.  Virts set up the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) hardware and software to perform eye exams using the OCT Laptop. The Fundoscope and OCT laptop were used for a retinal imaging examination on both Virts and Cristoforetti with remote guidance from ground specialists.  OCT is an imaging test that uses light waves to take cross-section pictures of the retina. The fundoscope is utilized to image the fundus (interior surface of the eye including the retina, optic disc, macula, and fovea). Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


USND2 – Hardware activation
WRM Condensate Pumping Initiation
CARDOX – Preparation Steps and Hardware Setup
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Recycle Tank Fill
Replacing РТ-50-1М No.7 (А207) device with the new unit No.П3001008
VIBROLAB. R/G Review and SINUS-ACCORD P/L Activation, Mode 1 Activation.
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
Collecting SM and FGB Air Samples Using АК-1М Sampler
CARDOX – Scanning
24-hour BP Monitoring (end)
Demating РТ-50-1М TLM Connectors from БКС
SM air sampling for FREON in SM and FGB using АК-1М sampler
Replacement of РТ-50-1М No.7 (А207).
VIBROLAB. Switching to Mode 2.
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
VIBROLAB. P/L Off/On and Mode2 Activation.
MSG – Glovebox Powerup
VIBROLAB. SINUS-ACCORD P/L Deactivation. Copying Data.
JRNL – Journal Entry
СОЖ Maintenance
CARDOX – Blood Pressure Operations
Mating РТ-50-1М TLM Connectors to БКС
Hardware Setup for Rodent Research Operations
Replacement of РТ-50-1М No.7 – Closeout Ops.
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
24-hour BP Monitoring (start)
VIBROLAB. Telemetry Manual Mode Downlink Test.
ESA Weekly Crew Conference
USND2 – Hardware Deactivation
Hardware Setup for Rodent Research Operations
Node1 Stowage
Hose Replacement in СРВ-К2М.
ALGOMETRIA. Experiment Ops
ISS RS Audit of Available Stowage Space on FGB
SPRINT – First Time Setup of Sprint Portable Pulmonary Function System
Audit of available ISS RS stowage space in DC1, MRM1, and MRM2
MSG – Powerdown
HRF – Hardware Setup
Fundoscope Setup
Replacement of PFS screen and properly aligning hoses
Fundoscope Prep
TWIN – Urine Sample Collection
VIZIR. Experiment Ops.
Fundoscope – Eye Exam
IMS Delta File Prep
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
Fundoscope – Closeout Ops and Stowage
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Setup
OCT Exam
OCT Equipment Stowage
VIRU. Battery Charge (start)

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


S-Band String Swap
Battery 2B2 Capacity Test 

