04-09-2010April 09, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 04/09/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  FD5 (Flight Day 5) of STS-131/19A. Crew sleep shifting in effect – see below.      >>>Today 51 years ago (1959), NASA announced the first Astronaut Group – the Mercury Seven:  Alan B. Shepard Jr., Virgil I. (Gus) Grissom, John H. Glenn Jr., Malcolm S. Carpenter, Walter M. (Wally) Schirra Jr., Leroy G. (Gordy) Cooper Jr. & Donald K. (Deke) Slayton; they went on to perform 13 space flights between them.<<<  Mission 19A’s EVA-1 was completed successfully by EV1 Rick Mastracchio & EV2 Clayton Anderson in 6h 27m, accomplishing all objectives plus a few get-aheads.  Beginning this morning at 1:31am EDT, the spacewalk ended at 7:58am.    [EV1 & EV2 began their “campout” yesterday evening in the U.S. Airlock (A/L) with hatch closure and depressurization of the Crewlock (CL) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe.  Following the usual hygiene break/with mask prebreathe for Mastracchio & Anderson around midnight, the A/L hatch was closed again by TJ Creamer & Tracy Caldwell-Dyson for EVA preps in 10.2 psi, followed by EMU purge (~12:06am) and prebreathe in the EMUs (12:21am-1:11am).  Afterwards, with CL depressurization and EV1/EV2 switching to suit power, EVA-1 began at 1:31am.  The excursion lasted 6h 27m.]  During EVA-1, Mastracchio & Anderson –  Relocated the new ATA (Ammonia Tank Assembly) from the Shuttle PLB (Payload Bay) to the temporary POA (Payload OR&U Accommodation),Released the fluid QDs (quick disconnects) of the old ATA on the S1 truss,Retrieved the Japanese MPAC (Micro-Particles Capture) & SEED (Space Environment Exposure Device) hardware for return (later stowed by Noguchi in the MPLM),Replaced the RGA-1 (Rate Gyro Assembly 1) on the S0 truss (successfully activated later by ground-commanding),Opened the Node-2  Zenith CBCS (Centerline Berthing Camera System) flap (get-ahead),Relocated a WIF (Worksite Interface Fixture) extender,Removed P1 FHRC (Flex Hose Rotary Coupler) launch restraint bolts & released all twelve P-clamps, andTorqued attachment bolts of the S1 ATA nadir fixed grapple bar.  [The last three tasks were inserted in place of the originally scheduled P6 Battery Preparation activity (a ULF4 get-ahead) due to concerns about possible plasma shock hazard at that location, outboard of the SARJ/Solar Alpha Rotary Joint, from solar array-driven plasma charging of the ISS (depending on space weather), until more data have been collected with the FMPU (Floating Potential Measurement Unit) to evaluate ISS vehicle charging with this system.]  Before the EVA, CDR Kotov verified closure of the external protective shutters of the Lab, Kibo and Cupola windows.  FE-5 Noguchi set up the RWS (Robotic Workstation) and DOUG (Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) peripherals with the IPV (International Procedures Viewer) laptop to support SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) ops.   During the spacewalk, the Canadarm-2 SSRMS, operated by PLT Jim Dutton & MS3 Steph Wilson, grappled the new ATA in the Shuttle PLB, removed it from the LMC (Lightweight Multipurpose Experiment Support Structure Carrier), stowed it in the POA and released it to “walk off” to the MBS PDGF1 (Mobile Base System / Power & Data Grapple Fixture 1).  At wake-up (8:51 pm last night), FE-1 Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspected the filters before bedtime this morning, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Before breakfast & exercise, CDR Kotov, FE-1 Skvortsov & FE-3 Kornienko each completed a 10-min session with the periodic Russian MedOps test "Hematokrit" (MO-10), which measures the red cell count of the blood, with one of them acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer, Russian: “Examiner”).  It was the first session for Alex & Mikhail, the second for Oleg.     [The blood samples were drawn from a finger with a perforator lancet, then centrifuged in two microcapillary tubes in the M-1100 kit's minicentrifuge, and its hematocrit value was read off the tubes with a magnifying glass.  It is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell count (normal range: 30-45%) tends to go down over time.  After the exam, the data were saved in the IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).]  FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson & FE-6 Creamer supported the spacewalkers on their pre-EVA activities, including campout, hygiene break, EMU assistance, hatch closure & leak check.  After CL depress, Tracy returned the PBA (Portable Breathing Apparatus) to its nominal place in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).    During the EVA-1, CDR Poindexter & MS2 Metcalf-Lindenburger (ML) acted as IV (Intravehicular) support crewmembers, with Dex in charge of photo/video activities.  Post-ingress activities by Anderson, Mastracchio, Creamer & Caldwell-Dyson included the usual post-EVA tasks like photographing EMU gloves for inspection, recharging EMUs with water, downloading & downlinking D2XS EVA & glove photographs, recharging REBA batteries, etc.     [While all available crewmembers were assigned to unloading the MPLM, Tracy was scheduled for these activities to provide her with some ISS expertise and good functional handover.]  Besides EVA-1, the crew’s day was dominated by MPLM Leonardo cargo transfers:  FE-5 Noguchi transferred the VCA-1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) camcorder from the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) to the Node-2, mounting it on the zenith “ceiling” for monitoring cargo transfer activities in the MPLM/Node-2 area.    [It was returned to the COL at the end of the crew day by FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson and installed on its seat track at the Port Endcone, aft side.]Noguchi & MS4 Naoko Yamazaki completed the transfer of the first four scheduled racks,- viz., MELFI-3 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS #3) to the JPM, CQ2 (Crew Quarters 2) to Node-2, MARES (Muscle Atrophy Resistive Exercise System) to COL & one ZSR (Zero-G Stowage Rack) to JLP (JEM Pressurized Logistics Segment).    [The transfers required some rack-front stowage to be relocated within Leonardo, including transferring a large bag with the BMRRM (Bearing Motor Roll Ring Module) spare to ISS.]Originally planned for tomorrow, Soichi & Naoko also transferred the 2nd ZSR to the Lab, Bay P4. In preparation for the installation of the CQ2 rack in Node-2/Overhead, Noguchi removed, later re-installed the Node-2 port “bumpout” structure at Rack Bay O5.After the rack transfers, Yamazaki also configured the WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) in the MPLM, preparing it for its transfer scheduled tomorrow.    [WORF transfer to the Lab is timelined for FD6 to avoid any spatial conflicts within the Lab during today’s SSRMS operations in support of EVA-1.]  For today’s scheduled APXC (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit-Cambium) work, Timothy relocated the payload MWA (Maintenance Work Area) in the JPM to be out of the way for the rack transfers, then performed replant #2 on the APXC TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System) payload, inserting “2A Petri plates in chamber 1.  FE-3 Kornienko had 2h50m for undertaking his first onboard session with the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment after setting up the workplace and equipment, with Kotov acting as operator and photographer.  Later, the Pilot-M & Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled & stowed away, and Misha reported to TsUP-Moscow on his run.    [MBI-15 requires the Multipurpose Hardware Bench as a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO & RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) with software (v. 2.0) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.]  After unstowing Russian RS3 A31p laptop yesterday, FE-1 Skvortsov configured it today with its 28Vdc power supply & cabling and set it up for charging its battery.     [When fully charged, the RS3 was powered up to verify correct charge indication on the task bar.]  Completing yesterday’s WHC WWT (Waste & Hygiene Compartment / Waste Water Tank) activity, Creamer assembled a new EDV-SV container from can & lid components for use in the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) WWT offload operation.    [The new EDV-SV has the ID #962.]   Oleg performed the periodic tightening of the rigidizing QD (quick disconnect) screw clamps (BZV) of the docking & internal transfer mechanism (SSVP) on the interface between Progress M-04M/36P and the SM aft port docking ring.  Afterwards, Kotov collected & downloaded the periodic sensor readings of the Russian “Pille-MKS” (MKS = ISS) radiation dosimetry experiment which has 12 sensors placed at various locations in the RS (DC1, SM starboard & port cabin windows, ASU toilet facility, control panel, MRM2, etc.), with one, the “duty” dosimeter, in the Reader.  Today’s readings were taken from all 11 deployed dosimeters, and dose data were logged and called down to TsUP-Moscow.    [The dosimeters take their readings automatically every 90 minutes.]  Later, the CDR completed a periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]  Oleg also performed the periodic functional check of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM for taking structural dynamics data during the MPLM transfers.  Afterwards, Kotov downlinked the measurement data to the ground.     [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]  Alex Skvortsov did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Oleg Kotov took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  The three Russian station residents, Skvortsov, Kornienko & Kotov, joined up for another handover period of ~2 hrs in the RS (Russian Segment).  Alexander, Mikhail & Tracy again had about an hour’s time to themselves for general adaptation (station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.  At ~11:56pm EDT, Kotov, Skvortsov & Kornienko used an RGS (Russian Groundsite) pass to downlink PAO TV greetings to a traditional space conference by students at N.N. Burdenko Voronezh State Medical Academy dedicated to Cosmonautics Day (April 12).    [“…Space biology and space medicine play an important role in space exploration with the aim, first of all, to protect crew health.  That’s why we are very pleased that your interest in cosmonautics, space biology and space medicine in particular, does not wane and only grows.  Be persistent in your quest, the sky is the limit!  Knowledge, like the Universe, has no boundaries!  The learning process is the reason we are here…”]  At ~1:31am, Kotov & Skvortsov conducted a radio PAO exchange (audio) with participants of the 19th Youth Festival in Ulyanovsk, dedicated to the International Day of Aviation & Cosmonautics.     [This is a popular event for the Volga Region and a cardinal event in the field of aerospace education.  Since 1992 it has become a good tradition to conduct radio conferences between Mir or ISS stations and young residents of Volga regions.]  The FE-1 had an hour set aside for more newsreel shooting using the using the SONY HVR-Z7 #2 high-definition camcorder as part of the ongoing effort to create a photo & video imagery database on the flight of ISS-23/24 (“Flight Chronicles”).     [Footage subjects to be focused on include life on the station, personal hygiene, food intake, playing with water, enjoying weightlessness, exercise, moving about, station interior, Earth surface, space clothing, cosmonaut at work, station cleaning, etc.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]  The crew completed today’s physical workout regime on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE1, FE-3).     [After their TVIS runs, Oleg, Alex & Misha inspected the jerry-rigged retainer plate installed by Soichi during his TVIS repair on 4/2.]  Transfers:   8 CWC-Is (Collapsible Water Containers-Iodine) have been filled and transferred.  Cargo transfer is on schedule at 18% overall complete, with 68% complete in the Middeck, and 5% in the MPLM.  Mission Extension:   The decision has been made to extend the docked mission by one day, leading to undocking on FD13 (4/17).  The reason for the extension is that due to the failed Shuttle Ku-band, the Orbiter TPS inspection will be done as a DLI (Docked Late Inspection), inserted on FD11, so that the ISS Ku-band assets can be used to downlink the imagery.    [Points of discussion included such considerations as downlink rates of the imagery, time for ground assessment of the imagery, additional downlink requirements after a TPS repair (if required), clearances between OBSS (Orbiter Boom Sensor System) and ISS during the DLI, Orbiter re-dock capability after separation from ISS, etc.]  Wake/Sleep schedule on ISS (EDT):       FD WAKE  SLEEP   FD5 8:51pm 12:51pm   FD6 9:21pm 12:51pm   FD7 9:21pm 1:21pm   FD8 9:51pm 1:51pm   FD9 10:21pm 2:51pm   FD10 11:21pm 3:51pm   FD11 12:21am 3:51pm   FD12 12:21am 3:51pm   FD13 12:21am 3:21pm    No CEO photo targets uplinked for today.  