04-09-2011April 09, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 04/09/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew rest day. Upon wake-up (2:00am EDT), FE-2 Borisenko performed the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 (oxygen) generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Andrey will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.] FE-3 Garan, FE-5 Nespoli & FE-6 Coleman completed a post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.  It was the 22nd for Paolo & Cady, the first for Ron.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.] CDR Kondratyev terminated the maintenance discharge on 825M3 Orlan battery pack #1262431133 and removed it from the charge/discharge device. In the newly arrived Soyuz TMA-21/26S, FE-1 Samokutyayev worked in the Orbital Module (BO), installing and connecting the electronic LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251M1B) of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and its TA765B/PZU-1M ROM (read-only memory) unit from SM (Service Module) stowage, recycled from an earlier vehicle. Dmitri Kondratyev conducted the periodic (~monthly) maintenance on the temporarily deactivated Russian IK0501 GA (Gas Analyzer) of the SOGS Pressure Control & Atmospheric Monitoring System behind SM panel 449 by replacing its CO2 filter assembly (BF) with a new unit from FGB stowage (done last: 2/28).  The old unit was discarded and the IMS (Inventory Management System) updated.     [IK0501 is an automated system for measuring CO2, O2, and H2O in the air, as well as the flow rate of the gas being analyzed.] As generally on Saturdays, the crewmembers joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).       ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.] As part of the uborka house cleaning, CDR, FE-1 & FE-2 completed regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM and the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode. FE-6 Coleman continued pumping urine from an EDV-U container into the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) as required, initiated yesterday.     [For now, the WRS (Water Recovery System) EDV-U remains connected to the WSTA (Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly) via EDV transfer hose and the Russian compressor, powered from the Ku-band power source.  The WSTA should be filled to 70%, with an additional pumping opportunity scheduled tomorrow, if required, in order to allow the planned RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) replacement on Monday.] Andrey Borisenko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Working on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), Ron Garan transferred the contents of his designated folder to his CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation) PCMCIA memory card which includes his automated CEVIS protocol.  After yesterday’s obligatory CMS (Countermeasures Systems) exercise overview, to get cleared for CMS Ron today received the hands-on training on the use of the exercise apparatus by observing experienced crewmembers – Paolo Nespoli on ARED & Cady Coleman on CEVIS. Before sleeptime (5:30pm EDT), Paolo will unstow and prepare the equipment for his 4th suite of sessions with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.  Paolo will begin the urine sampling for pH value tomorrow, for a 5-day period. FE-1 & FE-2 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Sasha at ~6:00am, Andrey at ~10:30am EDT. At ~1:20pm, Ron Garan had his 2nd post-launch PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- & Ku-band audio/video. At ~5:15am EDT, the three Russian crewmembers conducted a Russian PAO TV interview by Vadim Takmenyov for Central TV and NTV which are working on a big show dedicated to the 50th anniversary of the first human flight to space, to be aired on April 10. At ~8:45am, Ron, Paolo, Cady, Dima, Andrey & Sasha supported a Russian PAO TV event, downlinking messages of greetings to the participants of the London International Book Fair, answering questions from the viewers of BBC TV Channel.      [On April 11-15, Russia’s Federal Agency for Mass Communications & Printing along with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hosting in London a show -“Russia is a Guest of Honor at London Book Fair”.  Leading public organizations in the area of literature and publishing, Russian writers, painters, translators, publishers, media managers will be participating in this show.  The organizers of the show agreed with the BBC TV channel that on 4/12, when the whole world is celebrating the 50th anniversary of the first human flight to space, TV channel viewers will be asking ISS crew some questions.   “….Hello from the cosmonauts and astronauts aboard the International Space Station to everyone at The London Book Fair.  We hope you’re having fun celebrating Russian literature at the London Book Fair…..”] At ~10:10am, the six crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events. At ~11:05am, in a Russian PAO TV event the station crew downlinked answers to questions from residents of the city of Izhevsk, capital of the Russian Republic of Udmurtia – and the city which erected a monument to a dog.      [In a letter to the crew, Izhvesk residents wrote: “Dear space residents of Planet Earth, on behalf of Izhevsk city residents we would like to wish you happy 50th anniversary of the first human flight of Yuri Alexeyevich Gagarin to space.  Our city completed preparation for his flight:  Here on March 25, 1961, we were welcoming the return of the last test satellite-craft, on which the dog Zvezdochka (“Sprocket”) flew to space.  Five years ago we built a monument dedicated to the 45th anniversary of space flights, where we listed the names of designers, test engineers, medical personnel, those who built the road to space.  For this reason we are celebrating Cosmonautics Day two weeks earlier than everybody else.  To commemorate the 10th anniversary of Y. A. Gagarin’s flight we opened Cosmonauts Park in Izhevsk.  Your answers will be heard by Izhevsk residents at the meeting near the monument to Zvezdochka and during folk festival in Cosmonauts Park.] At ~12:10pm, Dmitri Kondratyev, Ron Garan, Alexandr Samokutyayev, Katherine Coleman, Andrey Borisenko & Paolo Nespoli downlinked PAO TV greetings to 3 major Russian events, with portraits of K.E. Tsiolkovsky, S.P., Korolev and Yuri Gagarin in the background: To the participants of the gala meeting on April 12 in Moscow’s Kremlin Palace, dedicated to commemorate Space Day and the 50th anniversary of Yury Gagarin’s mission, […“50 years ago, on April 12th, 1961 the whole world became the witness of the first flight of a man to the space – the mission of Yury Alexeevitch Gagarin.  The name of Gagarin is nowadays a symbol of mankind’s striving to master the spatial and resource immensity of the space. More than forty countries have implemented the practice of manned flight to the space.  Today the International Space Station has become the symbol of international cooperation in space and a symbol of the 21st century.  We are proud to realize that the backbone of this enormous space project was created on the basis of Russian and American experience in manned space missions.  Today is a very special day for us.  It is great honor and responsibility to be at space watch on the Commemorative Space day .  May we express our gratitude and appreciation to those who were the originators of the space mission’s foundation, those who made Yury Alexeevich Gagarin’s space mission possible, to all space pathfinders.  May we cast our warm greetings to the creators of the rocket and space technology, to the representatives of the Russian industry specific and academic science, specialists of Russian rocket and space industry, all Russian cosmonauts and also astronauts of other countries with Commemorative Space day!  May you stay forever healthy, prosperous and blessed!”], To the participants of the meeting and guests of the city of Korolev on April 11 at the firm of Kalinin TsDK in Korolev city    […”Dear people of Korolev!  Dear participants of the solemn meeting and guests of Korolev city!  Tomorrow is the 12th of April.  For us this is a very remarkable and happy date – the 50th anniversary of Gagarin’s flight.  We celebrate this day in the year announced as the International Cosmonautics Year.  The breakthrough of humanity into space, its exploration is the duty for many years carried out by Korolev– the city that became famous worldwide by outstanding achievements in the area of creation of spacecraft and which deserves to be the capital of the national cosmonautics.  Implementation of the challenging dream on space exploration required efforts of the best scientists and specialists of the country.  A series of brilliant intellects then gathered in Kaliningrad under the leadership of Sergey Pavlovich Korolev: Tikhonravov, Isaev, Glushko, Mishin, Raushenbakh, Moszhorin and others.  These days, remarkable traditions established by them are continued by the young generation of people of Korolev.  Your efforts inspire respect and appreciation.  We all very well know that everything that was built at the factories of Korolev city – is of reference quality and therefore we are always confident in high reliability of your products.  For us as cosmonauts this is the guarantee of successful work in space and safe return to Earth.  Today, we and you feel the pride in our country, which was the first to orbit a man.  Congratulations on the Cosmonautics Day, dear friends!  Let your work continue to be as bright, inspired and fruitful as it is these days!  We wish peace and prosperity to all residents of the honored scientific city of Korolev!”], To the employees of RSC Energia and participants of the celebratory meeting dedicated to Cosmonautics Day.   […”Dear friends, congratulations on the remarkable holiday – the 50th anniversary of the first manned space flight!  April 12, 1961 with the stewardship of Sergei Pavlovich Korolev, whose honored name is proudly born by the Rocket Space Corporation “Energia”, marked the beginning of the era of manned space flights, which instigated development of the entire space industry.  The Rocket Space Corporation “Energia” is the leading organization for creation of spacecraft. All achievements of the cosmonautics – the first man-made earth satellite, the first manned space flight as well as all recent milestones including the International Space Station – is the outcome of conscientious and talented work of the team of scientists, designers, mathematicians, technologists, technicians and workers, who apart from their ability to create reliable space vehicles can look into the future making significant scientific discoveries and finding brilliant solutions to complex issues being vital for the cosmonautics.  We wish the staff of the corporation, our dignified veterans, long creative life; the youth replacing them –understanding of the honor to be part of this team; we wish you continuation and holding up the best traditions of the corporation, and the entire national cosmonautics – prosperity and success in exploration of space and introduction of new technologies.  Congratulations on the 50th anniversary of the space flight of Yury Alexeevich Gagarin!  And now let us sing our favorite song written by composer Alexandra Nikolayevna Pakhmutova and poet Nikolay Nikolayevich Dobronravov “Nadezhda” (Hope).  We will sing in space and you – on Earth!”] The “old” crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill (CDR), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.] Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Seven -- Week 3) 2D NANO Template (JAXA):    No report. 3D SPACE:    “Dear Cady and Paolo, thanks for executing your 4th and last session.  The data arrived at the science team.  It still needs to be confirmed (a valid BDC is still needed), but if so your session will have completed the 3D-SPACE investigation.  Congratulations and we are grateful you participated to this experiment.” AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report. ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete. ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     No report. AMS-02 (Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer):     On, 4/6 AMS Laptop software load was successfully performed .  Issues with 2nd hard drive initialization, being worked on the ground for now.  Commanding to the Laptop A-OK.   Issues with downlink traced to MSFC-AMS interface, resolution next week.  File uplink and downlink A-OK. APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report. APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report. Asian Seed 2010 (JAXA):    Photo session is on the task list. BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):      No report. BIOLAB (ESA):    Return of BIOLAB Handling Mechanism (HM) Gripper on 24S, pending confirmation of good reception. BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):     No report. BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report. BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report. BXF-Facility (Boiling eXperiment Facility, NASA):    Per the plan, the BXF was powered up on 4/4 and powered down on 4/6.  Two sets of tape exchanges were performed.  Prior to start of experimentation, the dissolved gas concentration was measured at 261 ppm on 4/4.  BXF-MABE (Microheater Array Boiling Experiment, NASA):    “We realize that since this experiment is mostly ground commanded and that you do not have much insight into the experiment test points; you may not be familiar with ongoing issues and their resolutions.  While we are getting excellent data and detecting the trends we expected, as well as some we didn't, we are also working some issues.  The MABE backside cooling issue has been mostly resolved.  The approach included decreasing the set-points for the time, and temperature, of nucleation, and increasing the MSG thermal loop-flow rate, through the MSG cold plate.  The data transfer between the high-speed video camera and the BXF avionics box, was  difficult initially due to multiple communication interruptions within the BXF hardware.  However, camera settings and data acquisition rates were varied and appropriate settings were found that enabled the image transfer from the high speed camera to BXF hard drive to occur at a factor of 10 faster.” BXF-NPBX  (Pool Boiling Experiment, NASA):       "Please see the two pictures on the BXF tab.  The first picture shows a smooth bubble, and the second a rough bubble.  In the second picture, this bubble has just merged with a smaller bubble, resulting in ripples and roughness.  At low wall superheats (temperature difference between the heater and fluid), one large bubble is present on the surface at cavity # 1 (center of the heater). It does not lift off from the heater surface. When multiple cavities are active, the large bubble continues to suck the smaller bubbles into it.  (Single bubble at center, P = 130 kPa, Tliq = 59C, Tw = 66C, Dia. ~ 3 cm).  At higher wall superheats, the smaller bubbles merge into a larger bubble which lifts off from the heater surface. However, the larger bubble hovers above the heater and pulls the smaller bubbles into it.  The boiling tests are showing that the dissolved gas concentration in the fluid is increasing from the value measured on 4/4.  Operations have been negatively impacted by the dissolved gas concentration because additional time is required to condense/dissolve the vapor/gas bubble." CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for   Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report. CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete. CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report. CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:      No report. CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report. CERISE (JAXA):    No report. CCF (Capillary Channel Flow):    No report. CFS-A (Colored Fungi in Space-A, ESA):   No report. CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing. CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete. CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:     No report. Commercial (Inc 23&24, JAXA):     No report. Commercial (Inc 25 & 26, JAXA):    Sample launch & return by ULF6. CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report. CsPins (JAXA):   CsPins planned runs (#2-3,2-4,2-5) were moved to Inc 27 / 28 (before ULF7 Docked). CubeLab:   No report. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete. DECLIC-ALI (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization-ALICE-like, CNES/NASA):     No report. DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS, ESA):    Acquiring science data with DOSTEL-2 detector. EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    On 4/3, EarthKAM was set up in the WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the second time this year, utilizing a T61p Laptop and battery-powered D2Xs camera.  EarthKAM operations concluded upon Lab window shutter closure in advance of the Soyuz arrival on 4/6.  Camera control files containing student requests were uplinked to the laptop, resulting in extremely high-quality 12.3 megapixel images taken with a 50mm lens aimed through the Lab window without the scratch pane installed.  Images processed at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory are posted to the EarthKAM website for students around the world to study earth & space science, geography, social studies, math, and even art.  The fact that we are putting this kind of commanding and custom selection Earth imaging capability in the hands of 9th, 10th, and 11th grade students is unprecedented and we can only dream of the impact it will have on their lives.Number of Schools signed up for  Spring Mission 171Number of Students Signed up for Spring Mission 14065Number of US Schools     132Number of International Schools    39Number of US Students     12009Number of International Students    2056 EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report. ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.  EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    No report. ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report. EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD. EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Hobbies):      No report. EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Kids in Space):   No report. EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report. EPO GREENHOUSE (ESA):    No report. EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report. EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report. EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15. EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete. EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report. EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    No report. EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report. EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report. EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete. EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report. EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report. EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report. ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    “Paolo, many thanks for checking the connector between ERB-2 and EDR-VMU. A new trial to downlink the data is currently planned on 4/14.” ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed. FACET-2 (JAXA):   No report.  FERULATE (JAXA):    No report. FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     No report. Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132. FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report. FOCUS:    No report. FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):     Active for GEOFLOW-II experiment.  Refer to GEOFLOW-II. FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report. GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report. GEOFLOW (ESA):    “Since the anomaly on 3/30, any science operations were on hold.  On 4/4 a troubleshooting activity was performed which checked the functioning of the 4 thermal actuators (TECs).  This gave positive results and the same GEOFLOW-II check-out as on 3/21 was performed again.  No visible difference was observed with the initial check-out.  The engineering teams concluded that an FSL TEC power board trip caused the anomaly on 3/30.  Power cycling of the FSL resets the trip state leading to a nominal functioning of the TECs.  The root cause is not known and engineering teams evaluated the impact of such a trip on the FSL and GEOFLOW hardware.  They concluded that the hardware could tolerate power trips, but the final decision to resume science runs was not taken yet.” HAIR (JAXA):    No report. HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1. Hicari (JAXA):    Prior to Hicari, Kobairo checkout is progressing. Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report. HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P. HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):     HICO has taken 2889 images to date.  The most recent HICO images taken include parts of Australia, the coast of Italy, the Long Island Sound and Lake Tahoe. RAIDS is collecting secondary science including nighttime atmospheric disk photometry, spectra and temperatures.  Extreme Ultra Violet airglow spectroscopy and optical contamination studies are also being performed. HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):    No report. ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete. ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):      No report. IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete. INTEGRATED IMMUNE:    No report. InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report. IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report. ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     No report. IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.  KID/KUBIK6:    No report. Kids in Micro-G:    No report. KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report. LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report. Marangoni Exp (JAXA):    24th run was completed on 12/22. Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf. Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    We are planning to return MI core and Cassette on ULF7 or SpX1 for troubleshooting. Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    No report. MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    No report. MDCA/Flex:    “Paolo: After reviewing image data from our last heptane test points, it appears that replacing the Combustion Chamber window has made a significant difference in the quality of our images from the CIR LLL-UV Imaging Package. These images are far and away the best LLL-UV images for heptane test points to date! Thanks again for your great work replacing this window!” MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.  Microbe-2 (JAXA):    Sample return by ULF6. Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete. MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally except for PEC B which is powered off and awaiting retrieval during STS-134.  The SpaceCube experiment has the ability to be reconfigured from the ground with updated code and the process of uploading new radiation hardening by software experiment algorithms is in progress.  About 30% of the file uploads are complete and the remaining uploads will be spread out over at least a month.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report. MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4. MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report. MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    Last Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) returned with STS-133 (ULF5). MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”. MULTIGEN-1:   Completed. MYCO 3 (JAXA):    No report. MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20. NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Exp1, crystal growth experiment, completed on 4/1.  Exp2 is in progress. NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report. NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete. NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report. PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report. PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report. PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report. PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report. PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report. PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG. PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete. POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete. Pro K:    No report. RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete. RadSilk (JAXA):    No report. RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    No report. RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report. SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report. SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report. SAMPLE:    Complete. SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report. SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20. SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete. SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report. SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    No report. SMILES (JAXA):   Recooling mode #13 continues. SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report. SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    COLLOID flash-disks returned with STS-133 (ULF5). SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    The SVW (Sun Visibility Window) #39 started on 3/27 and finished on 4/6.  Investigation of the SolACES anomaly (unexpected Wake-up mode transition) which occurred on 3/30 revealed that a typo in the failed script overwrote the default temperature value at which SOLACES goes from Wake-Up to Stand-by mode with an unrealistically high temperature.  Therefore SolACES never transitioned to Stand-by mode.  A script to reset the default values was executed on 3/31 and solved the problem.  Nominal science measurements could be resumed.  The SolACES team reported that they observed a significantly higher degradation of the spectrometers than before.  The suspicion is that external venting particles reached the optics. They requested to heat the instrument around +42degC to +45degC for the current dark period in the hope this will remove the particles.  SolACES temperature was changed on 4/7 and will be kept until a few days before the start of the next SVW – expected at 4/29. SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report. Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report. SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):     No report. SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA):    No report. SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.    SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):     No report. SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report. TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report. THERMOLAB (ESA):    No report. TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned. TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report. ULTRASOUND:    Planned. VASCULAR (CSA):   No report. VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report. VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring science data with NorAIS receiver. VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    No sessions possible due to Ultrasound anomaly. VO2max (NASA):    No report. VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report. WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report. YEAST B (ESA):    No report. CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    For Increment 27 through 4/3, 4,749 ISS CEO frames were received on the ground for review and cataloging.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following targets with times corresponding to our daily CEO Target Request list:  Lake Nasser, Toshka Lakes, Egypt - excellent views of the Toshka Lakes and the important areas of Lake Nasser were acquired - seasonal requirement for this target area are complete and we can remove it from our request list; Juba River fan, Somalia - good imagery acquired - preliminary review with co-investigator is highly encouraging - more feedback will follow soon in a separate document; and Madrid, Spain - good context views were acquired - under review for completion of requirements.   We are very pleased so far with your efforts to acquire imagery at our target request times - you are keeping our catalogers busy!  Two sequential photos (see CEO tab) depicting the distinct cloud fields of a pair of low pressure systems over the eastern North Pacific were published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  The timing and oblique perspective (from the Cupola) of your photos provide excellent visuals for the evolution of these two systems, one of mature weakening, the other in youthful development.  Thanks for these nicely composed views.” CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Juan de Nova Island, Mozambique Channel (llooking just right of track for this small island [6 km long].  Juan de Nova has a major coral reef on its northern shore, larger than the island itself.  There are no complete images of the reef in our database used in a world reef mapping project.  Administratively, the island is one of the scattered islands in the Indian Ocean, a district of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands), Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso (nadir pass over this small capital city.  Two lakes are the visual cues), and São Tomé and Principe (looking right for a good view of the capital city [pop. 56,000] on the northeast shore of São Tomé island.  The city is located on two distinct bays on this shoreline.  São Tomé and Príncipe is the second-smallest African country in terms of population [163,000]). 