
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections: Kelly continues with sample collection this week for HRP experiments.  Today’s collections are in support of Microbiome and Twins Study experiments. 

The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
The Twins Study is an integrated compilation of multiple studies led by multiple PI’s at multiple centers.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, one of whom experiences space travel for one year; the other remains earth-bound for that same year. The study looks at changes in the human body in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.

Rodent Research (RR) Preparations: Cristoforetti gathered and stowed the equipment needed for RR operations near the location where the RR activities will occur. Kelly is scheduled to execute a Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) filter changeout as part of regular payload facility maintenance, but needed prior to RR-2.  RR-2 will be delivered and science will begin following SpaceX-6 (SpX-6) arrival.
Aniso Tubule: Cristoforetti performed the final data transfer for the Aniso Tubule Run 10. The experiment examines growth modifications of Arabidopsis hypocotyls in space. Scientists aim to analyze the changes in dynamics of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins by observing Arabidopsis hypocotyls and microtubule-associated proteins with a fluorescence microscope.
Blood Pressure Regulation (BP Reg): Virts completed his in-flight BP Reg session. Ground teams are evaluating the downlinked data. BP Reg tests the effectiveness of an in-flight manipulation of arterial BP as an indicator of post-flight response to a brief stand test since space flight negatively impacts the regulation of BP on return to upright posture on earth. A Leg Cuff test induces a brief drop in BP following the release of a short obstruction of blood flow to the legs. The change in BP from pre-flight to in-flight will be used to predict those astronauts who might be susceptible to experience the greatest drop in BP in the post-flight stand test. A second objective of the investigation is to determine whether cardiac output calculated from the analysis of the finger blood pressure waveform provides an accurate estimate both pre-flight and in-flight by comparison with a rebreathing method. 
On-Board Training (OBT) Dragon Offset Grapple #1: In preparation for SpX-6 capture scheduled for April 15th, the USOS crew practiced Dragon grapple approaches with special attention given to how the crew can best manage the volumetric constraints in the Cupola and how the lighting conditions vary inside the Cupola. Following the training, the crew had a conference with ground teams to assess the training session.
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Status: Overnight, the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) processed urine to provide distillate to the WPA wastewater tank. After the wastewater tank was full the ground teams initiated a WPA process cycle.  Tomorrow, ground teams will review data from the overnight WPA process cycle to determine if a Gas Separator remove and replace (R&R) is required to be performed on Friday.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


BIOME – Microbiome Body Sampling Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
BIOME – Sample Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
BP REG – Experiment Ops
TOCA Water Sample Analysis
ANISO – Data Transfer
Audio Conference with Retro FM Radio Station Hosts (S-band)
Terminate transfer of water to the water storage tank via the MRF
Hose Replacement in СРВ-К2М.
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
CONTROL. Switching Indicator-ISS P/L measuring modes
Rodent Research Microgravity Science Glovebox Gather
IDENTIFIKATSIYA
24-hour BP Monitoring (end)
BIOME – Hardware Setup for Sampling
BAR. Experiment Ops.
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Replacement of FGB Dust Collector ПС1, ПС2 Filter
BIOME – Perspiration Sampling Operations
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Display and Control Panel (DCP) Powerup
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Re-torque the Crank Handle socket head cap screw
Tightening ARED Bolts
Assessment of Access to Node 3 Forward Rack Bay 3 Midbay Fastener
Copying EXPOSE-R P/L data 
TOCA Data Recording
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Crew Prep for PAO
Download Pille Dosimeter Readings
PAO Hardware Setup
PAO Event
BP –  Equipment Stowage
BIOME – Equipment Stowage
SM Ventilation System Preventive Maintenance. Group В1
ТКГ 424 (DC1) Stowage and IMS Ops
MSG – Glovebox Powerup
OBT Dragon Offset Grapple No. 1
Node 3 Aft Port IMV Fan Checkout – Part 1
VIBROLAB. Copying data from memory card to RSK1 and downlink via РСПИ.
MSG – Filter Replacement
24-hour ECG Holter Monitoring (termination)
Copying EXPOSE-R P/L data from БСПН to RSS1 (terminate)
OBT Dragon Offset Grapple No. 1
IMS Delta File Prep
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
OBT – Dragon Rendezvous and Docking Conference
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Reviews of the reference material for upcoming ultrasound scanning activity/blood pressure measurement
EMU – Conductivity Test
MSG – Powerdown
24-hour ECG Holter Monitoring (start)
СОЖ Maintenance
VZAIMODEISTVIYE-2. Experiment Ops
BIOME – Sample Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
Node 3 Aft Port IMV Fan Checkout – Part 2
BIOME – Sample Stowage
Camcorder Stowage

Completed Task List Items
None 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


MSS to hot backup
OBT Dragon grapple ops
MSS power down 

