
Plant Gravity Perception (PGP): The crew began the final Plant Gravity Perception experiment run on Saturday with three of the Experiment Containers maintaining power. For this investigation, normal and mutated forms of thale cress, a model research plant, are germinated to support the study of the plants’ gravity and light perception. Results provide insight into the plants’ adaptation to a microgravity environment and supports efforts to grow plants for food on future space missions.
Veg-03:  Today the crew completed the final harvest of the VEG-03 plants today.  Sample leaves were preserved and inserted into cold stowage for later return to the Earth.  Veggie facilities were cleaned and set up to dry. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Microbial Tracking, Biochemical Profile, and Repository):  A 53S crewmember completed saliva collections yesterday for his Flight Day (FD) 120 session that supports the Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2) experiment.  54S crewmembers collected blood and urine samples yesterday and today for their FD15 sessions that supports the Biochem Profile and Repository investigations.

The Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2) investigation series continues the monitoring of the types of microbes that are present on the ISS.  It seeks to catalog and characterize potential disease-causing microorganisms onboard the ISS. Crew pre-flight, in-flight, and post-flight samples and environmental samples are collected to identify any associations between the microbial contents of the samples, as well as potential health effects.
The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. The repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): After retrieving the RaDI-N hardware from a Russian crewmember, a USOS crewmember deployed eight Space Bubble Detectors on a Node 3 rack front today. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation measures neutron radiation levels while onboard the ISS. Bubble detectors used as neutron monitors are designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students (EarthKAM): The crew reactivated the EarthKAM equipment in Node 1 for an imaging session yesterday. EarthKam allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the International Space Station. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Video Upgrade Equipment (VUE):  Troubleshooting steps for the failed MSG VUE were unsuccessful today.  Ground experts are evaluating the results and developing additional steps to resolve the issue. 
Acoustic Monitoring:  Crew-worn acoustic monitors were set up and distributed to 3 crewmembers.  These will be worn for 24 hours before they will be deployed to static locations within ISS.  The acoustic monitoring sessions gather data to characterize any changes to the acoustic environment throughout the station.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pump Separator Replacement:  Today the crew reported that the Pump Separator was making unusual noises and that the Check Pump Separator indicator light could no longer be cleared using troubleshooting procedures. Ground specialists declared the hardware failed and the crew completed the Removal and Replacement (R&R) using an on-board spare. This failed pump separator will be returned to the ground at a future date for inspection in order to determine the cause of failure. After the R&R, the Pump Separator and WHC system is performing nominally.
Dragon Cargo Operations:  This weekend, the crew completed several hours of additional Dragon cargo operations to include the transfer of the Invitrobone 1 and 2 payloads.  Today, the crew conducted additional cargo transfers and removed the Dragon Lithium Hydroxide (LiOH) Filter Bag located at the forward starboard quadrant of the Dragon Capsule.  This LiOH filter bag provided Carbon Dioxide (CO2) scrubbing from the Dragon vehicle during free flight.  A new LiOH Filter Bag will be installed into Dragon prior to departure with CO2 scrubbing during berthed ops via the joint atmosphere.  With today’s activities, Dragon cargo operations are complete until later this week.
Dragon Robotic Operations:  Friday night Robotics Ground Controllers removed the new Pump Flow Control Subsystem (PFCS) and Materials International Space Station Experiment (MISSE) from the Dragon trunk.  Saturday, the Robotics Ground Controllers walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off Node 2 onto Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF)3, unstowed the SPDM and translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 4 (WS4) to WS2.  Sunday ground controllers used Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to temporarily remove the spare Direct Current Switching Unit (DCSU) from Express Logistics Carrier (ELC)-2 for the MISSE worksite clearance.  MISSE was installed on ELC-2, and heater power applied. SPDM was then used to reinstall the spare DCSU on ELC-2.  This evening the ground robotic specialist will be configuring for PFCS R&R on Tuesday. First, the MT will be translated from WS2 to WS8. Next SPDM will unlock and open the Multilayer Insulation (MLI) cover over the PFCS. Finally SPDM will remove the new PFCS from the Flight Support Equipment (FSE). 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


HRF Generic Urine Collection
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection
Acoustic Monitor Setup for Crew Worn Measurements
EML. Gas Valves Opening
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
MATRYOSHKA-R. Prep and Initialization of Bubble-Dosimeter Detectors
ELEKTRON purge after deactivation
Mouse Stress Defense Cage Water Maintenance Familiarization
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
Installation of additional fans to improve thermal conditions of SM Electric Power Supply units 800А.
Profile of Mood States (POMS) Questionnaire
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons Hardware Handover
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeters to USOS
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeters initialization and deployment for exposure
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Setup
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Mouse Stress Defense Cage Maintenance for Water 1
FAZOPEREKHOD. Preparation steps and starting the experiment.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Polar Desiccant Swap
Combustion Integrated Rack Consolidation
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Questionnaire
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Waste Water Bag (WWB) Changeout
Microgravity Science Glovebox Vue Troubleshooting
Dragon Locker Removal
FAZOPEREKHOD. Closeout Ops.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
RS Photo Cameras Sync Up to Station Time
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Dragon Cargo Transfer
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) SamplFe Analysis
Dragon Cargo Transfer
Crew Prep for PAO Event
PAO hardware setup. Video/Audio check
ISS Emergency OBT Overview [Aborted]
APEX6 VEGGIE Facility Sanitization
Dragon Lithium Hydroxide (LiOH) Filter Bag Removal
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
TV-Conference with Cadets of the Tula Suvorov Military School
Checking БД-2 treadmill carriage position.
TangoLab2 Card Swap
VEG-03F MWA Preparation
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
VEG-03F MELFI Insertion #2
Acoustic Monitor Battery Swap
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
VEG-03F Harvest
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA

Completed Task List Activities

WHC Pump Separator R&R

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Standard Commanding
SpX External Cargo Ops
MT Translation 

