
Meteor Troubleshooting and Camera Installation:  Williams performed troubleshooting on the Meteor payload software issues that were experienced yesterday, but the troubleshooting was unsuccessful.  He then began installing the hardware into the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).  The hardware installation was partially completed, with the camera and the WORF hatch remaining to be installed. Meteor’s first primary science target is the Lyrid meteor shower peak on April 22, GMT day 113. Meteor is a new payload with the objective to fly a visible spectroscopy instrument to the ISS for the primary purpose of observing meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust such as size, density, and chemical composition. Since the parent comets or asteroids for most of the meteor showers are identified, the study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about those comets and asteroids. Meteor plans to operate for 2 years.
 
Rodent Research-3 (RR-3) Life Science Hardware Setup in Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): In preparation for RR-3 operations, Kopra installed the life science filters, floor coverings, back plate, and other required equipment in the MSG. He also set up a camcorder to capture High Definition cabin video of the operations. RR-3 is a Joint USOS Experiment (JUE) performed with both USOS and Russian crew members and studies molecular and physical changes in the musculoskeletal system that happen in space. Results expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
 
General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) 2 Desiccant Pack Swap: In preparation for SpaceX-8 payload investigations, Peake replaced used desiccant packs with new packs as part of standard conditioning.
 
Biological Rhythms 48 Multi Media Card (MMC) Exchange: Williams exchanged the MMC and battery and began the second 24-hour measurement process. The objective of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Biological Rhythms 48 is to study the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: Kopra submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the International Space Station. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Remove & Replace (R&R): On Monday the Node 3 MCA failed.  Teams reviewed the data and determined that the Data Control Assembly (DCA) experienced an internal Circuit Card Assembly (CCA) failure and recommended replacing ORU1.  This morning the crew R&Rd the ORU1 with an available spare on orbit.  MCA was successfully brought up to operate and is currently stabilizing and awaiting calibration before readings are taken.  The removed ORU will be returned to the ground for refurbishment.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Crew Prep for PAO / r/g 1891
JEM Airlock Pressurization
PAO hardware setup
Acoustic Dosimeter Stow
TV Conference with Russia Today TV Channel Correspondent r/g 1891
BLR48 – starting measurement
Preparing for Replacement of Signal-VM Smoke Detectors ДС-7А / SM IVA IMF r/g 1889
Preparing for replacement of FGB Internal Hydraulic Loop [ВГК] 2-1 Replaceable Pump panel r/g 1868
MCA Data and Control Assembly (DCA)  R&R
JEM Airlock Leak Check
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring / r/g 1880
GLACIER2 –  Desiccant Replacement
CONSTANTA-2. Removal of Cassette from TBU-V and setup on panel for 1-hour warmup / r/g 1876
CIR – Post-Experiment Hardware Stowage
TV Conference with REN TV Channel Correspondent r/g 1890
IMS and Stowage Conference
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops r/g 1892
BRI log download from RSS1
METEOR – Hardware Setup and Activation [Deferred]
Photography of Plume Impingement and Deposit Monitoring Unit [БКДО] position on MRM2 through SM window No.13  r/g 1348
CONSTANTA-2. Preparation and Execution 2 r/g 1876
Scheduled monthly maintenance of Central Post Laptop r/g 1888
Video recording for Yandex search engine / r/g 1887
Rodent Research (RR) Camcorder Setup
PAO Hardware Setup
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) – Activation
Crew Prep for PAO
PAO Event
ESA Weekly Crew Conference
Early unstow, priority, and US cargo transfers from Progress 432 (SM Aft) and IMS Ops / r/g 1812, 1831, 1832
Habitability Narrated Task Video Setup – Subject
MRM2 comm config to support the P/L Ops
METEOR – Closeout Ops
Hardware Setup for Rodent Research Operations
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Hardware Setup and Configuration r/g 1878
Loading ISS-Server1 Backup Hard Drives – Part 3
OBT – ROBoT onboard simulator – Session 2
Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Run r/g 1878
Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Photography / r/g 1879
VIZIR. Experiment Ops
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Copy and Downlink Data / r/g 1878
Early unstow, priority, and US cargo transfers from Progress 432 (SM Aft) and IMS Ops / r/g 1812, 1831, 1832
Installation of iPad RunSoc Application, Part 1
Installation of iPad RunSoc Application, Part 2
CONYUGATSIYA. Installation and Activation of TBU-V No. 02 r/g 1875
CONTENT. Experiment Ops / r/g 1874
IMS Delta File Prep
Installation of iPad RunSoc Application, Part 3
Habitability Narrated Task Video Setup End – Subject
Crew conference with Astronaut Office
Flight Director / ISS Crew Tagup
Daily Planning Conference (S-band)
Carbon Monoxide Monitor (CDM) Ops
MSG power off
Portable Oxygen Monitor (POM) Ops

 
Completed Task List Items

Dragon pre-pack [Active]

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

MSG hardware setup
Nominal ground commanding

 
