
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): Today EarthKAM mission 66 concluded with a shutdown and stow of the related hardware.  As of the latest report, a total of 225 schools representing 24,512 students and 31 countries had signed up to request images;  22,123 image requests had been submitted, 10,278 images had been downlinked, and 9,982 images had been posted to the web (earthkam.org).  A total of 5 Russian schools representing 64 students participated in this mission. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR)/Light Microscopy Module (LMM)/Biophysics-6 experiment start:  The crew removed a LMM/Biophysics-6 (Bio-6) plate from MELFI and allowed it to thaw. When the crew performed an inspection of the thawed plate, they reported a possible broken capillary. The plate was bagged and stowed appropriately and ground teams will assess a forward plan. LMM/Bio-6, more formally known as Growth Rate Dispersion as a Predictive Indicator for Biological Crystal Samples Where Quality Can Be Improved with Microgravity Growth, studies ground-based predictions of which crystals benefit from crystallization in microgravity, where Earth’s gravity does not interfere with their formation. In this experiment, two proteins of interest in cancer treatment and radiation protection are to be studied. Observing crystallized proteins via X-ray crystallography on the ground allows scientists to determine how they are built, which can explain how they work or how other molecules, such as drugs, might interact with them.
The ISS Experience:  The crew set up the ISS Experience hardware with the goal of capturing the crews’ evening Daily Planning Conference evening meal. These are both Human interactions targets of interest for the ISS Experience team. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
SUBSA (Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules) Sample Exchange: The crew removed the completed InI (Indium Iodide) sample cartridge #1 and inserted sample cartridge #7 to be processed.  Both of these are solidification-from-melt samples and require up to 50 hours to be fully processed.  The experiment currently running in SUBSA is the Detached Melt and Vapor Growth of InI.  InI is ideal for space experiments in the SUBSA Transparent Furnace because it is non-toxic, has a relatively low melting point of only 365°C, and does not react or stick to the silica crucible.  Directional solidification of InI from the melt can be performed at a rate of 5 mm/hr, and growth from the vapor can be performed at ~5 mm/week.  This work advances the process of fabricating high-quality InI and other crystals on Earth for use as better and less expensive detectors of nuclear radiation.
P4 4A Battery Status: Over the weekend, the ground successfully performed a charge/discharge cycle on the 4A3 Nickel Hydrogen (NiH2) battery set with its newly installed Battery Charge/Discharge Unit (BCDU).  4A3 NiH2 is operating nominally on the 4A channel in the 4A1 and 4A2 Li-Ion mixed battery configuration.  
Cygnus On-board Training: Crewmembers scheduled to capture NG-11 (Cygnus) performed a Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. NG-11 is on track to launch on April 17 and berth to ISS on April 19. 
Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator (MERLIN)-1 Recovery: Last week the MERLIN-1 cooler used by the crew in the Galley as a refrigerator, experienced a Disk on Chip (DOC) failure. The crew was able to recover the MERLIN on Saturday by temporarily connecting it to a Space Station Computer (SSC) for a specialized ground recovery procedure. This is the first time this failure has been recovered on orbit. Previous units needed to be returned to the ground for repair.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew inspected Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs), Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs) and Pre-Breathe Masks for damage.  They also ensured each item was in a useable configuration and fully functional. Considered routine maintenance, this inspection is scheduled every 45 days.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: On Friday, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) for SPDM to grasp the Robotic Refueling Mission (RRM) 3 tool pedestal and retrieved it from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (AL) after it had been extended. MSS was maneuvered over the Express Logistic Carrier (ELC) 1 where the RRM3 payload is located.
Controllers commanded the SPDM to insert the tool pedestal into the RRM3 interface. Once mated, the connector was extended to provide a power and date connection to the tools. Once this was confirmed, the SPDM released the tool pedestal and backed away. The MSS was then configured in preparation of a Mobile Transporter (MT) translation from worksite 7 to worksite 3.
Following translation, Controllers repowered the MSS. SSRMS stowed SPDM onto Mobile Base System (MBS) 2. After a base change, the SSRMS released the SPDM and was configured for a walkoff to Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF). Upon successful base change, the SSRMS released MBS PDGF 1 and was parked in preparation for the crew offset grapples scheduled on Tuesday, April 16. Finally ROBO performed SSRMS checkouts for NG-11 capture on April 19. 
Completed Task List Activities:

Thursday:

Airway Monitoring A/L stow
CSA Time Q&A video
EVA A/L stow
RGR downlink msg


Friday

Vacuum cleaner bag R&R
Bone Densitometer Locker removal
REBA troubleshooting
Medical Kit restock
WPA MF bed effluent sample build
P/TV A/L video stow
Rodent Research locker prep
Urine funnel stow
EVA tool stow
WHC EDV-Y R&R


Saturday

WHC adapter R&R
MERLIN-1 troubleshooting
EVA tool stow


Sunday

Food consolidation
JEM stowage rack relocate
PMM rack front restow



Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Airway Monitoring video

Tuesday, 4/16:
Payloads:


EML lens switch
Food acceptability
ISS Experience
JAXA/Mouse Mission prep
Myotones
Standard Measures

Systems:

Cygnus Offset Grapple OBT
Mouse Habitat Unit watering function checkout
Swap TReK demo laptop from T61p to ZBook

Wednesday, 4/17:
Payloads:


AHIS culture photo
EML lens switch
ISS Experience hardware stow
ISS HAM pass
Lighting Effects
JAXA/Mouse Mission prep
JEMAL slide table ops
Repository
Rodent Research gather
Standard Measures
Time Perception

Systems:

Cygnus RoBOT OBT
EVA loop scrub
Cygnus cargo transfer conference

Thursday, 4/18:
Payloads:


GLACIER/POLAR desiccant swaps
LSG Repository
MISSE procedure review
Rodent Research-12 hab install
Standard Measures

Systems:

EVA Airlock restow
CBCS installation/checkout
HRF blood collections 

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
JAXA Mouse Mission Item Gathering
MO-8 equipment stowage
On MCC GO [БМП Ф1] cartridge regeneration (start)
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. Ham radio pass with students from South Ural University
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Filter Remove and Replace (R&R)
VOZDUKH deactivation
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Video Cable Reconfiguration to Video Compression and Recording Unit 2 (VRU2) part 1
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Setup
Examination of heart bioelectrical activity at rest
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Backup Power Setup
[ВКС] laptop antivirus signature base update
Columbus cleanup for Myotones
PAO Hardware Setup Video and Audio check
KONSTANTA-2.
PAO Preparation
Myotones Kit Gathering
TV event with pupils of school №504 in Moscow
Glove Box Setup
Water Processor Assembly Multi-filtration Bed Sample Collection
Weekly c/o of video recording equipment operation at RS ISS
Pre-treat tank [Е-К] and hose R&R in [АСУ] system
Robot Startup
Interior Wireless Instrumentation System (IWIS) Service Module (SM) Remote Sensor Unit (RSU) Check
ИП-1 sensors positioning check
KONSTANTA-2.
Standard Measures Cognition Testing HRF PC 1
Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) Activation
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 1
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules Sample Exchange
Physical exercise data d/l via ОСА
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tools Stow
PAO Preparation
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ (КОВ) for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ, Water refill (separation) from [ЕДВ] 1350 into [ЕДВ] 1330
PAO Hardware Setup Video and Audio check
TV event with participants of “ISS on call” project (Ku+S-band)
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
Extra Vehicular Activity Mobility Unit swap
СОЖ maintenance
RYASKA. Photography of cultivation cells with plants
Standard Measures Fecal Collection Setup
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Termination
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Initiation
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection
Prepare for [БОА] purification unit in VOZDUKH
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops
ISS Experience Solid State Drive Changeout
MOTOCARD.
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
EarthKAM Node 1 Shutdown, Disconnect and Stow
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Self study Session
LMM MELFI Sample Retrieve
MOTOCARD. Science ops run instead of exercise
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config JEM Setup
MOTOCARD. End of Video-recording and Closeout Ops
Move Station Support Computer (SSC) 18 for Earth Knowledge Applied to Middle schools (EarthKAM)
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
ISS Experience Node 1 Setup
LMM Biophysics Plate 1 Installation
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
Deactivate VOZDUKH
ISS Experience Microphone Don
ISS Experience Social Moments Recording
ISS Experience Microphone Doff
ISS Experience Hardware Relocate
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Stow

 