
Metabolic Tracking (MT): Today the crew injected thawed inoculum into multiwell BioCells, which were then inserted into a NanoRacks Plate Reader.  The crew also took samples from the BioCell A group and collected surface and air samples while photographing each location.  The samples were placed into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  The Metabolic Tracking investigation evaluates a rapid, low-cost method for assessing the effects of therapeutic compounds in microgravity. The method contributes to development of custom plans for emergency medical treatment for crew members, using primary tissue samples. This investigation also determines the feasibility of developing improved pharmaceuticals in microgravity using a new method to test the metabolic impacts of drug compounds. This could lead to more effective, less expensive drugs.
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  Today the crew collected surface and air samples at different locations throughout the station then placed them inside a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) in support of the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation.  MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1 year period.  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time. 
Genes in Space-5:  For the Genes in Space experiment the crew processed samples in the Miniature Polymerase Chain Reaction (miniPCR), and then transferred the data for downlink. The Genes in Space investigation is a winning student-designed experiment that tests whether the polymerase chain reaction can be used to study DNA alterations onboard the ISS. Spaceflight causes many changes to the human body, including alterations in DNA and a weakened immune system. Understanding whether these two processes are linked is important for safeguarding crew health, but DNA technology that can track these changes is relatively untested in space. 
Materials ISS Experiment – Flight Facility (MISSE-FF):  The ground opened the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) inner hatch and extended the slide table into the JEM.  The crew then reconfigured the JEM ORU Transfer Interface (JOTI) and installed the MISSE-FF Transfer Tray (MTT) on the slide table and loaded it with 4 MISSE Sample Carriers.  The slide table was retracted back into the JEMAL and the later today the Airlock will be depressurized and vented.  MISSE-FF will be a permanent external platform on the ISS that is modular and robotically serviceable. Remotely controllable sample carriers will provide sample protection and on-demand picture data previously unavailable on prior experiments.  Sample plates containing a variety of surface materials will be exposed to the space environment outside the ISS for varying durations to inform satellite designers on how different materials degrade over time. 
MetOx Regeneration Termination: Today the crew terminated a regeneration cycle on two MetOx canisters scheduled for use during an upcoming EVA.  MetOx canisters are reusable carbon dioxide (CO2) removal devices used by Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) during EVA. The approximately 14 hour regeneration process is required to restore their CO2 scrubbing capability. 
Eye Exams: Today the 54S crew completed the second day of routine eye exams using Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and a Fundoscope. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew continued with Dragon cargo operations today. Over the next several days, the crew will remove the final ascent items still stowed in the Dragon capsule and begin loading items identified for return on SpaceX-14. 
Dragon Robotic Operations:  Last night, robotics ground controllers performed a Mobile Transporter (MT) translation from Worksite (WS)8 to WS6, stowed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on the Mobile Base System (MBS) and walked Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off the MT to Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF).  Today, ground controllers extracted the Atmosphere Space Interaction Monitor (ASIM) payload from the Dragon Trunk and installed the hardware onto the Columbus External Payloads Facility (CEPF) starboard facing adaptor plate. Later today, they will remove the degraded Pump Flow Control Subassembly (PFCS) from the Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP) and install the unit in the Dragon Trunk for disposal. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
Regenerative UPA Vent Adapter R&R
Genes in Space Sample Operations
Activation of Laptop RS2
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. Hardware Check
Transfer of ЦВМ and ТВМ SW Images Version 08.10 to Central Post Computer 1 (КЦП1).
JEM ORU Xfer I/F (JOTI) Peg 23 Removal and Stowage
Metabolic Tracking Inoculation Preparation
Genes in Space Payload Message Record
Materials ISS Experiment-Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) MTT Install
Microbial Tracking-2 Environmental Sample Collection
Checking tightness of БД-2 connection box and replacement of main motor drive belt.
Metabolic Tracking MELFI Metabolic Tracking Group Retrieve
Metabolic Tracking Biocells Inoculation
Deactivation of RS2 Laptop
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Retraction from JPM Side
JEM Airlock Depressurization
Pressurization of Elektron-VM Liquid Unit before Activation
Metabolic Tracking Plate Reader Insertion/Removal
Scheduled quarterly maintenance of Central Post Laptop
Metabolic Tracking Session Cleanup
Genes in Space Sample Remove
Genes in Space MELFI Insert
Genes in Space MELFI Sample Retrieve
Genes in Space Sample Operations
CONSTANTA-2. Cassette removal from ТБУ-В and setup on panel for 1-hour warmup
Metabolic Tracking Biocells Sampling BioCell A
CONSTANTA-2. Preparation and Execution 6.
Installation of Software Version 4.2 on the station RSE-Med Laptop. 
Cargo Transfer to Dragon
Microbial Tracking-2 Sample MELFI Insert
CONSTANTA. ТБУ-В No.05 Deactivation
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 6.
Photo of RS Windows No.2 (SM [PO]), No.13 and No.14 (SM ПхО), EV Hatch 1 Window in MRM2
Metabolic Tracking MELFI Sample Bag Insertion
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
APEX-06 Adjust Light
Genes in Space Sample End
JEM Airlock Vent
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Stow Operation
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
СОЖ maintenance
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Termination
JEM Airlock Vent Confirmation
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Mouse Stress Defense Cage Maintenance for Water 2
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab, CO2 Meter Teardown and Stow
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Setup
On-orbit hearing assessment using EARQ
КМА SW Update on RSE2 Laptop.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Eye Exam – Fundoscope
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Columbus Payload Power Switching Box (PPSB) reconfiguration
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Tear Down and Stow

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Metabolic Tracking Support
JEM Airlock Depress
SpaceX Robotics External Cargo Operations
Dragon Cargo Ops support 

