
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom-1: 
Public Affairs Office (PAO), Payload, and Commercial Activities: Multiple NASA-sponsored and ESA-sponsored PAO events have been performed, including eight Ice Cube Media Set events, three Ham radio events, and three PAO events, including a duet in space between Mike LA and the neoclassical pianist BLKBOK. The Ax-1 crew completed activities associated with several ISS National Lab sponsored payloads including Aging and Heart Health, Neurowellness, Earth Observation, Modeling Tumor Organoids, and Nano ISS Antenna.  Mike LA will take still and video imagery of approved commercial activities including his participation in the ASTM International Committee F47 on Commercial Spaceflight Executive Committee meeting.
Payloads:
H2 Sensor Tech Demo (H2ST) Install: The crew routed the H2ST Power Supply Cable from the Ku-Band Power Supply to the front of LAB1P1. The crew then installed the H2STon the front of the Life Support Rack (LSR). The H2ST power up and sensor drift check will be performed in a future activity.
Aging and Heart Health: The ISS and Ax-1 crew retrieved and swapped Aging and Heart Health habitats into the Life Science Glovebox (LSG) and performed media change and sampling operations. Aging and Heart Health analyzes human cells for genetic markers of cellular aging and explores how cardiac-like cells adapt to microgravity. A better understanding of the mechanisms of cellular aging and cardiac adaptation could support crew health and success on future missions.
Earth Observation (Ax-1): The Ax-1 crew donned Day/Night Glasses inside Cupola and photographed assigned ground targets. The Earth Observation (Ax-1) investigation uses images taken from the ISS to study changes in weather and other planetary features; natural events, including fires and volcanic eruptions; and human features such as agriculture and urbanization. The project also plans to take images of the Great Lakes Basin to enhance the ongoing Great Lakes Project sponsored by the Royal Canadian Geographical Society (RCGS). An important source of water in Canada and the US, the Basin faces stress from climate change, urbanization, and other factors.
Nano ISS Antenna (Ax-1): Ax-1 crew conducted a calibration and antenna imaging for Nano ISS Antenna.  Nano ISS Antenna tests deployment of a folded antenna used to provide high bandwidth communications. Miniaturized satellite electronics and sensors can provide valuable scientific and navigation capabilities, but small, simple antennas cannot transmit large quantities of data, limiting the usability of small satellites.
Neurowellness in Space (Ax-1): Neurowellness hardware was donned by Ax-1 crew to monitor cognitive performance and brain activity in microgravity. Neurowellness in Space is a Technology Demonstration investigating the viability of long-term monitoring of brain dynamics and cognitive function in space ecosystems using a portable electroencephalography (EEG) headset to measure differences in brain activity in microgravity. The device measures both ongoing and task-related brain activity. Data on microgravity-induced differences in cognitive performance could help predict neural changes on future long-term space missions.
Systems: 
Robotic Operations: Yesterday (GMT 103), the Robotics Ground Operators translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 2 (WS2) to WS4. During this translation the MT Relay Assembly (MTRA) checkout was performed. The MTRA was checked out successfully on the redundant string after de-mating the Umbilical Mating Assemblies (UMAs) at WS2 and on the prime string before re-mating the UMAs at WS4. Following the MT translate Ground Operators started a survey of the Ax-1 vehicle Thermal Protection System (TPS) which was completed today. Following the TPS survey, the MT was translated from WS4 to WS6.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning: In preparation for Crew-3 departure, the crew cleaned the intake and exhaust ducts, fans, and airflow sensors in the Overhead Crew Quarters. Due to the large amounts of dust seen during previous CQ cleanings, the crew removed all relevant panels, temporarily stowed them, and then cleaned all areas at once.
Battery Pack Testing: Today, the crew finished the evaluation on the battery packs used on the Universal Battery Charger (UBC). The crew identified that the battery packs will take a charge on Bay 2 but are not charging on Bay 1. Additionally, the crew found four battery packs were operating properly and had enough charge to spin the drill.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Survey of Dragon
MT Translation
SSRMS Walkoff to Node2 [IN WORK]
SPDM Unstow [IN WORK]

