
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom-1 (Ax-1): 
Public Affairs Office (PAO), Payload, and Commercial Activities: Multiple NASA-sponsored and ESA-sponsored PAO events have been performed, including nine Ice Cube Media Set events, two HAM radio events, and one PAO event between the Ax-1 crew and youth at Space Center Houston. The Ax-1 crew completed activities associated with several ISS National Lab sponsored payloads including Neurowellness, Tumor Oraganoids, Nano ISS Antenna, and Holoportation. M. Pathy completed the BioMonitor activity using CEVIS. Mike LA will take still and video imagery of approved commercial activities, including food made in partnership with Jose Andres and an Axiom NFT mint initiation from space.
Payloads:
Acoustic Upgraded Diagnostics In-Orbit (Acoustic Diagnostics): The Acoustic Diagnostic instrument hardware was setup and calibrated, and measurements were recorded. The Acoustic Diagnostics investigation tests the hearing of ISS crew members before, during, and after flight. This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
Bio-Monitor: An Ax-1 crewmember performed a calibration and an exercise session with Bio-Monitor hardware. Upon completion, the Ax-1 crewmember doffed and stowed the Bio-Monitor hardware. The data was downloaded to the ground completing a 48-hour data collection. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crewmember physiological parameters with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Crew Interactive MObile companioN (CIMON): A crewmember reviewed procedures and performed CIMON camera setting adjustments and sound check. The Pilot Study with CIMON is a technology demonstration project and an observational study that aims to obtain the first insights into the effects on crew support by an artificial intelligence (AI), in terms of efficiency and acceptance during long-term missions in space. Spaceflight missions put the crew under a substantial amount of stress and workload, and it is thought that AI could provide operational support to crewmembers.
Fluidic Space Optics (Ax-1): The Fluidic Space Optics science experiment samples were placed into the Life Science Glovebox (LSG) and injected with a liquid polymer into the bounding frames for curation. The samples were then removed from the LSG and placed in stowage. Fluidic Space Optics studies liquid behavior in microgravity and examines how this environment affects deployment and solidification of liquid polymers into optical components, serving as a proof of concept for large scale liquid space telescopes. The investigation also provides an educational demonstration of the physics of fluid mechanics in microgravity.
Holoportation Behavioral (Ax-1): Holoportation equipment was setup for a 3rd two-way communications test and then stowed. Aexa’s Holographic Teleportation Behavioral (Holoportation Behavioral) demonstrates two-way communications between Ax-1 PAM crew and the ground using a mixed-reality application. The technology includes a HoloLens 2 Artificial Reality headset and HoloWizard mixed reality application to provide users 360-degree holographic images of each other.  This capability represents a significant advancement in communication for remote settings.
Modeling Tumor Organoids in LEO (Ax-1): The Ax-1 crew retrieved samples from Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL) and placed them in the Fluorescence Microscope for microscopy imaging. Developing Modeling Tumor Organoids in LEO (Ax-1) demonstrates processes for on-orbit pre-cancer and cancer cell culture, confocal fluorescence microscopy, and real-time data transfer in support of future pre-cancer and cancer stem cell research. The investigation seeks to develop immune dysfunction and pre-cancer stem cell predictive models. Such models could inform and accelerate the development of countermeasures and enhance crew safety on future space missions as well as provide tools for detection of, and therapies for, pre-cancer, cancer, and a variety of other diseases on Earth.
Nano ISS Antenna (Ax-1): The Ax-1 crew conducted a calibration and antenna imaging for Nano ISS Antenna. Nano ISS Antenna (Ax-1) tests deployment of a folded antenna used to provide high bandwidth communications. Miniaturized satellite electronics and sensors can provide valuable scientific and navigation capabilities, but small, simple antennas cannot transmit large quantities of data, limiting the usability of small satellites.
NanoRacks Module-9 (Ax-1): An Ax-1 crewmember performed Mixing Ops #2 on the NanoRacks Module-9 sample tubes. NanoRacks Module-9 is a collection of school experiments: DHS Space Cheeseballs (Fermentation in Microgravity), IComp Space Cowboy Builders (Solidification of reinforced cement), and SHHS Polyurethane Repair Kit (Foam use for crack and minor damage repair).
Vascular Aging: A crewmember collected finger blood samples and took glucose measurements using the Glucometer. Emerging data points towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Systems: 
Battery Pack Testing Part 3: Today, the crew evaluated and removed the two battery packs which were placed on the Universal Battery Charger (UBC) in yesterday’s Part 2 and attempted to fully charge the final battery pack by leaving it on the UBC overnight. Tomorrow, the crew will evaluate if the battery pack was able to take a charge.
Water Resource Management (WRM) Condensate Sample and Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Waste Water Tank Sample: The crew collected a condensate sample from the Condensate Sample Port at the WRS-2 Utility Interface Panel (UIP). The condensate was collected into the WPA Waste Tanks because the lines leading to the WPA contained the most recently collected condensate. The crew also obtained a sample of the Waste Tank using access to the Process Line B on the WRS-2 rack interface panel. The WPA produces potable quality water from humidity condensate and reclaimed urine distillate.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Collapsible Contingency Urinal (CCU) Crew Use: The crew tested the CCU with an inactive Toilet for dual use. After using the CCU, the crew performed a drain of the CCU into the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC).
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Dragon Quiescent Operations Checkout
Mobile Transporter (MT) Translate
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Maneuver for Survey
Thermal Protection System (TPS) Survey of Crew Dragon Endeavour

