
Payloads:
Electromagnetic Levitator (EML): Argon valves were closed and a Helium valve was opened in preparation for future science runs. The EML is a facility composed of four inserts installed into the European Drawer Rack (EDR) for the electromagnetic levitation of samples. The experiment samples are installed in a dedicated Sample Chamber that is attached to EML, and can be replaced by new Sample Chambers for new experiment batches.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): Potable water was collected and transferred from the Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) sample bag to the JWRS processed water bag. The demonstration of JWRS generates potable water from urine. In the past, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Zero T2: A camcorder was setup in Node 3 and a crewmember performed Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) operations on the ARED exercise hardware for the Zero T2 study. Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, and aerobic rowing and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill there is no means of ambulating, or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking and therefore the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of no treadmill usage during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance, which is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Systems:
SpaceX-27 (SpX-27) Undock and Return: SpX-27 Cargo Dragon successfully undocked from the ISS on Saturday, April 15th, at 10:05 AM CDT. Shortly after, Dragon completed a short return trajectory and splashed down safely in the Gulf of Mexico at 3:59 PM CDT. SpX-27 returned approximately 4,300 pounds of cargo and payloads to the ground, concluding its 30 day mission.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: The crew began to unstow hardware not needed for the upcoming EVA from the airlock and then prepared the airlock to support EVA operations. Following that, the crew performed an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) resize on EMU 3013, 3009, and 3004. The crew then reconfigured the EMUs on the EMU Don-Doff Assemblies (EDDAs). Lastly, the crew degassed Contingency Water Container – Iodinated (CWC-Is) for EMU Supply. The EMU is the is the space suit currently used by astronauts to perform EVAs from the ISS Joint Airlock. It is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit. The EDDA provides restraint of the EMU during EVA prep and post activities, as well as stowage of the EMU when it is not being used. 
Cygnus – Transfer Cargo Operations: The crew performed final trash loading operations onto the Cygnus NG-18 vehicle. Cygnus is planned to remain at the space station until April 21st, before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.
Countermeasure System (CMS) Treadmill 2 (T2) Debug Breakout Cable Troubleshooting: The crew connected the Ethernet connector of the Debug Breakout Cable to the T2 GigE Adapter, making the debug breakout cable the prime Ethernet connection to DAU. This was performed as part of the troubleshooting for the T2 Command Logic Unit (CLU) failure to connect issue initially reported on GMT 95. The team has been working through the fault tree in hopes of successfully recovering T2 without having to perform a Data Avionics Unit (DAU) Removal and Replace (R&R). T2 is the second-generation ISS treadmill intended for use by USOS crewmembers to maintain crew health during extended visits to the ISS.
Water Transfer into ЕДВ Operations: The crew removed the male hose adapter and resupply tank adapter hose from the transfer setup to be utilized for ЕДВ fills from the Toilet water hose in Node 3. The crew then initiated fill of de-iodinated water from the Potable Bus into a ЕДВ. Once full, the crew performed teardown activities of the ЕДВ fill station. The ЕДВ or RS water containers are intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. They are also used to store water and urine for disposal on the Progress.
Completed Task List Activities:

Adlink Mini-PC 06 S/N 1013 Photo Survey [GMT 105]

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SPDM Stow
MSS Maneuver to IDA-F MLI Survey
WRM EDV Fill Support
SSRMS Joint Diagnostics

