
Food Physiology: The crew performed saliva collections in support of the Food Physiology investigation.  The Integrated Impact of Diet on Human Immune Response, the Gut Microbiota, and Nutritional Status During Adaptation to Spaceflight (Food Physiology) experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight. 
Myotones (Muscle Tone in Space): The crew reviewed the big picture words, set up the appropriate hardware, performed the skin marking, and the Myotones science session.  7 muscles, 2 tendons and 1 fascia area are were studied.  These targets were either known to be affected by atrophy during extended inactivity periods, or they were used as a control. The Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation are expected to provide insight into principles of human resting muscle tone, which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions.
Probiotics: The crew performed sampling and questionnaire activities for the ongoing Probiotics investigation.  Some species of harmful bacteria such asSalmonella grow stronger and more virulent in the microgravity environment of space. At the same time, the human immune system is weaker in space, leading to increased health risks. The objective of the Probiotics investigation is to study the impact of continuous consumption of beneficial bacteria (probiotics) on immune function and intestinal microbiota in astronauts in a closed microgravity environment.  The results of this investigation may be used to support improvements in crew members’ intestinal microbiota and their immune function on long-duration space missions. 
Systems
ISS Crew Handover: 61S crew continued handover to 62S crew, including on-orbit practices and lessons learned related to ISS systems and payloads. They also reviewed topics that are not limited to a particular module or scheduled activity as well as those that are usually scheduled as separate activities. This will allow the crew to be on the same page regarding various onboard operations techniques.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection:  Today, the ISS crew performed the periodic Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection that included inspecting and photographing the Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), Pre-Breath Masks, and the Quick Don Mask (QDM) and Harness.  The PEPS inspection is designed to ensure the ISS emergency equipment is in good working order.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Clean:  A USOS crewmember cleaned the Deck Crew Quarters today. During this activity, the crew cleaned behind panels, intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors as required.
Completed Task List Activities:

Solid Waste Container Replace
Hypervisor 3 (HV3) Hardware Swap – Part 1
Systems Operations Data File (SODF) Deploy
Airlock PCS Shell Swap

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) Update


N2 Cabin Repress from NORS
Deck Crew Quarters Cleaning Ground Support

