04-16-2010April 16, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 04/16/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    FD12 (Flight Day 12) of STS-131/19A. Crew sleep shifting in effect – see below.  (Due to yesterday’s late MPLM transfer, which ate into the crew’s sleeptime, they were granted an additional hour sleep this morning.)   MPLM (Multipurpose Logistics Module) “Leonardo” is back in the Shuttle cargo bay, and the Go has been given for Discovery undocking (tomorrow ~8:52am EDT).  At wake-up (1:21am this morning), FE-6 Creamer & FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), TJ’s fourth, Tracy’s first, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Also at wake-up, Caldwell-Dyson started her FD15 session of the medical protocol for Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), her first on board, performing the first urine pH spot test (not sampling) and later logging today’s diet intact.    [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Tracy required considerably more time for the session than scheduled since her packed food, delivered on 19A, took time for sorting out (probably should have been pre-organized on the ground.]  FE-1 Skvortsov terminated the overnight recharging of the KPT-2 Kelvin-video battery for the Russian BAR experiment (#23/24), run in the last three days.  Later, Skvortsov worked in the SM (Service Module) on the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, replacing the K-90 commutator (switch) on the 3SPN1 pump panel for the N2 condensate pump.     [After the R&R, two coolant jumpers were reconnected and continuity/resistance measurements taken with the Elektronika MMTs-01 Multimeter for checkout.  There are four pump panels on the two SOTR KOB loops, each pump panel with two operating ENA micropumps.]  Working in the PMA-2 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 2), FE-5 Noguchi  relocated one of the five reflective elements on its docking target in support of the STORRM DTO (Sensor Test for Orion RelNav Risk Mitigation Development Test Objective).  Afterwards, Noguchi searched for (and found) a W212 Ethernet cable of the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), and with it also a similar HRF (Human Research Facility) cable.  Throughout the day, the FE-5 took time out to support the ongoing downlinking of Orbiter late inspection video files.    [Using the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop, Soichi downlinked fresh incoming LDRI (Laser Dynamic Range Imager) data from 60 GB Ultrabay HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) swapped twice between Orbiter and ISS.]  In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and JLP (JEM Pressurized Logistics Segment), the Japanese Flight Engineer also collected 17 JAXA ARDs (Area Radiation Dosimeters) and one EXP (experimental) dosimeter and stored them for return on 19A.  Afterwards, Soichi deployed and installed 17 new ARDs plus one EXP dosimeter on the walls of the JPM & JLP, taking photographs of all installed units.  Caldwell-Dyson retrieved & stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies, deployed by her on 4/14 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.     [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]  Then, the FE-2 printed out new EVA procedural instructions and updated the EVA Systems Checklist Book, replacing four pages and adding two new ones.  Also in the Airlock, Tracy checked out the ORCA (Oxygen Recharge Compressor Assembly).  The planned transfer of ~50 lbs of O2 (oxygen) from the Shuttle was completed.  After lunch break (~6:41-7:41am, and logging her meal for PRO K), the FE-2 set up the US Lab camcorder to cover activities, then worked on the FCF FIR (Fluid Combustion Facility Fluids Integrated Rack) to remove/replace a CVB (Constrained Vapor Bubble) Module for testing. [Tracy opened the lower & upper FCF (Fluids Combustion Facility) doors, translated the FIR Optics Bench out of the rack, rotated the LMM (Light Microscopy Module) Spindle Bracket Assembly from Operate to Service position for removing the LMM Optical Test Target from the LMM X-Y Stage, installed the CVB Module #2002 onto the LMM X-Y Stage in preparation for module testing, and then rotated the LMM Spindle Bracket Assembly back to Operate position.  After closing the upper & lower FCF doors, Tracy turned on two switches and notified POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) that the rack was prepared for command on RPC (Remote Power Controller.]   Also in the Lab, Caldwell-Dyson worked on the CGBA (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus)-5 payload, removing the presently installed NLP (National Lab Pathfinder) cells in their bag and stowed them for return on 19A.  CGBA-5 was closed up again.  For troubleshooting the CGBA-6, FE-6 Creamer removed the primary Compact Flash memory card and replaced the payload’s EXPRESS rack power cable with a new one.  Timothy also started another sampling run (the 86th) with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.     [Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  Also on TJ’s work schedule for today: Searching for a CTB (Cargo Transfer Bag) with ERB2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular 2) items and ERB2 transport container in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) ISS, and Progress spacecraft.  Due to today’s shortened work day, the originally planned relocation of the Cupola RWS (Robotics Workstation) and its installation at the Cupola were deferred to the post-undocking Stage, but Noguchi did complete the installation of three new Cupola corner panel in Node-3.    Creamer & Clay Anderson had ~1 hr set aside to check out and verify EEH (EMU Electrical Harness) connectors on three EMUs (Extravehicular Mobility Units, 3005, 3009, 3010) and one Planar HUT (Hard Upper Torso), taking photographs and measuring connectors on the EEH of all three spacesuits.  The originally planned transfer of two EMUs to the Shuttle has been deferred.    [Connectors have caused problems in the past, such as the power failure to the WVS (Wireless Video System) on EMU 3004 during STS-130, or comm issues on EMU 3018 on several occasions.]  FE-3 Kornienko downlinked the CO2 data collected on 4/11-12 with the CDM (Carbon Dioxide Monitor, #1020) overnight in his new sleep station in the JAXA JLP, and downloaded to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) on 4/12.  Alex Skvortsov completed the periodic (currently daily) checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways. [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]  Sasha also did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Oleg Kotov performed the functional check of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM for taking structural dynamics data during the docked period.  Afterwards, Kotov copied the data to a USB drive, cleared the archive and downlinked the files.  The hardware was then restarted to continue taking data.     [Data calldown to TsUP/Moscow must be done once a day during joint flight of 19A with the ISS, the file downlink and restart every third day.  IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]  Tracy, Soichi & TJ filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC.     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  Sasha, Misha & Tracy again had free time to themselves for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.  At ~2:50pm, the FE-2 had her periodic PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- & Ku-band audio/video.  FE-5 & FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Soichi at ~10:30am, TJ at ~1:46pam.  The crew completed today’s physical workout regime on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).     T2/COLBERT Update:   The T2 treadmill is currently only being used in unpowered mode, after its PAU (Power Avionics Unit) exhibited increased temperatures, most likely due to a short circuit in a power converter to the treadmill motors.  Workouts in unpowered mode are entirely satisfactory from Flight Surgeon’s standpoint.  WRM Update:   A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.     [The updated card (23-0003D) lists 98 CWCs (2,230.6 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (21 CWCs with 709.1 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 432.1 L in 14 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 129.4 L in 4 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 1 bag with 23.0 L contains Wautersia, 1 bag with 43.6 L requires sample analysis, 4 bags with 170.8 L are to be used with microbial filter & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (58 CWCs with 997.6 L),  4. condensate water (8 bags with 130.9 L, including 2 empty ones and 2 CWCs with 43.4 L that are to be used with microbial filter, and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 26.3 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  Wake/Sleep schedule on ISS (EDT):       FD WAKE  SLEEP   FD11 12:21am 3:51pm   FD12 12:21am 3:21pm   FD13 2:20am 5:30pm    No CEO (Crew Earth Observations) photo targets uplinked for today.  