
Medical Proteomics: The crew performed a blood draw session in support of the JAXA Medical Proteomics experiment.  Medical Proteomics evaluates changes of proteins in blood serum, bone and skeletal muscles after space flight, and supports identification of osteopenia-related proteins. By combining research results for space mice, astronauts and ground patients, proteins related to osteopenia can be identified using the latest proteome analysis technique. It is anticipated that the use of the marker proteins related to osteopenia will be of benefit in the future for assessing the health of astronauts as well as osteoporosis patients on ground.
SUBSA (Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules) sample exchange: The crew removed the completed InI (Indium Iodide) sample cartridge #7 and inserted sample cartridge #5 to be processed. Both of these are solidification-from-melt samples and require up to 50hrs to be fully processed. The experiment currently running in SUBSA is the Detached Melt and Vapor Growth of InI.  InI is ideal for space experiments in the SUBSA Transparent Furnace because it’s non-toxic, has a relatively low melting point of only 365°C, and does not react or stick to the silica crucible. Directional solidification of InI from the melt can be performed at a rate of 5 mm/hr, and growth from the vapor can be performed at ~5 mm/week. This work advances the process of fabricating high-quality InI and other crystals on Earth for use as better and less expensive detectors of nuclear radiation.
Two-Phase flow 2: As a continuation of Two-Phase Flow series of experiments, the crew altered the valve settings of the Two-Phase Flow Experiment Unit. The Two-Phase Flow experiment investigates the heat transfer characteristics of flow boiling in the microgravity environment. This experiment provides a fundamental understanding of the behaviors of bubble formation, liquid-vapor flow in a tube, and how heat is transferred in cooling systems. This investigation also seeks to establish a database of thermodynamic data for microgravity boiling and two-phase flow.
Northrop Grumman 11 (NG-11):  The crew successfully captured Cygnus with the Space Station Remote Manipulation System (SSRMS) today at 4:28AM CT. Once captured, they handed off control of the SSRMS to ground Robotics Controllers who then maneuvered the vehicle to the Node 1 Nadir (N1N) Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) interface where it was securely bolted to the ISS. Once the CBM bolting operations were complete, the crew and ground teams worked together to perform Node 1 CBM vestibule pressurization followed by hatch opening and ingress at 11:08 AM CT; NG-11 brings approximately 3426 kg of cargo to ISS.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM): As part of regularly scheduled preventative maintenance, the crew performed a manual Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) flush tank fill.  By using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as the burp, they depressurized the flush water tank and water valve block to protect the dose pump; this pump is critical as it injects the pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Live Event: Today Nick Hague participated in a live PAO event with Military Officers Magazine and recorded a downlink message for the “Spot the Station” feature on NASA TV.

Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) is the nation’s largest and most influential association of military officers and today’s interview will be used in a future article highlighting Nick’s contributions in space.
As the third brightest object in the night sky, the International Space Station can often be seen with the naked eye when flying over the Earth at dusk or dawn. The “Spot the Station” feature will highlight today’s message and help users search for the ISS when it flies over their location.

Adlink Mini PC Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew replaced suspect Adlink Mini PC S/N 1001 with new unit in preparation for the Thermal Amine payload launching on SpaceX-17; the old unit failed its checkout and was stowed for later troubleshooting. 
Completed Task List Activities:

EVA Airlock Restow Part II.

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


SSRMS Cygnus Install and CBM Bolt Loading
Cygnus Hatch Open and Ingress Support

Saturday, 4/20:
Payloads:


Cold Stowage transfers
NanoRacks PF1
Rodent Research transfers
Repository
Tangolab-1 ops

Systems:

Cygnus cargo transfer
Cygnus OBT emergency procedure review

Sunday, 4/21:
Payloads:


Repository
Standard Measures

Systems:

Crew off duty

Monday, 4/22:
Payloads:


Fluid Shifts prep
LSG Crew Restraint Install/Remove
Rodent Research MM-1 & 2
Radi-N2 Neutron Field Study
Polar Express Rack Install & Checkout

Systems:

WWB bus split and WSTA fill
UPA Recycle Tank Fill Part 3 

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Reminder 2F HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection
Standard Measures Post-sleep Questionnaire
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection 25 Minutes Subject
HRF Generic Saliva Collection 10 Minutes
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Operator
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval And Insertion Operations
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Configuration
Robotics Workstation (RWS) Configuration
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Spin Conclude
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Sample MELFI Insertion
Verifying cover closure on SM windows
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
USOS Window Shutter Close
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Powerup
Robotic Workstation (RWS) High Definition (HD) Monitor Downlink
Cygnus PCS Command and PROX Link Verification
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
Cygnus R-BAR Approach
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) weekly conference
PILOT-T. Preparation for Experiment
Cleaning ВБП1, ВБП2 fans screens
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops
Cygnus R-BAR Approach
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Cygnus Capture
Current converter fan (ВПТ) screen cleaning
ISS Experience Node 1 Setup
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Remote Workstation Monitor HD Video Downlink Deactivation RWS.
JEM Common Gas Support Equipment (CGSE) Lower CO2 Gas Supply Start
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops
Adlink Mini PC Swap
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Two-Phase Flow Experiment Equipment Valves Setting
Move 72P US temp stowed CTBs
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
ISS Experience Introduction Recording
ISS Experience Record Conclude
PCS Laptop Relocate
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
PCS Laptop Relocate
PILOT-T. Closeout Ops
Atmosphere Purification Unit (БОА) R&R in Vozdukh Atmosphere Revitalization Subsystem [СОА]. Configure Electrical Connections
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
СОЖ maintenance
ISS Experience Recording Preparation
Cygnus/Node 1 Pressurization and Leak Check Preparation
Monitoring [ОНА] high-gain antenna positioning for Broad-Band Communication System (ШСС) Test
Node 1 Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Removal
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules Sample Exchange
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules Historical Documentation Photos
ISS Experience Microphone Don
Cygnus/Node 1 Pressurization and Leak Check
RYASKA. Photography of plant cultivation chambers
Atmosphere Purification Unit (БОА) R&R in Vozdukh Atmosphere Revitalization Subsystem [СОА]. Mating Х12 Х11 telemetry connectors
Evacuation of Vozdukh [СОА] (start)
Atmosphere Purification Unit (БОА) R&R in Vozdukh Atmosphere Revitalization Subsystem [СОА]
Brine/urine transfer from ЕДВ to Progress 440 [AO] Rodnik H2O tank 2 and flushing H2O Tank 2 connector В2 and H2O Tank 1 connector В1
Evacuation of Vozdukh [СОА] (end)
П-16 Absorber Replacement
Photo TV High Definition (HD) Cygnus Video Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config JEM Setup
Atmosphere Purification Unit (БОА) R&R in Vozdukh Atmosphere Revitalization Subsystem [СОА]. Vozdukh Activation.
Node 1 Nadir to Cygnus Vestibule Outfitting, Part 1
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
Atmosphere Purification Unit (БОА) R&R in Vozdukh Atmosphere Revitalization Subsystem [СОА]. Installation of LIV hardware.
Воздух R&R
Node 1 Nadir to Cygnus Vestibule Outfitting Part 2
БД-2 Exercise, Day 3
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Rotation and Closeout
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Cygnus Ingress
Cygnus (NG-11) Air Sampling using АК-1М sampler prior to Air Duct Installation
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
Cygnus Cargo Photo
ISS Experience Microphone Doff
VELO Exercise, Day 3
БД-2 Exercise, Day 2
ISS Experience Hardware Relocate
ISS Experience Microphone Doff
Rodent Research Habitat Install
HRF Generic Urine Collection Setup
Restow Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK)
Rodent Research Habitat Install
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Stow
Rodent Research Habitat Install

 