
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile and Repository):  A 54S crewmember collected urine samples for his FD15 sessions of the Biochem Profile and Repository investigations.

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. The repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS):  The crew captured images today of the Nile delta at night.  EIISS captures a series of videos showcasing targets around the world as seen from the ISS. These videos will be integrated into a product for later release. 
Space Pup:  Today the crew inserted Space Pup samples into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  The Space Pup investigation is designed to support the study of the effects of cosmic radiation on mammalian reproduction.  Freeze-dried mouse spermatozoa are kept on board the ISS and exposed to cosmic radiation for various lengths of time before they are returned to Earth. 
Payload Network Attached Stowage (PL NAS):  The crew replaced the failed PL NAS shell with a spare unit today.  The PL NAS consists of a chassis housing 5 hard disk drives.  It provides storage for users like payload laptops that need updated anti-virus software definition files. The Invitrobone payload that arrived on the SpaceX-14 vehicle will need the PL NAS storage space to stage its software prior to operations.
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL):  The crew removed the CO2 Incubator from the SABL this morning and inserted Metabolic Tracking Thaw pouches. SABL supports a wide variety of experiments in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has a temperature controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and experiments. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 for cell cultures. 
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The crew removed and replaced manifold bottles today to support the ongoing microgravity combustion research operations in the CIR.  The ACME experiments being performed in the CIR include five independent studies of gaseous flames.  The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth.  Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Story Time From Space: A crewmember participated in the Story Time from Space project by reading “The Mission to Catarina” today while being videotaped.  The recording will be downlinked and used for educational purposes. Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crew members read science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books on orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials. 
Water Recovery and Management (WRM) Payload Water Reservoir (PWR) Consolidation: Today the crew consolidated condensate from seven PWRs into one condensate Common Water Container (CWC) using the condensate transfer pump. These PWRs will be returned to Earth for refurbishment and future use.  Approximately 35 liters of water were recovered from these PWRs. 
Acoustic Monitoring:  After wearing acoustic monitors for 24 hours, the crew replaced batteries within the units prior to deploying them to three locations within ISS for static acoustics monitoring. The acoustic monitoring sessions gather data to characterize any changes to the acoustic environment throughout the station.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collection: The crew will collect water samples from the PWD for in-flight and post-flight microbial and coliform analysis. This is a regularly scheduled activity that is performed multiple times throughout the expedition to verify water quality. 
On Board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Response Simulation: All crewmembers and ground control centers are currently participating in an exercise to practice emergency responses.  The crew will be performing the following:

Physically translate through ISS to the appropriate response locations to visualize the use of station equipment and interfaces.
Practice procedure execution and associated decision making based on cues provided by the simulator.
Practice communication and coordination with Mission Control Center (MCC)-Houston and MCC-Moscow as required for a given emergency scenario.

Following the exercise, the crew and ground teams will participate in a review to discuss results and address questions and comments. 
Dragon Robotic Operations: Monday night, the Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite (WS) 2 to WS 8. The robotics team setup the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) in preparation for the Pump Flow Control System (PFCS) R&R.  Upon maneuvering the SPDM ORU Tool Changeout Mechanism (OTCM), it was observed in the downlink video that there is a small EVA Nomex handle attached to the PFCS FSE that was very close to the Launch Lock grapple fixture. This delayed robotic operations while the robotic team assessed and gathered views. They were able to successfully maneuver around the strap and the FSE launch locks were released.  Tonight, controllers will complete FSE lid opening, PFCS removal, and installation of the new PFCS onto the P6 Long Spacer after removal and stowage of the degraded PFCS currently occupying that location. The degraded PFCS will be place into the Dragon trunk later this week for disposal after SpaceX-14 unberth next month.  
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


HRF Generic Urine Collection
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
ISS Emergency OBT Overview
Review Emergency OBT Simulator Functionality
Acoustic Monitor Setup for Static Measurements
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collect
Space Pup Bio Dosimeter Insertion into MELFI
Installation of additional fans to improve thermal conditions of SM Electric Power Supply units 800А.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 System (T2) Monthly Inspection
RFID Embedded RFID Reader Power Cycle
Payload NAS Swap – Part 1
Combustion Integrated Rack Upper Rack Doors Open
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold #2 Bottle Replacement
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
MSG Glove Photo
Story Time Book The Mission to Cataria Read
Photo/TV Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Camera Disassembly
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold #4 Bottle Replacement
Story Time Historical Photo Documentation
Biolab Incubator Cold Spot Sponge Installation
Combustion Integrated Rack Upper Rack Doors Close
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
Biolab Incubator Cold Spot Sponge Photo and Stowage
Training for Emergency Response On-board ISS
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. HAM Radio Session with Vologda branch of Rostelecom
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Drill Conference
HRF Empty Kit Prepack
Polar Desiccant Swap
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Water Recovery and Management Payload Water Reservoir Consolidation
Crew Prep for PAO
Environmental Health System (EHS) Coliform Water Processing
HRF Generic Urine Collection Stow
TV conference with the participants of the Space Lesson (Ku + S-band)
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Payload NAS Swap – Part 2
CONSTANTA-2. Cassette removal from ТБУ-В and setup on panel for 1-hour warmup
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
CONSTANTA-2. Preparation and Execution 5.
ISS Medical Accessories Kit (IMAK) Unpack from SPX-14
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Stow
EMU Helmet unpack and repack for return
Extravehicular Activity Virtual Reality Trainer Cargo Transfer Bag Audit
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab, CO2 Incubator Removal
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
EIISS Crew RED Camera Target Operations
Metabolic Tracking Thaw Systems SABL Insertion
Mouse Stress Defense Item Gathering
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
Payload NAS Swap – Part 3
Soyuz 737 Samsung PC Battery check and recharge (if charge level is below 80%)
Soyuz 738 Samsung PC Battery check and recharge (if charge level is below 80%)

Completed Task List Activities

None 

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


N3 CDRA Activation
Lab MCA Full Calibration
Lab CDRA to Standby
SpX External Cargo Ops 

