04-14-2009April 20, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 04/14/09  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  FE-2 Wakata started the day with the daily download of the accumulated data of the SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight) experiment from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of another week-long session with SLEEP, his second.     [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Wakata performed IFM (Inflight Maintenance) in the “Destiny” Lab by removing & replacing an RPCM (Remote Power Controller Module, LAD22B_A) in the Avionics Rack 3.   [To gain sufficient clearance for the R&R, the FE-2 was allotted additional time on his schedule for removing and later replacing the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) “Kabin” enclosure.]  Later, after closing the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) door in the Saibo Rack to provide room in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Koichi set up two high-definition G1 camcorders and performed the JAXA educational experiment SPACE CLOTHES, in  two parts.   Later in the day, the CBEF door was opened again to reduce the humidity level in the incubator.  The G1 cameras were stored.    [SPACE CLOTHES investigates the restriction of movement by clothes in micro-G and obtains basic data.  The two sets documented Koichi with and without leg restrictions, with the results entered into a questionnaire.  Wakata is also testing a new line of clothing developed for JAXA by the Japan Women's University in Tokyo that is threaded with anti-bacterial and deodorizing materials.  In addition to odor control, the clothes are designed to absorb water, insulate the body and dry quickly. They also are flame-resistant and anti-static, as well as comfortable and attractive.  Shuttle crewmember Takao Doi already tested the new clothing in space during his flight.]  Also in the JPM, FE-1 Barratt configured the JAXA biomedical experiment BIORHYTHM and the digital Walk Holter ECG (Electrocardiograph) and then started data recording.  In the Lab, the FE-1 temporarily rotated the CEVIS cycle ergometer to stowed position (to clear his work area), then reviewed setup & activation procedures for the new AgCam (Agricultural Camera) payload, discussed installation & operations with the ground support team at the University of North Dakota, then unstowed & installed the payload components in the Lab science window, followed by loading the AgCam application software on the ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6) A31p laptop from a DVD.  CEVIS was re-installed later in the day.   [The Agricultural Camera is a multi-spectral camera for use on the ISS as a payload of the WORF (Window Observational Research Facility).  Primary AgCam system components include an Imaging System Assembly, a Base Mount Pointing Assembly, a Power/Data Controller, associated cabling and support items, and a NASA-supplied A31p laptop and power supply.  It will take frequent images, in visible and infrared light, of vegetated areas on the Earth, principally of growing crops, rangeland, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  Images will be delivered within 2 days directly to requesting farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land for which they are responsible.  Images will also be shared with educators for classroom use. The Agricultural Camera was built and will be operated primarily by students and faculty at the University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, ND.]  Mike Barratt had ~50 min set aside to perform routine preventive maintenance (inspection & screen cleaning) on the FGB ventilation system.   [Replaced were filters in the PS1 & PS2 dust collectors, with changes logged in the IMS (Inventory Management System).]  CDR Padalka conducted an inventory of the food supply subsystem (SPP), verifying contents (with utensils) in containers SPP-1 & SPP-4-1 in the FGB.  After yesterday’s successful firmware upgrading and comm/data link testing on the Russian TsVM-1,3 (Central Computers 1 & 3) in the SM (Service Module), Gennady today made preparations for tomorrow’s planned replacement of two failed computers, the TsVM-2 & the TVM-1 (Terminal Computer 1).    [Planned are R&R of TVM-1 and installation of TsVM-2 at its nominal location.  Full redundancy will be restored on all six computers (three TsVMs & three TVMs) later in the week if the R&Rs and testing are successful.]  Koichi Wakata conducted a run with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), his first onboard session, by logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and performing the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.    [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]  Padalka switched the Vozdukh CO2 (Carbon Dioxide) scrubber to its nominal manual mode 5.  FE-2 Wakata conducted the standard sensor calibration on the CSA-O2 (Compound Specific Analyzer-Oxygen) units #1043 & #1059, delivered on 1J, using a calibration adapter (#1001) brought up on Progress 30P.  Meanwhile, FE-1 Barratt went through the daily procedure of flushing the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) ambient line with ~50mL of water (into a towel/Ziploc bag).  PWD water is currently cleared only for hygienic use.     [While final analysis of the PWD sample results on the ground is still pending, experts recommend keeping water flowing in the line daily to help control microbial growth.  The flushing will be done daily unless at least this amount has been dispensed for other activities during the day).]  FE-2 Wakata performed the regular changeout of the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer)’s WWB (Waste Water Bag), then conducted the periodic WPA (Water Processor Assembly) sample analysis in the TOCA after first priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.  Results were transferred to SSC-7 (Station Support Computer 7) via USB drive for downlink and the data were also logged for calldown.   [The current procedure is a work-around for TOCA’s failed catalyst.]  In the DC1 Docking Compartment, Gennady had two hours to replace electrical umbilicals and connectors for the new Orlan-MK spacesuit.  In the Lab, Koichi first deactivated ALTEA DOSI (Anomalous Long Term Effects on Astronauts Dosimetry) and moved it aside, then accessed the OGS (Oxygen Generation System) to turn it off, after disconnecting the O2 outlet hose and performing the usual H2 (hydrogen) sensor purge to remove water vapor from the sensor.  ALTEA was then swung back in front of OGS and bungee-secured.  Gennady performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  The CDR also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Padalka, Barratt and Wakata had their PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Gennady at ~10:55am, Mike at ~2:00pm, Koichi at ~2:15pm.  Gennady & Dr. Mike again had an hour to themselves for general orientation (station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting station residence, if they choose to take it.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Mumbai, India Aerosol (very large cities are now known to give off plumes of air pollution haze.  Looking left towards the limb to document any haze the crew could see in the vicinity of Mumbai.  Trying to shoot margins of the haze mass, even if margins lie outside the formal site boundary), and South Tibesti Megafans, Chad (two large megafans/inland deltas have been laid down by rivers flowing off the Tibesti Mts. during wetter times in the Sahara Desert.  The crew was asked to shoot the nearer delta with overlapping images, to document ancient stream patterns.  These patterns may be a viable new analog for enigmatic sinuous ridges on Mars [in the interesting region where the rover Opportunity is operating].  Looking right. Visual cues were a patch of light-toned rocks near the apex of the nearer delta).   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  <http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/>  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  