
STP-H5 (Space Test Program) ICE (Innovative Coatings Experiment) photos: The crew took several still camera photos of the ICE strip from the Cupola and JEM Window locations.  These photos are used to document the current state of the ICE experiment once per quarter.  The harsh radiation and extreme temperatures of space can corrode the paint and coatings that protect spacecraft exteriors, potentially damaging a spacecraft’s hull.  Optical coatings are also important for robotic and human navigators, who would rely on specialized markings to capture or repair spacecraft.  The ICE experiment, one the thirteen on STP-H5, exposes a set of eight new and two reference coatings to the low Earth orbit environment. Visual and photographic observations are made periodically to evaluate the optical and color stability of each of the coatings relative to the reference standard.
Transparent Alloys: Following a successful series of science runs, the crew removed and stowed the Transparent Alloys hardware from the MSG.  Transparent Alloys is an ESA research project on Material Science performed in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). A set of 5 experiments takes place in Transparent Alloys to improve the understanding of melting-solidification processes in plastics, which usually serves to gain experience on physical phenomena involved in metallic alloy processing. Of the 5 experiments, the experiment series recently completed was the Solidification along an Eutectic Path in Ternary Alloys (SETA) investigation.  Its goals are the observation of the microstructure formation to analyze different aspects, and the improvement and validation of numerical simulations of the eutectic microstructure formation in a ternary alloy. 
Systems
ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization Onboard Training (OBT): The crew completed the Emergency Hardware OBT which is designed to familiarize the crew with the locations of equipment and the positions of valves used in emergencies as well as practice communication from the Russian Segment (RS) modules in case of emergency.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove and Replace (R&R):  Today the crew R&R’d the Pre-Treat Tank as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


N3 MCA Zero Calibration – Daily for the first week after activation
S-Band Index Change
CCS Daily File Downlinks

