
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM): Over the weekend, Robotics Ground Controllers transferred BEAM from the SpX-8 Dragon trunk to the Node 3 Aft Port.  Activities included Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) prep for mate and inspection, BEAM extraction, maneuver to install position, CBM capture, and BEAM release. The crew and ground utilized the Node 3 Aft Active CBM to capture and bolt BEAM to the ISS. BEAM inflation is currently planned for late May.
 
Cell Mechanosensing 3 (CMS-3) Operations and Closeout: Over the weekend, the remaining microscope observations for the JAXA Cell Mechanosensing-3 investigation were completed. Today, the crew performed closeout activities by removing the Observation and Measurement Experiment Units from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF). The CMS-3 investigation identifies gravity sensors in skeletal muscle cells to develop countermeasures to muscle atrophy. Scientists believe that the lack of mechanical stress from gravity causes tension fluctuations in the plasma membrane of skeletal muscle cells which changes the expression of key proteins and genes and allows muscles to atrophy.
 
Genes in Space: Crewmembers completed activation and checkout prior to performing a hardware test to prepare for the Genes in Space exercises planned for this week.  The Genes in Space investigation is a winning student-designed experiment to test whether the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) can be used to study DNA alterations aboard the ISS.  Spaceflight causes numerous changes to the human body, including alterations in DNA and a weakened immune system. Understanding whether these two processes are linked is important for safeguarding crew health, but DNA technology that can track these changes is relatively untested in space.
 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Microchannel Diffusion Configuration: Crewmembers configured the LMM for the Microchannel Diffusion investigation. The Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE) sample will be removed from the Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC) prior to the Bio Base being installed into the LMM AFC and the Diffusion Plate being installed onto the Bio Base. The objective of Microchannel Diffusion is to provide insight into how microparticles interact with the surface of confining microchannels in the absence of gravitational forces. The analysis focuses on how physical and electrostatic confinement affect the diffusive transport of microparticles in microchannels. Insight into confined diffusive transport is relevant for “on- Earth” applications including drug delivery, molecular sieving and particle filtration. The study provides an understanding of microparticle diffusive transport, which can be important for future technological applications for space exploration.
 
Intracranial Pressure & Visual Impairment (IPVI): The crew participated in observations as part of the IPVI payload.  Recent studies have shown some crewmembers on the International Space Station experience swelling of the optic nerve, which can affect their vision. This may be because of elevated intracranial pressure, or pressure inside the head, which happens in microgravity. The investigation aims to confirm that eye abnormalities, such as swelling of the optic nerve, happen in crewmembers whose cranial pressure has increased. The investigation’s non-invasive measurement methods could be used for early detection of this pressure change.
 
Energy Preparation: The crew gathered the PFS Face Mask Kit and the food kit needed to support the upcoming European Space Agency (ESA) Energy experiment. The Energy investigation assesses energy requirements of astronauts on long-duration missions. This is important for future planning of longer-duration missions, to the Moon and Mars for example, in order to launch sufficient food supplies (but not too much), which have a positive impact on mission costs and goals.
 
Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Installation: The Small Fine Arm (SFA) Airlock Attachment Mechanism (SAM) was installed on the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table (ST) followed by MPEP installation on the SAM in preparation for Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Demonstration (JSSOD)-M1 deploy planned for April 27. Following completion, the Slide Table was retracted back into the JEMAL. MPEP is a new, transportable platform which interfaces with JEMAL and JEMRMS. Electrical Mechanical Grapple Fixture (EMGF) is attached on the MPEP so that any payload on the MPEP can be transported anywhere within JEMRMS reachable envelope. In addition, power, video and communication interface is available via EMGF. The MPEP plays a key role in enhancing ISS utilization using JEM unique capability with the JEMAL and JEMRMS.
 
Electromagnetic Levitator (EML) Preparation: The crew prepared the EML facility for the upcoming EML Batch 1 exercise. They installed and removed the EML reprogramming cable after the Limit Parameter Sets of the EML Sample Chamber were reprogrammed by ground teams. The crew also changed the measurement mode of the EML high speed camera. EML is designed for containerless materials processing in space. EML is a facility composed of 4 inserts installed in the European Drawer Rack (EDR). Samples are installed in a dedicated Sample Chamber that is attached to EML and will be replaced by new Sample Chambers for new experiment batches.
 
On Board Training (OBT) Crew Health Care System (CheCS) Drill: The 46S crew completed this OBT which provides the opportunity to review procedures, hardware and communication methods necessary to manage a medical emergency. Emergency medical equipment was deployed and the crew practicef CPR positioning to ensure familiarity with procedure execution.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: The Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) will walk off from the Lab Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) to Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF 1.  The Mobile Transporter (MT) will be translated from Worksite (WS)6 to WS2 and the SSRMS will begin a survey of the clearances between the starboard Crew and Equipment Translation Aid (CETA) cart and the starboard Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ).  The survey will confirm adequate clearance between the CETA cart and the SARJ when the MT is at WS1.
 
Orbital-6 (OA-6) Cargo Transfer Status: The crew has completed 19:35 hours of cargo transfer. Remaining time needed for completion is 32.51 hours.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HRF Urine Sample Collection
HRF Urine Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Blood Sample Collection
Microchannel Diffusion (MDE). Sample Retrieval and Temporary Stowage
EML – cable setup for reprogramming
HRF Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
FIR Rack Doors Open
Auxiliary Laptop Anti-Virus Update / r/g 8247
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Configuration
CONSTANTA-2. Preparation and Execution 5 r/g 1967
Assistance with БУПТ-1М swapout (removal of 800A module) / r/g 1971
On MCC GO Swapout of Current Converter Controller БУПТ-1М modules r/g 1971
HRF Blood Sample Collection Closeout Ops
XF305 Camcorder Setup
HRF Sample Insertion into MELFI
JEMAL  Slide Table extension
HRF Closeout Ops
JEM Airlock Slide Table Operation
ARED  Cylinder Flywheel Cleaning
Replacement of CO2 Filter Unit ИК0501
Airlock Attachment Mechanism (SAM) installation to JEM Airlock (AL) Slide Table
FIR Rack Door Close
Airlock Attachment Mechanism (SAM) installation to JEM Airlock (AL) Slide Table (assistance)
UDOD. Experiment Ops with DYKNANIYE-1 and SPRUT-2 Sets r/g 1969
СОЖ Maintenance
CIR – Equipment Removal
REM. Comm check
Genes in Space (GIS). Work Area preparation for Payload use
JEM Airlock Releasing Capture Mechanism
Installation of Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Assembly (MPEP) Part 1
Installation of Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Assembly (MPEP)  Assistance
MPEP Ops in JEM Airlock
CMS3 Closeout Ops
Installation of Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Assembly (MPEP) Part 2
HRF Urine Sample Collection
JEMAL Slide Table Retraction
HRF Sample Insertion into MELFI
Camcorder setup to capture T2 exercise
HRF Equipment stowage after sample collection
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 7 / r/g 1970
CBCS Equipment stow
ENERGY Hardware Pre-gather
On MCC GO Mating БУПТ-1М telemetry connectors (pos. А407 and pos. А401) r/g 1971
EML Opening Gas Valves
EML Cable Removal
EML – Lens replacement
IPVI – Photography
CheCS OBT
Swapout of Current Converter Controller БУПТ-1М modules r/g 197
RS internal lighting system audit (SM, MRM1, MRM2, DC1) / r/g 1960
GIS. Start hardware test
SPHEROIDS KUBIK Temperature Check
Intracranial Pressure & Visual Impairment (IPVI) Private Medical Conference
Photography of Soyuz landing sites / r/g 1973
HAM radio session from Columbus
FSL adapter optical cable installation
Assistance with БУПТ-1М swapout (installation of 800A module) / r/g 1971
DRGN- kits unpack
Stow Video Equipment to capture T2 Exercise
MRM2 comm config to support the P/L Ops / Communications System [РТК]
COULOMBIAN CRYSTAL. Experiment Ops r/g 1972
GIS. End of hardware test
EMU backpack R&R
N3A hatch and ARED foot plate gap assessment
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops / Communications System [РТК]
COULOMBIAN CRYSTAL. Copy and Downlink Data / r/g 1972
GIS. Hardware Stowage
DRAGON. Transfer ops
URISYS Hardware Setup r/g 1974
Node 2 Camcorder troubleshooting
RS internal lighting system audit (SM, MRM1, MRM2, DC1) / r/g 1960
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
Preparing for Antivirus scan on Auxiliary Computer Laptops / r/g 8247

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

SAM/MPEP installation
MSS ops
Nominal ground commanding

 
