
Payloads:
Investigating Structure and Function of the Eye (ISAFE): Electroretinography data collection was performed on a crewmember using the Diagnosis Software and Desktop Streamer with remote guidance. ISAFE measures eye, brain, and blood vessel changes to determine whether Spaceflight Associated Neuro-Ocular Syndrome (SANS) varies with mission length, whether these changes recover when crew members return to Earth, and how long any potential recovery takes. Results could help predict eye changes on future long-duration spaceflights, such as trips to Mars, and support development of methods to protect astronauts’ eyes.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham contact was initiated with Mohammad Bin Rashid Space Centre, Dubai, UAE. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
KEyence Research MIcroscope Testbed (KERMIT): Slide eight was inserted into KERMIT for processing. The slide was later removed from KERMIT and the unit was powered down. These slides are used to check out the KERMIT hardware prior to the Axiom-2 mission. The KERMIT commercial microscope is an all-in-one fluorescence microscope system available for biological, physical, and material science research. KERMIT is housed in the Material Science Research Rack (MSRR) aboard the space station.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: The crew performed ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) of the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) and the Airlock cooling water loops. Additionally, conductivity readings and a water sample were taken from the cooling loop following the 70 minute scrub. Next, the crew checked out the Onboard Spacesuit Control Assembly (OSCA) caps and updated the EMU 3009 EMU Data Recorder (EDAR). The crew then deployed new the EVA Systems book and cuff checklists, as well as updated the Crewlock depress/repress cue card. Furthermore, the crew performed EMU leak checks, EMU water recharges, and EMU Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garment (LVCG) water fill.
Power Supply 120 (PS-120) and Alternating Current (AC) Inverter Deploy: The crew deployed a new PS-120 Junction Box and 120 VDC to 120 VAC Inverter at NOD2 UOP4-J3. This activity was performed to support the CapiSorb Visible System (payload), as well as future Payloads and System operations.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Operations: The crew set up the drain of the installed Recycle Tank to the Brine Processor using the Brine Processor Transfer Hose. After set up, the ground team initiated the drain using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following that, the crew terminated the drain of the installed Recycle Tank to the Brine Processor then repositioned the fill/drain valve to fill. In the next step of the process, the crew swapped the ЕДВ in the offload ЕДВ spot of the UTS. Finally, the crew configured the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve for UPA processing. The UPA, part of the Regen ECLSS System, produces distillate from a mixture of pretreated urine, urine flush water, and Crew Health Care System wastewater. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

EMU Data Recorder Operations
EDAR Flight Software Updates on S/N 1009
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain Support
EMU Loop Scrub and Water Recharge Support
ISAFE Optical Coherence Tomography and Electroretinography Measures Support

