
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom-1 (Ax-1): 
Public Affairs Office (PAO) and Imagery Activities: The Ax-1 crew performed an imagery data transfer of all remaining images from Axiom’s D6 Nikon Camera and participated in a live farewell ceremony with the ISS crew.   
Ax-1 Undock Preparations: The Ax-1 crew performed cargo packing in preparation for undock; however, today’s undock and landing were waived off due to poor weather at the landing site. Teams are assessing weather and phasing for future undock opportunities.
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): A visual inspection was performed of the CAL moderate temperature loop (MTL) coolant hose, and any fluid observed was cleaned up. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Crew Interactive MObile companioN (CIMON): The crew recorded a video tour of the ISS in German. The Pilot Study with CIMON is a technology demonstration project and an observational study that aims to obtain the first insights into the effects on crew support by an artificial intelligence (AI), in terms of efficiency and acceptance during long-term missions in space. Spaceflight missions put the crew under a substantial amount of stress and workload, and it is thought that AI could provide operational support to crewmembers.
Collapsible Contingency Urinal (CCU): As part of an on-going series of tests, the crew used the CCU system. The CCU is exploration hardware flown to ISS as a tech demo. The approach includes a fractal wetting design that incorporates smart capillary fluidics. This work could have a broad impact on capillary-based fluid management on spacecraft and Earth.
Lumina: A crewmember used Bluetooth to transfer data from Lumina device and to change parameters via the EveryWear App on the crew’s tablet. Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina) is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons, or neutrons.
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (SCEM): A crewmember connected the SCEM Gas Quick Disconnect (QD) to the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Gas QD. The SCEM is designed to investigate the oxygen concentration required to sustain a flame over solid fuels. It is also possible to obtain the limiting electric current caused by self-ignition of the insulated wires due to short-circuit. Combustion characteristics of solid materials in the microgravity environment where no buoyancy-induced convection occurs will be identified, as well as the effect of gravity on the combustion limit of solid materials, through studies by SCEM.
Photocatalyst (Ax-1): A crewmember performed a filter check on the Photocatalyst Device and Photocatalyst Control Device. Photocatalyst during the Ax-1 PAM demonstrates using a photocatalyst device to clean the cabin air and remove odor caused by volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The device converts VOCs into carbon dioxide and water. The device and a non-photocatalyst control device will operate for at least four weeks before returning to Earth for analysis of the photocatalyst device’s effectiveness.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew conducted routine maintenance to R&R the UR and IF. As part of the R&R, the crew cleaned the WHC power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance. 
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Transfer and Battery Stowage: Today, the RS crew uninstalled the Lithium-Ion Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (LREBA) batteries from the Orlan suits used in yesterday’s RS EVA #52 and handed them over to the USOS crew to charge. After receiving the batteries, the USOS crew installed the batteries in the battery stowage compartment. 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collect and Analysis: As part of regular maintenance, the crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the PWD for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a TOCA analysis that measures the amounts of organic constituents in the potable water. The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations.
WHC Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

LAB Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Zero Calibration
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain/Fill Support
Crew Dragon Endeavour Undock Support Commanding [Deferred]

