
Payloads
AC Touch: Per standard procedure, the crew touched both the coated and uncoated coupons for this long-term investigation.  Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM):  Following multiple relocations to gather particulate data in different areas, the crew removed the APM from its Node 2 location and stowed it.  Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. The Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM) demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility – Left (CBEF-L): The crew performed multiple activities related to the continuation of the configuration G checkout.  The ground team is still assessing the telemetry from the system in the new configuration.  CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Spacesuit Evaporation Rejection Flight Experiment (SERFE): The crew performed a periodic sampling of the SERFE experiment water.  The sampling involves pH measurement, microbial assessment, and water to be returned to the ground for further analysis.  SERFE demonstrates a new technology to remove heat from spacesuits and maintain appropriate temperatures for crew members and equipment during space walks. The technology uses evaporation of water for cooling. The investigation determines whether microgravity affects performance and evaluates the technology’s effect on contamination and corrosion of spacesuit material.
T2AR:  The crew logged into the sidekick HoloLens system in preparation for the experiment later this week.  Autonomous Systems and Operations conducts tests using augmented reality to help crew members perform inspection and maintenance on the Combined Operational Load Bearing External Resistance Treadmill (COLBERT). The ability to perform such tasks without assistance from Mission Control is vital for future space exploration such as a mission to Mars, where significant time delays occur in communications between space and ground. Using augmented reality to guide astronauts through complex spacecraft maintenance and repair activities also reduces the time needed for training and task performance.
Vascular Echo: The crew set up the Cardiolab Portable Doppler and related hardware, and performed a scan of the femoral artery in the right leg.  Cardiac and Vessel Structure and Function with Long-Duration Space Flight and Recovery (Vascular Echo) examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone.
Systems
Crew Alternate Sleep Accommodation (CASA): The crew began part 1 of CASA installation at the Columbus 104 ZSR rack last week. Installation part 2 began today. Unfortunately, the ground strap that was provided is too short so the crew is searching for a longer strap.
Crew Quarters (CQ) 9V Battery Terminal: The crew repaired damaged CQ 9V battery terminals. They left the old hardware in place to be used as a structural hold but spliced in new battery connectors.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Maintenance: The crew removed and replaced the Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) in the WHC. This is part of routine maintenance.
Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of the 64S crew, all crew members participated in this review of priorities during emergency response to achieve safety of the crew followed by achieving safe configuration of the ISS. Topics covered included crew accountability, escape vehicle, ISS Commander responsibility and communication and coordination.
Completed Task List Activities:

PMA CP swap
WHC KTO replace

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Payloads ops support
CASA install support
SSRMS maneuver to translate
MT translation from WS2 to WS6
SPDM unstow/BDU 60 day checkout
SPDM stow
SSRMS Elbow Pitch Joint test

