
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom-1 (Ax-1): 
Public Affairs Office (PAO) and Payload Activities: Multiple NASA-sponsored and ESA-sponsored PAO events were performed, including one PAO event between L. Conner and CNBC, and 13 Ice Cube Media Set events, one of which was shortened due to technical difficulties. The Ax-1 crew completed ISS National Lab sponsored payload activities including: Neurowellness, Tumor Oraganoids, Nano ISS Antenna, SLAMMD, CRISPR, Fluidic Space Optics, and Holoportation. M. Pathy completed the CEVIS handover to prepare for the future BioMonitor payload activity using CEVIS.
Payloads:
Analyzing Interferometer for Ambient Air-2 (ANITA-2): Air samples were manually collected from an assigned ISS location for chemical analysis by the ANITA-2 hardware. ANITA-2 is a compact gas analyzer which can analyze and quantify 33 trace contaminants in the atmosphere aboard the ISS automatically. ANITA-2 can also detect the presence of unknown substances which can be evaluated later on the ground.
Nano ISS Antenna (Ax-1): The Ax-1 crew calibrated and photographed the Nano ISS Antenna after the antenna was deployed. Nano ISS Antenna tests deployment of a folded antenna used to provide high bandwidth communications. Miniaturized satellite electronics and sensors can provide valuable scientific and navigation capabilities, but small, simple antennas cannot transmit large quantities of data, limiting the usability of small satellites.
Holoportation Behavioral (Ax-1): An Ax-1 crewmember completed a second two-way Holoportation session. Aexa’s Holographic Teleportation Behavioral (Holoportation Behavioral) demonstrates two-way communications between Ax-1 PAM crew and the ground using a mixed-reality application. The technology includes a HoloLens 2 Artificial Reality headset and HoloWizard mixed reality application to provide users 360-degree holographic images of each other. This capability represents a significant advancement in communication for remote settings.
Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) (Ax-1): The Ax-1 crew removed and trashed a plate from the NanoRacks Plate Reader. CRISPR is a genome editing system that allows its users to detect and manipulate specific DNA and RNA sequences in living cells of diverse species. This technology could provide rapid and accurate detection of pathogens and contaminants on future long-term space missions.
Fluidic Space Optics (Ax-1): The Ax-1 crew injected various types of liquid polymer into bounding frames and cured them to create optical lenses inside the Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG).  An ISS crewmember assisted in setup of the LSG, Fluidic Space Optics hardware, and photo documentation.  Fluidic Space Optics, studies liquid behavior in microgravity. It examines how this environment affects deployment and solidification of liquid polymers into optical components, serving as a proof of concept for large scale liquid space telescopes. The investigation also provides an educational demonstration of the physics of fluid mechanics in microgravity.
Modeling Tumor Organoids (Ax-1): The Ax-1 crew performed microscopy imagery of samples. Modeling Tumor Organoids demonstrates processes for on-orbit pre-cancer and cancer cell culture, confocal fluorescence microscopy, and real-time data transfer in support of future pre-cancer and cancer stem cell research. The investigation seeks to develop immune dysfunction and pre-cancer stem cell predictive models. Such models could inform and accelerate the development of countermeasures and enhance crew safety on future space missions as well as provide tools for detection of, and therapies for, pre-cancer, cancer and a variety of other diseases on Earth.
Neurowellness in Space (Ax-1): A couple of Ax-1 crewmembers donned the Neurowellness hardware and performed cognitive operations. Neurowellness in Space is a Technology Demonstration into the Viability of Long-term Monitoring of Brain Dynamics and Cognitive Function in Space Eco-Systems using a portable electroencephalography (EEG) headset to measure differences in brain activity in microgravity. The device measures both ongoing and task-related brain activity. Data on microgravity-induced differences in cognitive performance could help predict neural changes on future long-term space missions.
Changes in Sleep and the Microbiome-Ax-1 (Sleep in Space): The Ax-1 crew completed a Sleep questionnaire and took body measurements. Sleep in Space examines sleep quantity and quality of astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. The investigation also examines effects on the human gut microbiome or microbial community and the environmental microbiome, and records factors associated with cardiac and metabolic health, including body mass index, heart rate, and blood glucose. Sleep contributes to overall health and well-being; inadequate sleep can increase risk of certain diseases.
Vascular Aging: The Glucometer, blood tubes, and additional equipment were setup in preparation for the Vascular Aging Glucose Test protocol. Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems: 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Bench Cleat Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew removed and replaces the four mounting cleats on the ARED bench. This task is a standard preventative maintenance activity performed every 3-years.
Battery Pack Testing: Last night two battery packs were recharged using the Universal Battery Charger (UBC). This morning the crew confirmed that the batteries did not recharge as expected, the battery packs have been labeled as “suspect”. The crew started the recharge cycle on two additional battery packs this morning.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Zero Calibration
Four Bed CO2 (4BCO2) System Leak Check
Ax-1 PAO Event

