
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom-1 (Ax-1): 
Commercial, Payload, and Imagery Activities: The Ax-1 crew continued payload operations including Earth Observation, AstroRad, and Snowcone. Mike LA captured recorded video of a commercial activity.
Ax-1 Undock Preparations: Due to the delayed undocking, the Ax-1 crew removed the Polars from the Ax-1 Dragon and re-installed the emergency equipment. Teams are still assessing weather and phasing for future undock opportunities. 
Payloads:
European Physiology Module (EPM) Utility Interface Panel (UIP) Check: In preparation of installation of new vacuum, venting, and gaseous nitrogen (GN2) lines on EPM, accessibility of the pathways and connection points was verified. The EPM is designed to investigate the effects of short- and long-duration spaceflight on the human body and includes equipment for neuroscientific, cardiovascular, and physiological studies.
Hicari-2: The crew gained access to the Gradient Heating Furnace (GHF), removed the Hicari-2 sample from its sample cartridge, and prepared it for later return to the ground. The materials science investigation Growth of Homogeneous SiGe Crystals in Microgravity by the Travelling Liquidous Zone (TLZ) Method (Hicari-2) aims to verify the crystal-growth by the TLZ method and to produce high-quality crystals of Silicon-Germanium (SiGe) semiconductor using the JEM-GHF. Once this method is established, it is expected to be applied for developing more efficient solar cells and semiconductor-based electronics.
Photocatalyst Filter Check (Ax-1/ISS): The Ax-1 crew checked that no items are blocking the intake fans of the Photocatalyst experiment hardware, which is set up in Node 3. Photocatalyst demonstrates the use of a photocatalyst device to clean the cabin air and remove odor caused by volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The device converts VOCs into carbon dioxide and water. The device and a non-photocatalyst control device will operate for at least four weeks before returning to Earth for analysis of the photocatalyst device’s effectiveness.
Snowcone Troubleshooting (Ax-1): The experiment hardware was powered up and observed by the ground team while various commands were sent. Snowcone Cloud Edge Compute Demonstration (Snowcone Ax-1) demonstrates technology to screen private astronaut images and identify those that may contain sensitive information not for public release. The technology includes reduction of large-scale data and processing of data near the source, known as edge computing, capabilities integral to future space exploration. 
Systems:
Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning: In preparation for Crew-3 departure, the crew cleaned the intake and exhaust ducts, fans, and airflow sensors in the Deck Crew Quarters. Due to the large amounts of dust seen during previous CQ cleanings, the crew removed all relevant panels, temporarily stowed them, and then cleaned all areas at once. 
Node 2 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Adapter Cap: The crew inspected the Node 2 MTL Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) sampling adapter luer-lock interface and surrounding area for any foreign object debris (FOD) or liberated ITCS fluid. After not finding any FOD or liberated ITCS fluid, the crew covered the luer-lock interface with a bag. The Node 2 MTL adapter cap was discovered to be missing in December during a sampling activity. Today’s installed cover will act as replacement cap to protect the luer connector from FOD.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): Following their installation during yesterday’s R&R, the UR and IF were R&R’d again today due to unresponsiveness of the UR when being commanded. The crew initially conducted troubleshooting steps to attempt recovery of the UR; however, these steps were unsuccessful, and the R&R was performed. After a functionality test by the crew, WHC was declared fit for use again. 
ESA Trash Pre-gather for Cygnus (NG-17) Disposal: The crew gathered ESA items designated as trash and stowed them in Columbus. These items will be transferred to NG-17 in a future activity. NG-17 is planned to remain at the space station until the end of May before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Camera Port 8 External HD Camera (EHDC) Zoom Troubleshooting
CQ Cleaning Support

