
Rodent Research 3 (RR-3) Operations: The RR-3 access units were inspected with no issues and restocked with food bars. RR-3 studies molecular and physical changes in the musculoskeletal system that happen in space. Results expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space, while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
 
Fluid Shifts Baseline Imaging Preparation: In preparation for this week’s Fluid Shifts exercises, the crew configured hardware and the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) analyzer device which will be used to conduct measurement tests. Fluids Shift is divided into three one-week segments: Dilution Measures, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging using the Russian Chibis Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) device. The experiment measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the International Space Station. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Wet Lab Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) SmartCycler Session: The crew completed the third of four Wet Lab RNA SmartCycler sessions by processing a quality control sample to verify that the SmartCycler operates as expected in microgravity. The Wet Lab RNA SmartCycler is a research platform for conducting real-time quantitative gene expression analysis aboard the ISS. The system enables spaceflight genomic studies involving a wide variety of biospecimen types in the unique microgravity environment of space.
 
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Radio Frequency (RF) Checkout: The C2V2 Comm Units are two fully redundant radios (C2V2 A and C2V2 B) that are planned for use with future visiting vehicles. The units were installed on March 11 in MSS-2 rack in the LAB. Initial activation was performed on April 1. The following tests have been completed.

Monday: A Radio Frequency (RF) pass lasting approximately 8 minutes was completed successfully with appropriate “fill frames” transmitted to the ground. This test provided confirmation that the C2V2 A’s forward and aft antennas are functioning as planned.
Tuesday: Two tests were performed. In the first test, C2V2-A successfully sent a command and GPS Auxiliary Data (GAD) to Electronic System Test Laboratory (ESTL) on the forward link. In the second test, C2V2-A successfully sent GAD, Broadcast Auxiliary Data (BAD) and Audio to ESTL on the forward link and successful performed a comm check on S/G 4 between CAPCOM and ESTL.

Checkout tests are planned daily until May 6.
 
Recycle Fill Tank Assembly (RFTA): On Sunday the RFTA stopped short of empty when draining to a Russian [EDV]. The ball bearing level indication stopped short of full by ½” to ¾”.  The crew proceeded with troubleshooting and completed the RFTA drain to a Temporary Urine and Brine Storage System (TUBSS).  The likely cause was the EDV initially used had some residue brine that caused the RFTA to not drain completely. Ground teams will continue to track the performance of the tanks.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations/HTV-6 Get-ahead Tasks: Yesterday, Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) operations began fully retracting the secondary bolts (H1), breaking torque on the primary bolts (H2), and re-torquing the primary bolts to a lower setting on the S4 batteries. Ground teams operations were successful for 6 bolts, unsuccessful for 2 bolts, and have 4 bolts that remain to be attempted. Later today, re-attempts on bolts 3A2-1 H1, 3A2-2 H1 and initial attempts on the 4 remaining H2 bolts will resume. Order of operation and status is as follows:

3A Battery 3A2-1, Bolt H1 – Not successful
3A Battery 3A2-2, Bolt H1 – Not successful
3A Battery 3A2-1, Bolt H2 – Forward work (Can’t be attempted until H1 released)
3A Battery 3A2-2, Bolt H2 – Forward work (Can’t be attempted until H1 released)
3A Battery 3A1-1, Bolt H1 – Successful
3A Battery 3A1-2, Bolt H1 – Successful
3A Battery 3A1-2, Bolt H2 – Successful
3A Battery 3A1-1, Bolt H2 – Successful
3A Battery 3A3-1, Bolt H1 – Successful
3A Battery 3A3-2, Bolt H1 – Successful
3A Battery 3A3-1, Bolt H2 – Forward work (Ran out of time on 4/25/16)
3A Battery 3A3-2, Bolt H2 – Forward work (Ran out of time on 4/25/16)

 
London Marathon: On Sunday, Peake ran the 26.2-mile London Marathon on the Treadmill 2 (T2) in an estimated time of 3:35:21. He was the official starter of the race and watched BBC coverage of the event while running. He is the second astronaut to run a marathon on the ISS. In 2007, Sunita Williams ran the Boston Marathon on T2.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

ENERGY Diet Log of Breakfast
On MCC Go Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Absorption Cartridge Regeneration (Start)
CORRECTSIA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake / r/g 2047
Transfer from EDV to TUBSS
Greetings Video Recording / r/g 2075
EDV swap
WRS – Water Sample Analysis
Soyuz 720 Samsung Tablet Recharge – Start
VIZIR. Hardware Installation, Software Update and Hardware Calibration r/g 2079 + New SW version
SCYC. Sample retrieval from MERLIN-3 for Session 2
Soyuz 719 Samsung Tablet Recharge – Start
MDE. Sample Retrieval and Temporary Stowage
Tear down EDV to TUBBS transfer setup
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Data Transfer from МКСД HDD (Start) r/g 1595
КОХ1 Technical Specifications Check.  р/г 2057
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Rack Doors Open
Photo TV Camera Set Up
LMM- Plate Change out
Photo/TV
RR- Camcorder Video Setup
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Rack Doors Close
СОЖ Maintenance
HABIT Questionnaires
Fungistat Treatment of FGB Structural and Shell Elements / r/g 2046
RR-MELFI – equipment gather
LS1 and Station Support Computer (SSC) NAS Vent Cleaning
RR- Restock 2
Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Deployment Operations
Grab Sample Container (GSC) Sampling Operations
Soyuz 719 Samsung Tablet Recharge – End
Installation of Six Laser Eye Protection Disks in a Cupola Window for testing
PE at crew discretion
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Data Transfer from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (End) r/g 1595
CORRECTSIA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake / r/g 2047
SPHEROIDS. Temperature Check
Private Medical Conference (Ku+S-band)
Rodent Research Animal Access Unit Clean
Changeout of Replaceable Condensate Lines r/g 2056
Water Resource Management (WRM) Condensate Sampling Initiation
ALGOMETRIYA. Experiment Ops. / r/g 2073
NANO Experiment Ops
Soyuz 720 Samsung Tablet Recharge – End
PAO Setup
ENERGY Diet Log, Lunch
Rodent Research Animal Access Unit Stow
Life on the Station Photo/Video Ops / r/g 2000
Video Equipment Setup for БД-2 Exercise Shooting / r/g 2071
Fluid Shifts CCFP Setup
NanoRacks Pay Load: module 51 photography
DOSETRK Data Entry
PAO Crew Prep
Water Resource Management (WRM) Condensate Sampling Termination
PAO
Water Recovery Management (WRM) Water Balance: first payload water reservoir (PWR) fill
SCYC. Experiment Ops
DRAGON. Cargo Transfer Ops
БД-2 Exercise Video Equipment Teardown and File Downlink / r/g 2071
Water Recovery Management (WRM) Water Balance: second payload water reservoir (PWR) fill
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification for ARED Exercise Recording
DRAGON. Cargo Transfer Ops
SCYC. Video Downlink
Fluid Shifts – Battery Installation
FS – DPOAE Settings Change
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification for ARED Exercise Recording
TOCA – Sample Data Record
IMS Delta File Prep
VZAIMODEISTVIE-2. Experiment Ops / r/g 2074
SCYC. Preparation for Experiment Ops
Dragon – Cargo Operations Conference
Daily Planning Conference (S-band)
On MCC Go Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Absorption Cartridge Regeneration (End)
CORRECTSIA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake / r/g 2047
ENERGY Diet Log of Dinner

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

RR ops
Battery bolt ops
Nominal ground commanding

 
