
Payloads
Space Fibers: The crew performed hardware gather and setup in the Microgravity Science Glovebox for the Space Fibers Reflight mission. Manufacturing Fiber Optic Cable in Microgravity (Space Fibers) evaluates a method for producing fiber optic cable from a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium and aluminum, called ZBLAN, in space. ZBLAN produces glass one hundred times more transparent than silica-based glass, exceptional for fiber optics. Microgravity suppresses two mechanisms that commonly degrade fiber, and previous studies showed improved properties in fiber drawn in microgravity compared to that fabricated on the ground.
Systems 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Annual Maintenance: Today the crew completed the yearly T2 inspection. During this task, the crew inspected the isolators, motor belt, bottom snubbers, treadmill slats and screws, and the bungee shackle key mount witness marks.  They also cleaned the bearing house, the closeout panels, and vacuumed the filter screen as well as inside the rack and around the treadmill. This is nominal periodic corrective maintenance.  An unmanned activation and checkout was completed after the maintenance.
Acoustic Monitor Recording of T2 Audio: Today the crew also performed an Acoustic Monitor recording of the unmanned activation and checkout protocol that is performed prior to and immediately following the T2 yearly maintenance. Two Acoustic Monitors were used to record audio of the T2 at each tread speed.
Completed Task List Activities:

Columbus D1 Rack Bags filling
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) Cleanup
Cleaning up ECOKs and relocating outside of Airlock
Express Rack 6 Locker Removal
iPad FIT Update
IP Concatenation Box LAN Cable 2 Check
Payload MELFI Retrieve
Rodent Research MELFI Sample Locate
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab, CO2 Incubator Controller Valve Close
Unpack USOS items launched on 75P
Glacier 3 Desiccant Swap
Polar 4 Desiccant Swap
SSC2 Shell Swap
Warehouse CTB Locate
ESA AstroPi Blue SD Card Adapter Wanted Poster
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Saver Cable Removal
Mesh Cleaning on 120 TO 28 VDC Converter
EXPRESS Laptop Computer 4 Shell Change

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Oxygen Generator Assembly (OGA) Pump Speed Adjustment
Ground Support for T2 Annual Maint
ATS PPL Load
JEM Robotics Ops

