
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: Actiwatch devices were attached to the HRF-1 rack for data downlink and charging. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Advanced Nano Step: The Nano Step Cartridge with Nano Step Specimen Cell-5 and Nano Step Circuit Box was installed into the Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF). The Effects of Impurities on Perfection of Protein Crystals, Partition Functions, and Growth Mechanisms (Advanced Nano Step) experiment monitors and records how the incorporation of specific impurity molecules affect the development and quality of protein crystals, as they grow in a quartz cell aboard the ISS. The crystals grown on the ISS are returned to Earth and characterized using synchrotron X-ray diffraction. The protein crystal and impurity interactions are managed and monitored jointly by both scientists on the ground and the ISS crew.
Confocal Space Microscopy: The two checkout samples were removed from the Thermal Container on the Microscope and the Temp Logger was installed. The Confocal Space Microscope (Confocal Microscope) is a JAXA facility that provides fluorescence images of biological samples aboard the ISS. Confocal microscopy uses spatial filtering techniques to eliminate out-of-focus light or glare in specimens with thicknesses exceeding the immediate plane of focus. With the Confocal Microscope, data can be obtained on the fundamental nature of cellular and tissue structure and functions in real-time.
Human Research Facility-1 (HRF-1): An inventory of the HRF Supply Kit Purple, the HRF Supply Kit Green, and the Urine Collection Kits via Stow Track was performed. HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Immunity Assay: Four Immunity Assay Reaction Tube Ziplock Bags, stowed into ICEBERG-2, were audited. Immunity Assay targets to investigate the impact of space-flight stressors on cellular immune functions ex vivo using a new in vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity assay set-up.
RadMap Telescope: The RadMap Telescope was installed in preparation for future operations. Understanding and overcoming the human risks from space radiation is one of the major challenges facing future space exploration. The Validating New Radiation-Sensing Technologies (RadMap Telescope) demonstrates new radiation-sensing technologies for applications in autonomous and crewed spacecraft. These technologies, which have just become sufficiently mature for large-scale applications, enable compact yet highly capable radiation monitors so future spacecraft can benefit from increased measurement capabilities with fewer sensors.
Snowcone Cloud Edge Compute Demonstration (Snowcone): The Ethernet Cable at the Integrated Station LAN (ISL) Interface Panel was disconnected following the conclusion of Snowcone operations. Snowcone demonstrates technology to screen astronaut images and identify those that may contain sensitive information not for public release. The technology includes reduction of large-scale data and processing of data near the source, known as edge computing, which are capabilities integral to future space exploration.
Veg-05: The Veggie facility was cleaned after operations and set up for dry out. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring: The crew retrieved and configured tools for the upcoming Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval EVA. This included hardware for the Articulating Portable Foot Restraint (APFR), Modular Mini Work Stations (MWSs), tethers, restraints, translation aids, and hand held tools. Additionally, the crew photographed final tool configuration buildups for the ground to review. The APFR is a very commonly used tool to restrain an EV crew member’s feet at a work site. The MWS is a hard-structure, mechanical device which mounts on the front of the Hard Upper Torso (HUT) on the EMU for tool stowage, restraint, and transport.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Oxygen Generator System (OGS) Operations: The crew removed the Velcro from the OGS rack panel and adapter and installed new ones. Next, the crew used the Velocicalc device and a set of measurement aids to measure the air flow for the Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) inlet. This activity supports monitoring of the health of the ISS InterModule Ventilation (IMV) system. The OGA is part of the Regen Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) System and produces oxygen via electrolysis using iodinated water from the Water Processor Assembly (WPA).
EVA Helmet Light Installation and Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Powered Hardware Checkout: The crew installed the Helmet Light Restraint Straps on to the Helmet Light gimbals. Next, the crew installed the Helmet Light Bracket to the Helmet. The crew then installed the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) TV and EVA Helmet Interchangeable Portable (EHIP) Power Adapters. Finally, the crew performed a REBA Powered Hardware Checkout for the glove heaters and EMU TV.  These activities were all performed in preparation for the upcoming RFG Retrieval EVA on April 28th.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

HRF Rack 1 Rack Commanding
Crew Dragon System Checkout
ARS Node 3 MCA Zero Calibration
WSC SCP-8 CY21Q4-2 RHEL8 Step-up
EMU Data Recorder Operations

