
Payloads:
NanoRacks CubeSats Deployer-25 (NRCSD-25): The NRCSD satellites were successfully deployed.  NRCSD-25 deployed six different satellites: NEUDOSE will measure and map the real-time radiation dose received by astronauts performing EVAs. YukonSat demonstrates using student-designed satellites for on-demand display of art and audio recordings from Northern Peoples. The project also supports a world-wide game with coded messages to be deciphered by amateur radio operators working together. AuroraSat uses satellites to support design and development of projects by Indigenous and Inuit students. Ex-Alta 2 demonstrates the use of student-designed and developed satellites to predict, monitor, and assess wildfires. LightCube is a student-built satellite with a remote-controlled flash bulb. Amateur radio operators using low-cost equipment can activate the satellite from the ground and produce a brief flash visible to the naked eye. ARKSat-1 demonstrates ground tracking of a CubeSat with a bright LED light. This system of an emitter or light and a ground chaser with receiving and tracking capabilities can measure material between spacecraft and could be used to study atmospheres of other planets and moons in the solar system.
Manufacturing Device: The feeder canister was replaced, and Manufacturing Device was setup for another print attempt. The Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF) enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the AMF that is installed into an EXPRESS Rack locker location. The AMF is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Systems:
Countermeasures System (CMS) Orthostatic Intolerance Garment (OIG) Fit Check Operations: The crew performed measurement activities using a tape measure to determine the circumference of the crew member’s waist and right leg. The data was then recorded and entered on the forms in the Data Collection Tool. The OIG, like the anti-gravity suit (AGS), are compression garments used to prevent the crew from experiencing orthostatic intolerance (OI) and consequential syncope and blackouts while performing reentry, landing, and egress tasks.
Virtual Reality Training (VRT) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER): The crew completed training to refamiliarize and practice SAFER rescue scenarios using the VRT on a Station Support Computer (SSC). The SAFER is a small, self-contained, propulsive backpack system worn during EVAs, to be used in case of emergency only. If an EVA crew member were to lose physical contact with the ISS, it would provide free-flying mobility to return to it.
Flush of Resupply Tank (RST) to ЕДВ Water Transfer Hardware: The crew performed a flush of potable grade hardware that was used to transfer fluid from an RST to ЕДВ with an iodinated water source. The ЕДВs are intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. They are also used to store water and urine for disposal on the Progress. 
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) On-orbit Fit Check Verification (OFV) Extravehicular (EV) and Intravehicular (IV): In preparation of the USOS RFG Retrieval EVA on April 28th, the crew performed an OFV for the two suited EV crewmembers with EMU 3013 and EMU 3009. Additionally, after the fit check, the crew replaced the EMU 3013 DCM O-ring. The EMU is the space suit currently used by astronauts to perform EVAs from the ISS Joint Airlock. It is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit.
Completed Task List Activities:

Tablet Application Troubleshooting [GMT 113]
CMS Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Arm Ropes (CAR) Inspection [GMT 113]

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEMRMS NRCSD Satellite Deployment
EVA EMU OFV EV Support
SPDM Unstow
EMU Data Recorder Operations
Potable System Configuration for ЕДВ Fill Support

