
NanoRacks External Platform (NREP) Installation:  The JEM (Japanese Experiment Module) Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) transferred and installed the NREP to the JEM External Facility (JEM-EF).  The Slide Table was returned to the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) and the crew pressurized and vented the Airlock in preparation for future JEMAL activities.  NREP represents the first external commercial research capability for testing in support of scientific investigations, sensors, and electronic components in space.
Genes in Space 2 Hardware Assembly and Checkout:  The crew assembled and checked out Genes in Space hardware in preparation for upcoming experiment sessions. The investigation is based on the winning student proposal from the second Genes in Space competition. It tests whether the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) can be used to study deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) alterations aboard the ISS.  Spaceflight causes many changes to the human body, including alterations in DNA and a weakened immune system.  Understanding whether these two processes are linked is important for safeguarding crew health but DNA technology that can track these changes is relatively untested in space. 
Everywear Investigation: A 49S crewmember set up and performed pulse wave monitoring of their carotid and radial arteries for the Everywear investigation using a tonometer and an Everywear application.  Everywear is capable of aggregating data from different tools. It makes use of wearable sensors connected to an iPad tablet computer which is wirelessly synchronized with computers on the ground. This system seeks to demonstrate the benefits of extensive physiology data collection for both science and medical follow-up purposes.
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Shield Installation:  The crew ingressed the BEAM and installed a Radiation Environment Monitor (REM) shield onto the REM sensor. This shield is a 1.1 mm thick component produced by the 3D printer on the ISS.  BEAM is an experimental expandable module attached to the ISS.  Expandable habitats greatly decrease the amount of transport volume required for future space missions. These “expandables” weigh less and take up less room on a rocket than a traditional module while allowing additional space for living and working. They also provide protection from solar and cosmic radiation, space debris, and other contaminants. Crews traveling to the moon, Mars, asteroids, or other destinations could possibly use them as habitable structures.
NanoRacks Module-55 Installation:  Today a crewmember installed the NanoRacks Module 55 on the front of NanoRacks Platform-1 in the JEM but the unit failed to power up nominally.  Troubleshooting by the crew did not resolve the issue so the sample was returned to cold stowage while ground experts investigate. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for the EXPRESS Pallet Controller Assembly (ExPCA) EVA currently scheduled for May 12, the crew utilized Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software to review the translation paths that will be used. They also performed a procedures review including detailed timeline, cuff checklist, tool config and planned getaheads. These activities were followed by a conference with ground teams to address any questions or concerns. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Soyuz 733 Automatic Phased Array Antenna (АФАР-M ) Power Bus Off/On
Saving data on RSE-Med Laptop before Installation of new SW version
Genes in Space MWA Preparation
Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
Genes in Space Hardware Test Start
Saving data on RSE-Med Laptop before Installation of new SW version
Separation of ЕДВ Using Separation Unit [УС]. Tagup with specialists as necessary
Installation of SW Version 4.2 on RSE-Med Laptop.
Portable Onboard Computers (POC) DOUG Software Review
Cleaning of ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filter cassettes and В1, В2 fan screens in DC1  (without replacement)
Genes in Space Hardware Test End
Troubleshooting of connection between VCA and the Hand-Held Microphone
Pulse Wave monitoring with EveryWear Tonometer
Vacuum Cleaning of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in DC1
СОЖ maintenance
JEM Airlock Press
Strata Status Check
Genes in Space Hardware Test Stow
Glacier Sample Remove
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
NanoRacks Module-55 Install
JEM Airlock Leak Check
Health Maintenance System (HMS) FFQ or ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Photo/TV N3/BEAM Camcorder Setup
ARED Platform Partial Fold
ARED Platform Fold Functional Handover.
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Node 3 Aft Unstow
Polar Desiccant Pack Swap
BEAM Ingress
ISS Crew Orientation
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Radiation Area Monitors (RAM) Deployment
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
Video Recording of Greetings
Payloads Network Attached Storage (NAS) Vent Cleaning
EML Reprogramming Cable installation
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Deactivation
ISS Crew Orientation
ESA Monthly Management Conference
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops
MOTOCARD. Operator Assistance with the Experiment
MELFI/MERLIN OsteoOmics Transfer
Handover of Increment 51 Crew
BEAM REM Sheild 1 Install
BEAM Cleanup and Egress
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 4
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Node 3 Aft Stow
ARED Platform Unfold Back to Nominal Position
ARED Footplate Unfold Back to Nominal Position Functional Handover
Emergency Cue Card Print
Nikon still camera sync with station time
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
Progress 435 (DC1) Stowage and IMS Ops
ISS Crew Orientation
EML Reprogramming Cable removal

Completed Task List Items

VEG03 plant water/photo
FIT screenshots – CDR and FE-2
OA7 trash gather
Food transfer
NORS O2 install

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

EVA procedures conference
RPCM S11AC swap
JEMAL pressurization and leak check

