
Payloads:
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): Treated Water Bag and Cation Exchange Tank Port valves were opened as part of system verification objectives. The demonstration of JWRS generates potable water from urine. In the past, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard. However, for long-term space missions, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Manufacturing Device: The printed object was removed and trashed, and the extruder print nozzle was cleaned. The Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF) enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the AMF that is installed into an EXPRESS Rack locker location. The AMF is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation: The crew inspected the Load Alleviating Strap on Safety Tethers, Waist Tethers, and soft strap on D-Ring Extenders for structural integrity. Next, the crew inspected for damaged cords on mounted and unmounted Retractable Equipment Tethers (RETs). Prior to each series of EVAs, the crew inspects all Tethers planned for use during the series. After tether inspections, the crew completed checkouts of the two Simplified Aid For EVA Rescues (SAFERs) and performed configuring of EVA tools.
EVA Procedure Reviews and Conference: The crew completed a Robotics Procedure Review, an EVA Depress Review, and a US EVA S-Band RFG Retrieval EVA Procedure Review. The reviews included timelines, briefing packages, tool configuration summaries, a crib sheet, caution warnings, task data, and get ahead procedures. Finally, the crew participated in a conference with the ground team to further discuss final operations to ensure a successful EVA on April 28th. During this EVA, the EV crew will retrieve S-band RFG from the stanchion and complete preparation for the IROSA Install EVAs.
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain Operations: The crew set up the drain of the installed Recycle Tank to the Brine Processor using the Brine Processor Transfer Hose. After set up, the ground team initiated the drain using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following that, the crew terminated the drain of the installed Recycle Tank to the Brine Processor then repositioned the fill/drain valve to fill. In the next step of the process, the crew swapped the ЕДВ in the offload ЕДВ spot of the UTS. Finally, the crew configured the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve for UPA processing. The UPA, part of the Regen ECLSS System, produces distillate from a mixture of pretreated urine, urine flush water, and Crew Health Care System wastewater. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

WSC SCP-7 CY21Q4-2 RHEL8 Step-up
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain Support
MT Translation
EVA Procedure Conference
PRO MSRR Activation Commanding

