04-27-2010April 27, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 04/27/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    At wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson continued her FD30 (Flight Day 30) medical protocol of Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), her second on board, performing the urine pH spot test (not sampling).     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]   Caldwell-Dyson, FE-5 Noguchi & FE-6 Creamer underwent their first eye examination using the Ultrasound equipment, taking turns as subjects and operators/CMOs (Crew Medical Officers).     [The sonograms of the eye interior are obtained with a probe held at the eyeball both in the vertical and horizontal plane.]   Preparatory to the subsequent ground-commanded upload of the new Russian vers. 8.04 software to the SM (Service Module), CDR Kotov conducted communication checks on the command & data links between the SM KTsP1 (Central Post Computer 1), TsVM (Central Computer) & TVM (Terminal Computer) from the RS1 laptop, also between KTsP2, TsVM & TVM from the RS2 laptop, and a transmission test of the command & data link RS1–KTsP1–TsVM–TVM to verify performance.  A tagup with ground specialists followed.   Later today, after the software upgrade, Kotov will turn off the RS1 laptop.   With the Elektron O2 generator and Vozdukh CO2 scrubber deactivated, FE-3 Kornienko conducted an oxygen repress of the ISS atmosphere from Progress M-04M/36P stores.   Caldwell-Dyson powered up the SDRM (SpaceDRUMS/Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix) experiment hardware, turning it off again ~5 hrs later, after data downlink.    [SpaceDRUMS suspends a solid or liquid sample using 20 acoustic beam emitters during combustion or heat-based synthesis.  Materials can be produced in microgravity with an unparalleled quality of shape and composition.  SpaceDRUMS will support scientific understanding of processes like combustion synthesis and self-propagating high temperature synthesis and also provide direct commercial benefits from materials processing.  Advanced ceramics, polymer, and colloids can be processed in SpaceDRUMS.]   Afterwards, the FE-2 installed, cabled and activated the new VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module) instrument for its first run.     [The JPL-developed VCAM identifies gases that are present in minute quantities in the ISS breathing air that could be harmful to crew health.  If successful, instruments like VCAM could accompany crewmembers during long-duration exploration missions.  Similar to the earlier employed VOA (Volatile Organic Analyzer), VCAM can provide a means for monitoring the air within enclosed environments, using a miniature preconcentrator, GC (gas chromatograph), and mass spectrometer for unbiased detection of a large number of organic species.  VCAM's software can identify whether the chemicals are on a targeted list of hazardous compounds and their concentration.  A VCAM calibration gas is used periodically to check how the instrument’s components are actually performing.  The raw data, calibration data, and analysis results are all sent to the ground for further assessment to validate the instrument’s detection, identification, and quantification results.]   In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-5 Noguchi serviced the BLB WAICO-2 (Biolab / Waving & Coiling of Arabidopsis at Different Gravity Levels 2) payload, removing the RECs (Reference Experiment Containers) from Rotors A & B and preparing the first set of ECs for experimentation.    [Set 1, consisting of ECs 1-4, was transferred from the BGB (Biolab Glovebox), after sterilization, to the TCU1 (Temperature Control Unit 1) at 4 degC.  Set 2 will later contain ECs 5-8.]   Noguchi then conducted chemical testing of the 20 mL water samples collected by Tracy yesterday from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) and SM SRV-K Warm & SVO-ZV taps, using EHS C-SPE (Environmental Health System / Colorimetric Solid-Phase Extraction) analysis and the CWQMK (Colorimetric Water Quality Monitoring Kit).     [Results of the Iodine standard & analyses and of the Silver standard & analyses were downlinked via Crew Note.]   Working a large number of activities in the RS (Russian Segment), FE-3 Mikhail Kornienko –  Unstowed a BOV-91 Fan Shutoff      Unit and secured it on the BP      SKV Air Conditioner Power Supply in the SM, in order to have it      available without search for quicker response, Took documentary      photographs of a broken connector behind panel 247 in the SM, then fixed      it with tape and reclosed the panel, Did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system      (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM  [regular      daily SOZh      maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet      facilities, replacement of the KTO      & KBO      solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine      containers.], Completed the daily IMS (Inventory      Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta      file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated      export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow,      Baikonur), Changed out replaceable      parts in the SM’s ASU      toilette facility with new components, such as a filter insert (F-V), the urine      receptacle (MP),      the pretreat container (E-K)      with its hose and the DKiV      pretreat & water dispenser [all old parts were discarded as trash.       E-K      contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H2SO4      (sulfuric acid), CrO3 (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple      color), and H2O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed      with water in the DKiV      dispenser and used for toilet flushing.] Conducted a search for an      18-meter PO-70      Vacuum Cleaner cable, Completed the periodic      checkout & performance verification of IP-1      airflow sensors in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways  [inspected      IP-1s      are in the passageways PrK      (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO      (SM Working Compartment), PkhO      (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO,      PkhO–DC1,      PkhO–FGB      PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1], and Conducted another      photography & video session for the DZZ-13      “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining data on      color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Pacific, then      copying the images & audio files of his commentary to the RSK-1 laptop.    Kornienko also performed the periodic service of the RS radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), verifying proper function of its recent (3/29) setup by taking readings with the LULIN-5 electronics box, set up in the DC-1 Docking Compartment near the spherical “phantom”.     [Background:  The Matryoshka facility has been used on the ISS for radiation science experiments since 2004, as follows:  MTR-1 was performed outside the ISS/SM with active & passive detectors 2/26/04 – 8/18/05; MTR-2A was performed inside (DC-1), with passive detectors only, 1/5/06 – 12/7/06); MTR-2B was conducted inside the Russian part of the ISS (DC-1 & SM) with active & passive detectors from 10/18/07 – 3//09.  The new Matryoshka-Kibo is the fourth experiment performed with the Matryoshka facility onboard the ISS; it covers for the first time measurements made inside the Japanese Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), complementing the earlier Matryoshka results by adding radiation data acquired during a different phase of the solar cycle.  For Matryoshka-Kibo, a new set of passive dosimeters will be delivered to the ISS on Progress and shortly thereafter installed in the “Phantom” which then will be transferred to its stowage location inside Kibo.]    After configuring the Lab video camcorder for live monitoring of his activities on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), FE-6 Creamer set up another experiment run on the FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility), ground-assisted by POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center).    [Steps included removing a CIR Manifold Bottle (#2002) and replacing it with a fresh one (#2003), containing 100% CO2, then removing another Manifold Bottle (#2014) from the front of the Optics Bench, replacing it with #2009 (contents: 40% O2, 20% CO2, 40% N2).  After also removing & replacing the CIR Absorber Cartridge, TJ closed the upper rack doors and informed POIC that the rack was ready for remote commanding.]    Using the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) equipment and appropriate software, Tracy Caldwell-Dyson & Timothy Creamer each completed a body mass measurement (BMM).  The required control run was performed by Tracy beforehand, after setting up the calibration arm and attaching the calibration mass.  Afterwards, TJ powered off, dismantled and temporarily stowed the SLAMMD gear.     [SLAMMD, performed first on Expedition 12 in December 2005, provides an accurate means of determining the on-orbit mass of humans spanning the range from the 5th percentile Japanese female to the 95th percentile American male.  The procedure, in accordance with Newton’s 2nd Law of Motion, finds the mass by dividing force, generated by two springs inside the SLAMMD drawer, by acceleration measured with a precise optical instrument that detects the position versus time trajectory of the SLAMMD guide arm and a micro controller which collects the raw data and provides the precise timing.  The final computation is done via portable laptop computer with SLAMMD unique software.  To calculate their mass, crewmembers wrap their legs around a leg support assembly, align the stomach against a belly pad and either rest the head or chin on a head rest.  For calibration, an 18-lbs. mass is used at different lengths from the pivot point, to simulate different mass values.  Crew mass range is from 90 to 240 lbs.]   In preparation for Progress M-05M/37P docking on 5/1 (Saturday, ~2:34pm EDT), CDR Kotov & FE-1 Skvortsov worked through the standard three-hour training course with the TORU teleoperator system, which provides a manual backup mode to the Progress’ KURS automated rendezvous radio system.  Afterwards, Oleg & Sasha tagged up with a TORU instructor at TsUP/Moscow via S-band audio to report on results.  One of the two crewmembers will monitor the automatic approach & docking plus operate TORU if necessary, while the other will support approach & docking.      [The drill included procedure review, rendezvous, docking data and rendezvous math modeling data review, fly-around, final approach, docking and off-nominal situations (e.g., video or comm loss).  Three modes were simulated on the RSK1 laptop with varying range and sunlight conditions.  The TORU teleoperator control system lets a SM (Service Module)-based crewmember perform the approach and docking of automated Progress vehicles in case of KURS failure.  Receiving a video image of the approaching ISS, as seen from a Progress-mounted docking television camera (“Klest”), on a color monitor (“Simvol-Ts”, i.e. “symbol center”) which also displays an overlay of rendezvous data from the onboard digital computer, the crewmember would steer the Progress to mechanical contact by means of two hand controllers, one for rotation (RUO), the other for translation (RUD), on adjustable armrests.  The controller-generated commands are transmitted from the SM's TORU control panel to the Progress via VHF radio.  In addition to the Simvol-Ts color monitor, range, range rate (approach velocity) and relative angular position data are displayed on the “Klest-M” video monitor (VKU) which starts picking up signals from Progress when it is still approximately 8 km away.  TORU is monitored in real time from TsUP over Russian ground sites (RGS) and via Ku-band from Houston, but its control cannot be taken over from the ground.]   At ~11:30am, the crew held their first joint fire drill/OBT (on-board training), a mandatory periodic one-hour exercise (including subsequent 15-min ground debrief conference) to practice initial crew actions in response to an onboard fire.     [Primary goal of this Russian-led interactive exercise is to maintain crew skills in responding to a fire and to provide the station residents with the most realistic emergency training possible.  The drill is always conducted with the support of all MCCs (TsUP-Moscow, TsUP-Kazakhstan, MCC-Houston, COL-CC, SSIPC/Tsukuba) in close coordination.  It should be performed every 2.5 months, but not later than 1 month prior to end of Increment.  OBT objectives are to (a) practice fire response procedures (FRPs) and all incorporated actions for the case of a software-detected fire to locate, extinguish, and verify extinguishing attempts; (b) browse through RS laptop and the Signal-VM fire detection system displays as well as the automated software (algorithms) response to the fire event; (c) practice crew communication necessary to perform emergency FRPs;  (d) ensure familiarization with support equipment (CSA-CP compound specific analyzer-combustion products, PBAs portable breathing assemblies, PFE/OSP-4 portable fire extinguishers, and IPK-1M gas masks to be used for fire suppression).  These exercises do not actually use any fire equipment but simulate such actions with comm channels, PBAs, CSA-CP and laptop displays to the maximum extent possible.  The Emergency Procedures OBT will conclude with a 15-min. debrief with Russian/U.S. ground specialists at ~2:50pm EDT via S-band.]   Oleg & Sasha continued the familiarization & checkout session, begun yesterday, with the PZE KARDIOMED (Cardiomed) equipment, today testing the connection between the KARDIOMED equipment and the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system in direct transmission mode.    [The KARDIOMED hardware, which includes the KARDIOMED-TsB, KARDIOMED-KP, KARDIOMED-PMO and KARDIOMED-KRM assemblies, a HOLTER monitor harness, a PLETISMOGRAF (Plethysmograph) instrument and a DOPPLER complex, was delivered on Progress 36P and installed by Oleg in the SM on 2/26.  A Plethysmograph (sometimes called a “body box”) is an instrument for measuring changes in volume within an organ or the whole body (usually resulting from fluctuations in the amount of blood or air it contains).]   In the Russian MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2) “Poisk”, the CDR deactivated the MPI Multifunction Indicator Panel.   In Node-3, TJ Creamer set up an EDV container and pump on WRS (Water Recovery System) closeout brackets and connected the EDV-U to the newly fixed T-valve.  The Russian Kompressor-M pump remains unconnected to the UOP (Utility Outlet Panel) power plug.   The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).   T2 Update:    Working from their discretionary “job jar” task list, the crew began troubleshooting activities on the T2/COLBERT treadmill in Node-3 (to be hard-scheduled later this week).  Activities include installing spacer bars and stabilizers on the T2 rack, then photo documenting the sway space, including steps to ensure 3/4" sway space is visible.  In another activity, for troubleshooting the wireless connectivity, the crew was to manually navigate to the server from the T2 display, and also transfer the data from the display to a USB memory stick for downlink.    [Background:  T2 has not been cleared for use yet since there is not enough sway clearance at the bottom and top of the rack.]  Progress 37P Launch Preps:   At the Baikonur/Kazakhstan Cosmodrome, preparations continue for the launch of Progress M-05M/37P cargo vehicle to the ISS.  Countdown is proceeding nominally toward a launch tomorrow (4/28) at 1:15pm EDT.   L-1 activities are being conducted.  Progress M-05M will deliver 1,918 pounds of propellant, 110 pounds of oxygen & air, 220 pounds of water and 3,031 pounds of spare parts & experiment hardware.     CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Simon's Bay, Cape Point, S. Africa (Simon’s Bay [with the naval facilities of Simon’s Town] is a small bay on the west side of the larger False Bay, almost at nadir.  Charles Darwin stopped here at the southern tip of Africa on 31st May, 1836.  In his diary Darwin speaks of riding from Simon’s Town to Cape Town, and of “the pleasure which the sight of an entirely new vegetation never fails to communicate…”  In Cape Town he met with astronomer Sir John Herschel [who originated use of the Julian day system in astronomy], a meeting he described as “the most memorable event which, for a long period, I have had the good fortune to enjoy.”), and Cape Town, South Africa (shooting nadir left.  Images of the margins of greater Cape Town were requested for mapping purposes.  Cape Town has experienced enormous sprawl eastwards onto the Cape Flats where very extensive shanty towns have developed.  There has been a progressive immigration not only from other parts of South Africa, but from many countries in Africa south of the Sahara.  Cape Town is experiencing a building boom as the city prepares to host the Soccer World Cup which will be held in for the first time in Africa in June).  