04-24-2011April 24, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 04/24/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Easter Sunday – Crew off duty.  Ahead: Week 7 of Increment 27. HAPPY EASTER!   С праздником Пасхи! [Note: Russia’s Orthodox Church observes Easter (Pasha) this year also today, on the basis of the Julian calendar and the "paskhalias" – i.e. special "paschal" lunar tables – with khristosovanie traditions like triple kiss exchange and red eggs.]  Upon wake-up, FE-1 Samokutyayev performed the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 (oxygen) generator.      [Maxim Suraev installed these filters on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Sasha inspects the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.] FE-2 Borisenko terminated charging the battery for the KPT-2 BAR TTM-2 anemometer/thermometer, initiated last night, and put the equipment back in storage.      [Objective of the Russian BAR-EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  The payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss anemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.] Afterwards, Andrey checked out proper communications between the BSPN Payload Server and the RSS1 laptop, and then downloaded data accumulated from the GFI-7 Molniya-GAMMA experiment mounted externally since the Russian EVA-28.      [GFI-17 “Molniya” FOTON-GAMMA investigates atmospheric gamma-ray bursts and optical radiation in conditions of thunderstorm activity.] Alex Samokutyayev conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers]. Sasha also performed the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s & FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP. FE-3, FE-5 & FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Paolo at ~4:55am, Cady at ~8:30am,Ron at ~11:50am EDT. At ~6:00am EDT, Dmitri, Alex & Andrey conducted a special crew-requested TV conference with the Dean of Star City Church, exchanging Easter Holiday greetings.     [Via S-band/audio & Ku-band/video.] At ~6:40am, Borisenko & Samokutyayev supported a Russian PAO TV event, downlinking greetings for recording at TsUP for the Grand Opening of the Moscow Planetarium on June 12, 2011.    [Moscow Planetarium will re-open on June 12, 2011, after a 17-year long renovation.  “…Cosmonauts, like the entire nation, have been waiting for this day the long 17 years, since the Planetarium has been closed.  This is a remarkable and symbolic sign that the Planetarium is reopening in a year when the entire world is celebrating the 50th anniversary of the first human flight to space.  We are extremely proud that this person was our fellow countryman, Yuri Alexeyevich Gagarin.  Most likely many of you know that in the Big Star Hall of Moscow Planetarium the first Cosmonaut Corps, with Yuri Gagarin as a member, received a training course on how to find their way around in space.  In the past 50 years space technologies made a huge leap forward, and we, today’s cosmonauts, are getting space flight training in a totally different way.  But still, for every cosmonaut Moscow Planetarium was and still is a special place, where it all had begun.  Our sincere best wishes to everybody who was a part of this great undertaking, the rebirth of Moscow Planetarium.”] At ~11:25am, in observance of Orthodox Easter, the three Russian crewmembers received a phone call from the Patriarch of Moscow, Kirill I, from TsUP-Moscow. At ~12:55pm, Kondratyev, Borisenko & Samokutyayev held a ham radio session with students from Kurchatov High School #1.     [Student questions:  “Do you ever have unforeseen situations during the flight, and how do you resolve them?  How does the planet EARTH look like from space?  What sensations to you have in weightlessness?  Can you predict natural disasters from space, like the recent one in Japan?  Do you have any free time? What do you do?  Would you like for your children to become cosmonauts?  How much the look of stars and planets from Earth is different from that in space?  What did you dream to see in space?  Did your dream come true?  What is the most difficult job on the ISS?.] The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-2). No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today. 