
Payloads:
ACE-T-2 (Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-2): The crew changed out the ACE (Advanced Colloids Experiment) Module inside the LMM (Light Microscopy Module) AFC (Auxiliary Fluids Container) for the next ACE-T2 science runs. The Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-2 (ACE-T-2) experiment looks at the assembly of complex structures from micron-scale colloidal particles interacting via tunable attractive interactions. The samples contain suspensions of trifluoroethyl methacrylate (FEMA) colloidal particles (10%vol) of type A and B in binary solvents composed of water (H2O, 68%mass) and lutidine (32%mass), that upon nearing the critical solvent temperature, give rise to critical Casimir interactions between the particles. Regulating the temperature enables control of the particle interactions, which for these mixtures of particles A and B are different, leading to the growth of complex structures. This experiment helps provide a better understanding of how complex interactions lead to complex structures and the dynamics of growth of these structures.
GRIP: The crew performed the first part of GRIP seated position science tasks (1 and 2 out of 3). The GRIP experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
RTPCG-2 (Real-Time Protein Crystal Growth-2): The crew removed excess moisture from the EasyXtal plates and prepared the plates for return on Crew-1 Dragon. Phase II Real-time Protein Crystal Growth on Board the International Space Station (RTPCG-2) demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity can sometimes produce high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 tests high-quality proteins crystals for detailed analysis back on Earth
VECTION: The crew executed a Vection Experiment Session. The objective of the study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, and how it may adapt and be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allow for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
ISS HAM: A crewmembers made ISS HAM contacts with St. Margaret’s School, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Systems:
MISSE Transfer Operations – On Friday, 4/23, during Materials International Space Station Experiment (MISSE) 14 MISSE Sample Container (MSC) Transfer ops, ROBO encountered what appeared to be a stuck Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) drive mode indicator on RMCT 1 while attempting to get off of an installed MSC. This resulted in approximately 1.5-hour delay in release of MSC-3. After further investigation, it was determined that the mechanism was making all expected mode transitions, and that the mode indicator was stuck. ROBO was able to unstick the mode indicator during subsequent modding to the Collet.  Also, during MISSE-14 MSC transfer ops on Friday, ROBO encountered a Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm 1 safing event while attempting to release an installed MSC. It is believed that this safing occurred due to the Force Movement Sensor (FMS) drifting during the 1.5-hour delay caused by the RMCT-1 drive mode indicator anomaly.  This issue was resolved by slightly widening the Force/Moment Accommodation (FMA) limits.
On Saturday, 4/24, during MISSE Trolley Bare Bolt operations, ROBO did not get the expected end item after uplinking a command to enable Auto-Wiggle for the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). The telemetry received after this command indicated that there was an incorrect scaling factor in the command system when compared to the command template.  Ground teams discovered that there was a conversion issue that accounted for the scaling discrepancy.  A Software Change Request (SCR) will be implemented to correct the command template, and to document the commanding workaround for contingency Wiggle operations.
Mobile Transporter (MT) Translation – On Sunday, 4/25, the MT translated from worksite 2 to worksite 7.  This translation was in support of the scheduled MISSE transfers to bring the MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT) back to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock.
75 Progress Prop Purge – On Sunday, 4/25, there was a successful 75P propellant purge in preparation for 75P departure on Tuesday, 4/27.
Crew Orientation – On Monday, 4/26, Crew-2 crewmembers continued working through their ISS orientation sessions as well as their increment handover and adaptation sessions. The first two weeks after a crewed vehicle arrives and has docked, the new ISS crew will have 1 hour a day to adjust to living in space.
Polar Sample Transfer: – On Monday 4/26, Polar samples were transferred from Cold Stowage. Crewmembers set up camcorders and transferred samples from Cold Stowage to Polar using Ice Bricks and a Double Coldbags in preparation for Dragon descent. Live HD camcorder video streamed the entire duration to document crew operations; video not recorded for downlink.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Columbus EPM high rate data downlink
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer Operations and Commanding
Multiple User System for Earth Sensing Platform Resources and Commanding

