
ELF (Electro-static Levitation Furnace): The crew performed a cartridge sample #3 chamber swap and then opened the Air Gas bottle unit in preparation for the next sample run. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. 
VEGGIE PONDS (Veggie Passive Orbital Nutrient Delivery System): The crew performed photography on the Veggie Ponds modules. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food. Therefore, understanding how plants respond to microgravity and demonstrating the reliable vegetable production on orbit are important steps toward that goal. Veggie PONDS uses a newly developed passive nutrient delivery system and the Veggie plant growth facility aboard the ISS to cultivate lettuce and mizuna greens which are to be harvested on-orbit, and consumed, with samples returned to Earth for analysis.
Systems
Systems Operations Data File (SODF) Update: Today, the crew performed an update to the Emergency Response book to incorporate changes to the ammonia response procedure. The updates to the procedure account for the Soyuz configuration following 61S departure.
Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) Bottle Troubleshooting: The crew replaced a depleted PPFS gas bottle with a bottle from the Human Research Facility (HRF) Gas Delivery System (GDS).  The PPFS previously failed calibration checks during an exercise exam late last year. The swap-out of the gas canisters today will allow the crew to perform tests to isolate the source of the leak.
Completed Task List Activities:

Transfer 62S USOS unpack
Reconfigure CEVIS control panel network connection
NH3 cleanup kit trash
Increment handover self-study
Photo TV lens bumper ring install
Reposition cables protruding into ARED Keep-Out Zone
Reconfigure EMUs on EDDAs
Cygnus Cargo Ops (ongoing)
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) hardware locate (ongoing)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


ATS PPL Update
Daily File Downlinks
Comm Configuration for TORY Test

