
Payloads:
Veg-05: The Veggie facility completed its dry out period and was deactivated. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. 
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Reviews and Conferences: The crew completed a Robotics Procedure Review and a US EVA S-Band Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval EVA Procedure Review. The reviews included timelines, briefing packages, tool configuration summaries, a crib sheet, caution warnings, task data, and get ahead procedures. Finally, the crew participated in a conference with the ground team to further discuss final operations to ensure a successful EVA on April 28th. During this EVA, the EV crew will retrieve the S-band RFG from the stanchion and complete preparation for the ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Install EVAs.
EVA Preparation Activities: The crew prepared the Equipment Lock and Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMUs) 3013 and 3009 for EVA and suit donning. Next the crew performed set up of the Crew Lock for the Depress Test scheduled for tomorrow.  Next, the crew retrieved, configured, audited, and verified EVA tools. This included hardware for the Articulating Portable Foot Restraint (APFR), Modular Mini Work Stations (MWSs), tethers, restraints, translation aids, hand held tools, and the Pistol Grip Tool (PGT). Additionally, the crew photographed final tool configuration buildups for the ground to review. The APFR is a very commonly used tool to restrain an EV crew member’s feet at a work site. The MWS is a hard-structure, mechanical device which mounts on the front of the Hard Upper Torso (HUT) on the EMU for tool stowage, restraint, and transport.
Completed Task List Activities:

WHC KTO Replace
IFM Tool Pre Gather

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SCP 7 & 3 ISS Step-over
WSGT Circuit Breaker Replacement (NAM 5988)
ARS Node 3 MCA Commanded to Full Calibration
MSS Power Up

