
Fluids Integration Rack (FIR): The crew replaced both FCF Hard Drives in the FCF Image Processor in the FIR. This change out is in response to the hard drive failure that occurred on GMT 063 and will allow the continuation of ACE-T4 experiment operations. The FIR is a complementary fluid physics research facility designed to host investigations in areas such as colloids, gels, bubbles, wetting and capillary action, and phase changes, including boiling and condensation.
Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) #13: The crew performed Part 1 of the J-SSOD #13 installation procedures. This involved installing the J-SSOD deployer hardware onto the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP). The JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the International Space Station (ISS). The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD, including satellite install cases with small satellites, is installed on the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) by crew members, it is passed through the JEM airlock for retrieval, positioning, and deployment by the JEMRMS.
Systems
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review: All three crew participated in the review of the EMER-2 Emergency general instructions and discussed overall emergency responses. The crew reviewed procedures for an initial response to a depress event, to pinpoint a leak on the vehicle and how to isolate in the event of a known leak in the Russian segment.
Exercise Video Sessions: Today the crew setup up video cameras to record and downlink their exercise sessions on the Treadmill 2 (T2) and Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED). These video sessions allow the ground to perform biomechanical evaluations of the on-orbit crewmembers and obtain a hardware status.
Completed Task List Activities:

Gather Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


INT MDM Transition
Daily File Downlinks
ECLSS Pre/Post configuration commanding for INT-2 Transition
INT MDM Swap Rack Power Switch Reconfiguration

