
Crew-2 Launch Delay: Teams discussed the weather forecast for the Thursday April 22 Crew-2 launch attempt and all concurred with delaying the launch. Winds and wave heights along the ascent corridor, including at the pad and staging areas, are predicted to be unfavorable for Thursday. The new target launch date is Friday April 23 at 4:49AM CT. Docking would occur on Saturday, April 24 at 4:10AM CT.
Payloads
Micro-16: The crew prepared the final group of Micro-16 Session 4 Day 2 samples for microscopy observations. This was the last load and microscopy operations for this experiment. Loss of muscle mass and strength present a major challenge for astronauts on future long space voyages. Determining Muscle Strength in Space-flown Caenorhabditis elegans (Micro-16) uses this tiny worm to test whether decreased expression of muscle proteins is associated with decreased strength. The research team developed a new device to measure muscle strength in multiple generations of space-reared C. elegans worms and compare that strength to postflight muscle gene expression analyses.
Myotones: The crew performed Myotones Ultrasound sessions and skin markings measurements. The investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g. muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth, as well as for future space missions.
Time Perception in Microgravity: The crew completed setup and experiment session for Time Perception in Microgravity. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. The experiment is also fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. It quantifies the subjective changes in time perception in humans during and after long-duration exposure to microgravity.
Systems
Toilet Stall Attachment Mechanism Repair: The crew replaced the tightening knob on two Toilet Stall attachment mechanisms on the starboard-top panel.  The original hardware had become non-captive during use and a repair kit was flown on NG-15.  One of the two mechanisms was successfully repaired, however, a fastener on the second mechanism failed during closeout of the activity.  The Stall was replaced onto the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) rack and attached with the available hardware. Crew have been advised to avoid applying loads into the Stall while in this interim configuration. Teams are assessing a plan to recover the failed mechanism.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Payloads ops support
MISSE robo ops
Crew-1 system checkout

