
Payloads:
CapiSorb Visible System (CVS): Experiment operations continued. The CVS investigation demonstrates a liquid control using capillary forces over a range of liquid properties that are characteristic of liquid carbon dioxide sorbents. Since microgravity makes it difficult to control the flow of liquids, carbon dioxide removal methods on the ISS have been unable to take advantage of systems that use specialized liquids, such as those on submarines. Previous experiments have shown that capillary forces, the interaction of a liquid with a solid that draws fluid up a narrow tube, can be used to control liquids in microgravity and could contribute to design of more efficient carbon dioxide removal systems in space. CVS takes this one step further by manipulating liquid properties in microgravity and proving the ability to control the liquid over the full property range.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham contact was initiated with Montross Middle School, Montross, VA. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Systems:
Northrup Grumman 18 (NG-18) Cygnus Departure: Today, Cygnus was unberthed from the Node 1 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS), then maneuvered to the release position and released for departure at 6:22 AM CDT. Cygnus, filled with waste/trash from the space station packed by the crew, is scheduled for a destructive re-entry tonight, Friday, April 21st at approximately 10:00 PM CDT.
Toilet Pre-Treat Tank Remove and Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Replace: Today, the Pre-Treat Tank was removed from Toilet and installed into WHC as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation. A functional test was performed and the pre-treat lines were inspected to confirm pre-treat is being pulled away from the newly installed tank. 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Extravehicular Activity Preparations: The crew printed the robotics procedures for the upcoming US EVA Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval, and then participated in an EVA Conference to review familiarization products followed by a conference with ground specialists. Familiarization products include the detailed timeline, a briefing package, configuration and tool notes, procedures, and additional data.
Crew Health Care Systems (CHeCS) Emergency Health Maintenance System Contingency Drill Training: Onboard Training (OBT) provided the opportunity for the crew to review procedures, hardware, and communication methods necessary to manage a medical emergency onboard ISS. Emergency medical equipment was deployed and crew practiced CPR positioning to ensure familiarity with procedure execution should a medical emergency occur.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Cygnus Departure Ops
MSS Walkoff Maneuver
MSS Maneuver
MT Translation

