
Space Fibers: The test run on GMT 118 terminated early when the fiber broke from the spool. The 2nd test on GMT 119 appeared to have a broken fiber on the spool that had occurred sometime prior to the run. Though both runs were not fully completed, science was still acquired with regards to fiber behavior. The crew removed and stowed the Space Fibers Reflight hardware from the Microgravity Science Glovebox which completes all the objectives for the Reflight mission. Manufacturing Fiber Optic Cable in Microgravity (Space Fibers) evaluates a method for producing fiber optic cable from a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium and aluminum, called ZBLAN, in space. ZBLAN produces glass one hundred times more transparent than silica-based glass, exceptional for fiber optics. Microgravity suppresses two mechanisms that commonly degrade fiber, and previous studies showed improved properties in fiber drawn in microgravity compared to that fabricated on the ground.
Veggie PONDS (Passive Orbital Nutrient Delivery System): The crew performed the deactivation of the Veggie Facility. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food. Therefore, understanding how plants respond to microgravity and demonstrating the reliable vegetable production on orbit are important steps toward that goal. Veggie PONDS uses a newly developed passive nutrient delivery system and the Veggie plant growth facility aboard the ISS to cultivate lettuce and mizuna greens which are to be harvested on-orbit, and consumed, with samples returned to Earth for analysis.
CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility): The crew completed the 2nd part of post Mouse Mission Habitat-5 CBEF cleaning activities. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility; it is an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
Astrobee: The crew assisted Astrobee ground controllers with collecting mapping data inside the Japanese Experiment Module for localization along with a series of movements using the Astrobee Free Flyer for mobility testing. A new buzz comes to the International Space Station (ISS): Astrobee. Three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. The robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Systems 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record:Crew performed an analysis of the water processing assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Completed Task List Activities:

ESA Trash Pre-gather For NG-13 Disposal
Air Quality Monitor Alternate Powercycle
Payload Hardware Trash

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


FDS SD ABIT Sync
GNC MDM Swap (GNC-1 to Primary)
PCS Reboots
Nitrogen Leak Check

