
Payloads:
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The crew performed a series of steps designed to unclog the smart pump syringe components, and installed Bio-Ink Syringes inside the BFF. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe. However, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, the BFF experiment is designed to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Hyperspectral Imager Suite (HISUI): The crew exchanged the full Mission Data Recorder (MDR) data hard disk with a new data disk. This is performed roughly every 90 days when the current disk fills up with stored HISUI experiment data. HISUI is an external investigation, and the MDR is the internal component of the investigation which is used to record and transfer data. HISUI is a next generation spaceborne hyperspectral Earth imaging system. The objective of HISUI onboard the ISS is to obtain the data necessary to begin a full-scale practical application development for hyperspectral remote sensing through manufacturing, and the inflight performance verification of a hyperspectral imager onboard ISS.
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab-3 (SABL3): In preparation for BioNutrients-2 experiment activities later this week, the crew installed a Carbon Dioxide (CO2) incubator controller. The CO2 controller is used to support air circulation in the SABL when the BioNutrients-2 production packs are installed. The SABL unit supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical, and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. The SABL unit also has switchable 28VDC and 5VDC power supplies for investigation use.
Zero Robotics (ZR)-Tech Demo #2: Using the Astrobee free-flier system, multiple tests were performed with the goal of assessing hand gesture-recognition software. These activities support hand gesture recognition testing, and the testing of new ZR student competition game concepts. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. These robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, can perform crew monitoring, sampling, and logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
Systems:
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Pump Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew removed and replaced the OGA Pump ORU in the LAB1P1 Rack. Prior to completing this task, the crew temporarily removed the Hydrogen (H2) Sensor Tech Demo on the front of the Oxygen Generation System (OGS) rack, then reinstalled it after the Pump ORU had been replaced. The OGA, which is part of the Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS), produces oxygen via electrolysis using iodinated water from the Water Processing Assembly (WPA).
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tether Inspection: Today, the crew inspected the Load Alleviating Strap (LAS) on safety tethers, waist tethers, and soft straps on D-Ring extenders in preparation for RS EVA 57 planned on May 3rd. Prior to each series of EVAs, all tethers planned for use during that series are inspected. LAS are used on crew-rated tethers to prevent damaging loads going into the suit or structure while keeping the crewmember attached to station.
Crew Dragon Port Relocation Activities: In preparation for the Crew-6 relocation planned for Saturday, May 6th, the crew confirmed Crew Dragon suit fit and operability. The crew also performed a check of the earpieces using Dragon audio, as well as a general suit inspection and zipper check. Finally, the crew performed a self-study regarding configuring Dragon for departure, final egress, and Dragon hatch closure.
Completed Task List Activities:

N/A

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Crew Dragon Awake Mode Checkout
NASCOM IONET Preventative Maintenance
Astrobee-Zero Robotics Tech Demo Operations
ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain Support
OGA Hydrogen Sensor R&R Support

