
SpaceX (SpX)-14 Dragon Departure Preparation: Early this morning, the crew completed re-packing of the Double Coldbags required for return of temperature-controlled items on Dragon.  The crew also transferred the remainder of cargo into the Dragon F4 location before they loaded the Dragon Center Stack. Once the cargo was loaded the crew removed power connections, utility jumpers and completed closeout of the Dragon vehicle prior to depressurization of the Node 2 (N2) Nadir vestibule.  Robotics ground controllers used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to unberth Dragon and are maneuvering Dragon to an overnight park position in preparation for tomorrow’s release at ~8:24 AM CDT. Dragon is scheduled to splashdown in the Pacific Ocean at 2:02 PM CDT tomorrow afternoon.  
Probiotics: Today a crewmember collected saliva samples and stowed them in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  He also completed a questionnaire. Some species of harmful bacteria such as Salmonella grow stronger and more virulent in the microgravity environment of space. At the same time, the human immune system is weaker in space, leading to increased health risks. The objective of the Probiotics investigation is to study the impact of continuous consumption of beneficial bacteria (probiotics) on immune function and intestinal microbiota in astronauts in a closed microgravity environment.  The results of this investigation may be used to support improvements in crew members’ intestinal microbiota and their immune function on long-duration space missions. 
Space Headaches:  Two 53S crewmembers completed a weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation today. This investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improve the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body Roll Joint (BRJ) and Arm1 as required to perform SPDM Arm1 Wrist, Elbow and Shoulder Joints Direct Drive Tests to support trending of mechanism health. At the end of the Arm1 tests, they maneuvered SPDM Arm1 to a stow configuration and performed the BRJ Direct Drive Tests on the SPDM Body Redundant String. Finally the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the BRJ to a stow configuration. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Probiotics Saliva Operations
Probiotics Salive Sample MELFI Insertion
Probiotics Question
KMA-01 and KMA-TM adapter post-installation checkout
Fruit Fly Lab-03 Hardware Return
Multi-use Variable-g Platform Module Removal
Cold Stowage Double Coldbag Pack
Cargo transfer to Dragon
СОЖ maintenance
Adjustment of БД-2 treadmill tension carriage position
Dragon F4 Load Assist
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Preparation for the Experiment.
Double Coldbag Transfer to Dragon
PROFILAKTIKA-2.Experiment Ops on БД-2 Treadmill 
Dragon/Node 2 VESTIBULE DEPRESS SETUP
PROFILAKTIKA-2.Closeout Ops.
VIZIR. Preparation Steps.
PROFILAKTIKA-2.Hygiene Procedures
Transfer Center Stack to Dragon
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) QD Training Review
СТТС Reconfiguration in MRM1
SEPARATION. Activation of the 5th distillation.
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
Dragon Egress in Preparation for Departure
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
PLUTO Conference
Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Rotation, Installation, and Closeout
SEPARATION. Activation of the 6th distillation.
Dragon Vestibule Configuration for Demate
Symbolic
VIZIR. Closeout Ops
Dragon/Node 2 VESTIBULE DEPRESS
PAO Preparation
Audio-session with participants of the Russian-French Conference Man and Space: Art, Science, Culture (S-band)
SEPARATION. Concluding Distillation. Log-file downlink.
USOS Window Shutter Close
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
SEPARATION. Sampling of collected water
Comm reconfig for nominal ops

Completed Task List Activities

Handover Questionnaire

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Battery 3B3 Capacity Test
Dragon Unberth and Overnight Park 

