
USOS Crew Half Duty Day: Today was a half duty day for the USOS crew. This was payback for the weekend Dragon arrived and the crew performed vehicle arrival activities including critical cargo transfer.
NeuroMapping:  Following a control pad connection to the HRF laptop, Virts launched the NeuroMapping application and completed all the tests. The NeuroMapping experiment studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking; as well as measuring how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from those possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from crewmembers returning from a long-duration spaceflight suggests that movement control and cognition are affected in microgravity. The investigation utilizes structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and FMRI) to assess changes to crewmembers after a six-month mission on the ISS.
Fine Motor Skills: Kelly and Kornienko performed their Flight Day 40 (FD 40) Fine Motor Skills data collections where crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity, and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness, to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
Robotic Refueling Mission-2 (RRM-2):   Yesterday and today (GMT 120-121), the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to grasp Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) Task Board 3 (TB3) with Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT)2 and remove it from the RRM On-Orbit Transfer Cage (ROTC) on the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Slide Table.  The SSRMS and SPDM were maneuvered into position for translation and then the Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite (WS)7 to WS2.  Finally the Robotics Ground Controllers installed TB3 on the RRM and maneuvered the SSRMS and SPDM into position for the removal of TB2 from the RRM.  Today and tomorrow (GMT 121-122), the Robotics Ground Controllers will remove TB2 and the Safety Cap Tool (SCT) from the RRM then translate the MT from WS2 to WS7 in preparation for TB2 and SCT stow on the ROTC.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Filter Cover Install:  Virts used sleeping bag liner face covering nets to create filters for installation over the CQ ducts. The nets were installed over the CQ inlet and exhaust duct inlets to provide additional dust filtering capability.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


HRF Urine Sample Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF – Blood Sample Collection – Subject
HRF Blood Sample Collection – Operator
HRF Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
HRF – Blood Sample Collection Closeout Ops
Fine Motor Skills – Experiment Ops
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
FINEMOTR – Experiment Ops
HRF Blood Collection Hardware Stowage
HRF – Equipment stowage after sample collection
NMAP – Test Operations
DRAGON. Transfers Ops
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Rodent Research (RR) – Water Box Check
Handover of Increment 43 Crew – Review Dragon Release
Video Recording of Greeting Dedicated to the 70th Anniversary of Victory r/g 8702
NANO – Ops Review
DRAGON. Transfers Ops
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Filter Installation in Crew Quarters
Dragon -Transfers Tagup
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference 

Completed Task List Items

Bone/Muscle Collection

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


RRM ops [In Work]

