
Sprint: The crew completed the exercise protocol and data collection for Sprint VO2.  Sprint VO2 measures oxygen uptake, ventilatory threshold, and other physiological parameters. It evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crew members during long-duration missions.
 
Meteor Procedure Review: In preparation for upcoming activities later this week, the crew reviewed procedures for the software load and Meteor installation. Meteor will perform the first space-based observations of the chemical composition of meteors entering Earth’s atmosphere. Meteors are relatively rare and are difficult to monitor from the ground because of the interference created by Earth’s atmosphere. The Meteor investigation takes high-resolution video and images of the atmosphere and uses a software program to search for bright spots which can later be analyzed on the ground.
 
NanoRack Module 9: The crew completed the fifth NanoRack Module 9 experiment session by activating, deactivating, and shaking the mixture tubes to facilitate the experiment. Module-9 is a collection of student research projects utilizing the NanoRacks Mixsticks. Student teams from across the United States design their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials.
 
Rodent Research 3 CASIS: Crewmembers inspected and restocked the habitats with water, and with Food Bars retrieved from the Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).
 
SpaceX (SpX)-8 Departure Preparation: In preparation for SpX-8 unberth next Wednesday, May 11, the following were completed today:

Robotics On-Board Trainer (RoBOT) session to practice vehicle release including two release runs and self study.
Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) Ultra High Frequency (UHF) Communication Unit (CUCU) and Dragon Crew Command Panel (CCP) activation and checkout.
POLAR transfer to Dragon.
Double Cold Bag packing.

At this time, the weather looks favorable for splashdown Wednesday.
 
Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA1)/Node 1 (N1) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Reconfiguration: Russian Segment and USOS split ventilation is still in effect. Over the weekend, the Lab Forward Starboard IMV fan was activated to address a ppCO2 delta between the Lab and N2. Today, the N3 Overhead Starboard IMV fan was deactivated to reduce the amount of air that is being pulled into the N1 overhead diffuser from PMA1.  Airflow from N1 into N3 will be exchanged through the hatch only. The USOS ppCO2 24-hour average is 3.18 mmHg. Teams will continue monitoring CO2 at multiple locations throughout ISS.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

NANO-MOD9 – Session 5
SPRINT Experiment Ops (Subject)
Gather Dragon Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK)
EML Changing the measurement mode of the High Speed Camera to STD mode
ISS HAM Video Ops
PLR Big Words and Procedure Review for Transfer of Polar to Dragon
Module-28 retrieval from MELFI and stowage
NANO – Module-33 removal from JPM1F5
Fluid Shifts – Stow remaining hardware from CTB into initial location and bags stowage
SPRINT Equipment Stowage
PLR Big Words and Procedure Review for Transfer of Polar to Dragon
POLAR – Polar removal from Express Rack and Transfer to  Dragon
POLAR – Polar removal from Express Rack and Transfer to Dragon
POLAR – Polar removal from Express Rack and Transfer to Dragon
WRK – Water Fill Procedure Review
METEOR – Familiarization with Experiment Plan
Rodent Research (RR) Camcorder Setup
RR – Retrieve habitat food bars from MELFI
RR – Habitat Restock
Dragon Departure Procedure Review
СОЖ Maintenance
Crew OBT, ROBoT onboard simulator, Release
CUCU Check
SPACE PUP – Data recorder transfer and packing
SPACE PUP – Samples retrieval from MELFI
SPACE PUP – Container with samples packing in protective film
WRK – Water Refill
Laptop transfer
DCB – Unpacking procedure review
DCB – DCB bags packing
SPRINT – Closeout Ops

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Dragon RoBOT OBT
CUCU activation
RR habitat restock
Nominal ground commanding

 
