
SlingShot:  To prepare for the Slingshot deployer installation, the crew reviewed the big picture words, then installed the slingshot heater and controller inside the Cygnus vehicle.  The team is still discussing a plan for the cables which could not be connected last week.  SEOPS’ SlingShot is a small satellite deployment system that fits inside the Cygnus spacecraft’s Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (PCBM). SlingShot can accommodate up to 18 satellites that are deployed post Cygnus unberth.
Payload Network Attached Storage (PL NAS): As a routine maintenance activity, the crew performed a deep cleaning of the inlet and outlet vents.  This is performed in order to prevent automatic shutdown of the unit due to inadequate airflow and resulting higher heat levels.  Note a PL NAS “no link” error is thought to be related to other network issues currently being discussed.  The Payload NAS is a file server with 5 hard drive bays that provides a total of 20 terabytes of raw disk space when used with 4 terabyte hard drives.  Among other capabilities, the PL NAS supports user file transfers from their machine via web browser, and allows onboard ISS systems to access a shared folder location on the NAS.
Systems 
Northrop Grumman-13 (NG-13) Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued Cygnus cargo operations in preparation for the vehicle departure, currently planned for May 11th. 
On Board Training (OBT) Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) Emergency Health Maintenance System (HMS) Contingency Drill Training: The crew conducted this OBT/drill which gives crewmembers the opportunity to work as a team to resolve a simulated medical emergency onboard ISS. The training refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment use, and procedures.
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: Today the crew performed their monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screening tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking and spatial processing.
Completed Task List Activities:

Slingshot Hardware Gather
Columbus D3 Rack Bags Fill
HRF Rack 2 Refrigerated Centrifuge Removal and Drawer Installation
WHC Air Hose (AH) Liquid Indicator (LI) R&R
WHC KTO Replace
IMV Flow Measurement Survey

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


ATS PPL Load
Slingshot Ground Support

