
Astrobee battery charge: In preparation for the Kibo Robot Programming Challenge activities which start in the next few weeks, the crew charged several of the batteries used by the Astrobee robots.  The Kibo Robot Programming Challenge (Robo-Pro Challenge), also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the International Space Station (ISS). This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers. This activity is based on Japan-U.S. cooperation through the Japan-US Open platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3).
Payload NAS (Network Attached Storage) cable swap:  The crew swapped the location of the 2 Ethernet cables on the PL NAS in an attempt to recover its connection to the network.  The activity was not successful, but this was not totally unexpected due to a suspected faulty cable, and the on-going PEHG-1 (Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway) issues.  The team is assessing a forward plan.  The Payload NAS is a file server with 5 hard drive bays that provides a total of 20 terabytes of raw disk space when used with 4 terabyte hard drives.  Among other capabilities, the PL NAS supports user file transfers from their machine via web browser, and allows onboard ISS systems to access a shared folder location on the NAS.
Slingshot:  Two connector reconfigurations were planned for today.  The crew was able to perform a middle bracket connector reconfiguration (reclocking) and get it in an acceptable configuration.  Unfortunately, there was not enough time remaining to perform the second cable activity and it will be replanned.  These reconfigurations are needed to support the planned Slingshot activities following NG-13 undock.  SEOPS’ SlingShot is a small satellite deployment system that fits inside the Cygnus spacecraft’s Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (PCBM). SlingShot can accommodate up to 18 satellites that are deployed post Cygnus unberth.
Systems
Node 2 Firewall Replacement: Today the crew swapped out a failed firewall, a network security device, with an onboard spare and powered it on for the ground to perform reconfiguration steps. The failed unit was a backup firewall for the Node 2 Edge Router. During a recent Joint Station LAN (JSL) firewall health and status check, the firewall failed to come back online following a reboot.
Lab Starboard 6 (LAB1S6) Cabin Fan Temperature Control Troubleshooting: Today the crew adjusted the Lab S6 Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Manual Flow Control Valve (MFCV) as part of temperature control troubleshooting.   The CCAA circulates, cools, and dehumidifies air in the USOS segment. Recently the Lab cabin temperature has been drifting slightly above the cabin setpoint, even with maximum airflow through the S6 CCAA Heat Exchanger. The MFCV was adjusted to a closed position and then re-opened. This adjustment is the first of several to acquire long term data trends.
Completed Task List Activities:

Node 1 Starboard Aft IMV Fan Cleaning

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


SSRMS Walkoff to N2 and SPDM Unstow
Thermal Amine Software Update
Lab MCA Activation and Full Calibration

