
Rodent Research-3 (RR-3) Transfer and Grip Strength Operations: The crew transferred rodents from their habitats to the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and completed grip strength measurements. Operations were completed ahead of schedule and was the first time on-orbit use of the Grip Meter. This was the first of three RR-3 sessions conducted this week that will study the molecular and physical changes to the musculoskeletal system that happen in space. Results will expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
 
Fluid Shifts Baseline Imaging in the Russian Segment Preparation: The crew gathered and transferred hardware from the US Segment to the Russian Segment and configured Ultrasound 2 hardware in the Service Module to support Fluid Shifts data collections while the crewmember is wearing Chibis Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) device. Fluids Shift is divided into three one-week segments: Dilution Measures, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging using the Russian Chibis. The experiment measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures.
 
Plant Gravity Sensing-3 (PGS-3) Closeout: Following yesterday’s successful PGS-3 Sample Fixation operations, today the Chemical Fixation Apparatus samples were inserted into the Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) in preparation for return on SpaceX-8. This concludes a two week Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) PGS-3 experiment run which studies whether plants grown in microgravity conditions can sense the changes in the gravitational acceleration and the concentrations of calcium in plant cells changes. Gravity is a critical environmental factor affecting the morphology and functions of organisms on Earth.
 
Radiation Dosimeter inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): After retrieving the RaDI-N hardware from the Russian crewmember, the USOS crew deployed all 8 Space Bubble Detectors in various locations in the ISS for the Radi-N2 experiment. The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation is conducted by measuring neutron radiation levels while onboard the ISS. RaDI-N uses bubble detectors as neutron monitors which have been designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Dose Tracker: The crew configured the Dose Tracker app and completed entries for medication tracking. This investigation documents the medication usage of crew members before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS.
 
Intra-module Ventilation (IMV) Reconfiguration: Yesterday, in an effort to reduce ppCO2 levels, ground commanding was performed to implement split ventilation between the USOS and Russian segments. The system has not yet reached a steady state, however, ppCO2 is trending lower than the Node 3 CDRA/Vozdukh combination was able to support in the previous configuration. Teams continue to monitor CO2 closely as they characterize the new configuration.
 
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) Survey: Robotics Ground Controllers are currently making preparations to survey the AMS using various cameras from various Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS)/Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) positions. The survey is being performed to understand the state of the payload as well as to obtain detailed views of the payload. Following the survey SPDM will be stowed on Mobile Base System 2 (MBS 2) and SSRMS will be maneuvered to a translate configuration.
 
Dragon Cargo Transfer Status: The crew has completed ~34.5 hours of cargo transfer with ~13.5 hours remaining to be completed.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Verification of anti-virus scan results on Auxiliary Computer System [ВКС] laptops / r/g 8247
ESA Weekly Crew Conference
Rodent Research (RR)  Camcorder Setup
Observation and photography using Photo Equipment / r/g 2137
Monitoring hardware activation / r/g 2116
ENERGY Closeout Ops
PGS3 SMPL Sample Insertion into MELFI
MRM1 Fan Screen Cleaning (Group C) / Ventilation and Air Conditioning System [СВКВ]
PGS3 SMPL Sample Transfer from MELFI
Complete the Dose Tracker application – Subject
PILOT-T. Preparation for Experiment / r/g 2122
RS ISS Module Photos (DC1, MRM1, MRM2) / r/g 2114
Rodent Research (RR)  Animal transfer to MSG and back
Rodent Research (RR) Measurement Ops
Rodent Research (RR)  Animal transfer to MSG and back
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops / r/g 2122
Rodent Research (RR) Measurement Ops
FLUID SHIFTS. USOS H/W Gathering
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops / r/g 2123
Rodent Research (RR)  Animal transfer to MSG and back
Life On The Station Photo and Video / r/g 2000
FLUID SHIFTS. H/W Transfer to RS
FLUID SHIFTS. Ultrasound 2 Setup in SM
Grab Sample Container (GSC) Sampling Operations
FLUID SHIFTS. Connecting Ultrasound Equipment to РБС / r/g 2127
HABIT Video Recording
PILOT-T. Closeout Ops / r/g 2123
HABIT Preparing for the experiment
PAO Hardware Setup
HABIT Procedure Review
Water Resource Management (WRM) Initiate Condensate Sampling
Disconnecting data cable from BRI / r/g 2126
Crew Prep for PAO
DOSETRK Data Export
PAO Event
Environmental Control & Life Support System (ECLSS) Tank Drain
Preventive Maintenance of FS1 Laptop (Cleaning and rebooting) Handover / r/g 1023
MATRYOSHKA-R. Gathering and Initialization of Bubble-Dosimeter Detectors r/g 2117
Preventive Maintenance of FS1 Laptop (Cleaning and rebooting) / r/g 1023
Water Resource Management (WRM) Terminate Condensate Sampling
BRI Cleaning (monthly) Handover / r/g 1841
DRAGON Transfers
BRI Monthly Maintenance r/g 1841
Rodent Research (RR) Camcorder Setup
Environmental Control & Life Support System (ECLSS) Tank Drain Part 2
RADIN Handover of detectors to USOS for deployment
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeters to USOS / r/g 2117
RADIN Dosimeter Deployment
MATRYOSHKA-R.  BUBBLE-dosimeter detector initialization and deployment for exposure r/g 2117
WRS  Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
HABIT Camcorder Setup
Experiment Ops with СКПФУ Hardware r/g 2125
Copy and Downlink Data / r/g 2116
HABIT Video Recording
WRS  Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
СОЖ Maintenance
Configure power cables to XF305 for future use
P/TV Photo/TV Additional Camcorder Setup
IMS Delta File Prep
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

C2V2 checkout
SSRMS powerup/AMS survey
Nominal ground commanding

 
