
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): Manifold #2 Bottle of High Percentage Oxygen was swapped out for a fresh bottle. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Human Research Facility-1 (HRF-1): The crew performed a resupply of HRF-1 hardware and accessories. HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Human Research Facility-2 (HRF-2): The H2 Stowage drawer handles at location COL1A4 were replaced with new handles. HRF-2 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables human life science researchers to study and evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by spaceflight. Research performed using HRF-2 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
High school students United with NASA to Create Hardware (HUNCH) Ball Clamp Monopod: Demonstrations of the Clamp Monopod hardware were performed in areas in or around the Cupola, Lab, and the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). Photo documentation was taken and downlinked. The HUNCH Ball Clamp Monopod is intended to provide a semi stable platform for holding cameras when tracking targets on the ground or when taking images/video in the center of a module or the MSG/Life Science Glovebox (LSG), and will be easy to move out of the way for emergency activities.
MSG: A supply audit was performed for the MSG. The MSG is a rack-level payload facility located in the LAB Module on the ISS. MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present and is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
NanoRacks CubeSats Deployer-25 (NRCSD-25): The NRCSD-25 Deployers were removed and stowed from the JEM Airlock slidetable. NRCSD-25 deployed six different satellites: NEUDOSE will measure and map the real-time radiation dose received by astronauts performing Extravehicular Activities (EVAs). YukonSat demonstrates using student-designed satellites for on-demand display of art and audio recordings from Northern Peoples. The project also supports a world-wide game with coded messages to be deciphered by amateur radio operators working together. AuroraSat uses satellites to support design and development of projects by Indigenous and Inuit students. Ex-Alta 2 demonstrates the use of student-designed and developed satellites to predict, monitor, and assess wildfires. LightCube is a student-built satellite with a remote-controlled flash bulb. Amateur radio operators using low-cost equipment can activate the satellite from the ground and produce a brief flash visible to the naked eye. ARKSat-1 demonstrates ground tracking of a CubeSat with a bright LED light. This system of an emitter of light and a ground chaser with receiving and tracking capabilities can measure material between spacecraft and could be used to study atmospheres of other planets and moons in the solar system.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Blower Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew replaced the Lab CDRA Blower and performed an R&R of the Lab CDRA CO2 Selector Valve 103. The Blower was installed, but the ground team was unable to successfully reactivate Lab CDRA due to a fault triggered by the Fan Motor controller (FMC). Additional troubleshooting options are being developed. CDRA maintains carbon dioxide partial pressure levels within specified limits, while minimizing air and water losses to space. It uses a series of desiccant and adsorbent beds to selectively remove water vapor and CO2 from the cabin atmosphere.
Post EVA Activities: Today, the crew performed multiple tasks following the USOS EVA #86 for Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval. The crew began by removing Li-Ion Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Batteries from the Battery Stowage Compartment, and beginning a terminal charge of the batteries using the EVA Battery Operations Terminal. The crew stood down from battery operations after a Remote Power Controller (RPC) tripped in the Airlock. Next, the crew cleaned any remaining adhesive residue on Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) using Antifog and Gray Tape. The crew then conducted an audit of the EMU wrist mirrors, isolating the unusable units in zipper bags. Finally the crew installed the Lower Torso Assembly (LTA) Restraint Strap and LTA Stowage Bag on the EMUs for bundling and transferring to the EMU Don-Doff Assembly (EDDA).
Completed Task List Activities:

N/A

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SSC Surface Pro 5 Initial Configuration
NASCOM IONET Preventative Maintenance
Lab CDRA Checkout
Lab AR Rack Activation
ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain Support

