05-04-2010May 04, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/04/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. At wake-up, FE-6 Creamer & FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson continued their new week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), TJ’s 5th, Tracy’s 2nd, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Still before breakfast, Timothy began Part 1 (of 3) of the periodic personal acoustic measurement protocol by deploying crew-worn acoustic dosimeters from the SMK (Sound Measurement Kit), carried by Caldwell-Dyson, Creamer and himself for 24 hours (with a microphone on the shirt collar).  (Last time done: 4/20-4/21).     [Tomorrow, TJ will download the dosimeter data and stow the instruments.  Acoustic data must be taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.]  Preparing the newly arrived Progress cargo ship for access, FE-3 Kornienko installed the BVN fan/heater assembly with air duct.  CDR Kotov worked on the recently deployed RS (Russian Segment) Remote Laptop (#1118) in the US Lab (loc. P5), loading it with the new vers. 8.04 software, followed by tests supported by ground specialist tagup.  Later, Skvortsov & Kotov used the Remote Laptop to check out & test command & data connections to the external URM-D Universal Work Platform, installed in 2005 during Russian EVA-12 by Leroy Chiao & Salizhan Sharipov (Exp. 10) on the SM RO (Working Compartment), large diameter.  In the SM (Service Module), Oleg then connected the KTsP2 Central Post Computer 2 to the new BRI (SSR/Smart Switch Router) network.   FE-1 Skvortsov meanwhile serviced Progress-delivered high-priority science payloads, i.e., moving BTKh-6/ARIL, BTKh-7/OChB and BTKh-41/BACTERIOFAG from the TBU thermostat-controlled incubator (at +29 degC) to the KRIOGEM-03 (at +4 degC), then switching TBU temperature to +37 degC for the remaining BTKh-40/BIF payload.  Afterwards, Alexander prepared the new RBO-3-3 Matryoshka radiation payload by inserting the new set of dosimeters delivered on 37P in the spherical “Phantom”.    Next, Skvortsov, Kornienko & Noguchi transferred the Matryoshka equipment to the USOS (US Segment) for installation in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), after FE-6 Creamer had cleared up JPM rack space for the instrumentation setup.     [The Matryoshka facility has been used on the ISS for radiation science experiments since 2004, as follows:  MTR-1 was performed outside the ISS/SM with active & passive detectors 2/26/04 – 8/18/05; MTR-2A was performed inside (DC-1), with passive detectors only, 1/5/06 – 12/7/06); MTR-2B was conducted inside the Russian part of the ISS (DC-1 & SM) with active & passive detectors from 10/18/07 – 3//09.  The new Matryoshka-Kibo is the fourth experiment performed with the Matryoshka facility onboard the ISS; it covers for the first time measurements made inside the Japanese Kibo JPM, complementing the earlier Matryoshka results by adding radiation data acquired during a different phase of the solar cycle.]   With the Rodnik water tanks of the SM filled up, the CDR configured the pumping equipment and initiated potable water transfer from the Rodnik BV2 storage tankage of Progress M-04M/36P (due to be undocked on 5/10) to the BV2 tank of Progress M-5M, monitoring the compressor-driven transfer throughout the day.     [Each of the spherical Rodnik tanks BV1 & BV2 consists of a hard shell with a soft membrane (bladder) composed of elastic fluoroplastic.  The bladder is used to expel water from the tank by compressed air pumped into the tank volume surrounding the membrane and is leak-tested before urine transfers, i.e., with empty tanks, the bladders are expanded against the tank walls and checked for hermeticity.  There were160L of water in the BV2 tank of 36P, 50L in BV2 of 37P.]  In Node-3, FE-2 reconfigured the TEPC (Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter) power cable to prevent interference with the T2/COLBERT operations.    [The TEPC detector assembly, primary radiation measurement tool in the ISS, had been moved to Node-3 (F3) from the SM on 4/22).]  Also in Node-3, Tracy worked on the T2 treadmill to align and center its rack for a planned push test on Friday (to check on swaying space), and a hoped-for lock-down for use on Monday, followed by the ACO (Activation & Checkout) runs.  TJ Creamer & Tracy Caldwell-Dyson completed the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh their CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on administration of intravenous (IV) fluid infusion for TJ, eye treatment issues in Tracy’s case.   [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]   Later, Sasha, Misha & Tracy worked their way through the one-hour CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) Medical Contingency OBT (Onboard Training) drill.    [Objective is to practice crew communications & coordination necessary to perform medical emergency procedures using such equipment as the ACLS, ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack) & AED (Automated External Defibrillator), performing hardware deployment & rescuer positioning, and conducting simulations of CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation), deployment & use of the CMRS (Crew Medical Restraint System), reviewing prevention of oxygen “bubble” build-up when using the RSP (Respiratory Support Pack), etc.]  After activating & inspecting the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), Timothy Creamer spent a large part of his day on working with the new IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation) payload in the MSG, preparing sterile saline solution and transferring it to storage bags for return to Earth.    [Purpose of IV Gen is to demonstrate a prototype system to produce SWI (Sterile Water for Injection) in a zero-G environment.  Fluid physics data will allow for appropriate system scaling to meet advanced requirements of medical treatment and care capabilities for exploration missions to remote places, e.g., Mars.  Operating within the MSG, the experiment will produce bags of purified water from potable water, preferably the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) output or from CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodine) stores.  GN2 is used to push the water into the Purifier.  After purification, the water is mixed with NaCl (Sodium Chloride, i.e. common table salt) to produce a normal saline solution for intravenous infusion.  This solution will be returned to Earth for testing.]   With all remaining propellants in Progress 36P transferred, TsUP/Moscow today (~9:15am EDT) performed the standard vacuum purging of the Progress fuel (ZUG) and oxidizer (ZUO) lines, venting prop residuals in the plumbing between Progress & SM into space, with prior attitude control handover to the Russian MCS (Russian Motion Control System) at 9:07am and return to USOS at ~11:45am).  Earlier, Tracy had also closed the protective shutters of the Lab, Kibo & Cupola science windows.  Caldwell-Dyson spent time with new DOUG (Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) material, reviewing the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) activities planned for on FD3 (Flight Day 3) & FD8 of the ULF-4 docked period.  Later, FE-2 installed the new ERNOBOX in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) at the aft port cone and established SUP (Standard Utility Panel) power & data connections, before switching the equipment on.    [The ERNO (Entwicklungsring Nord) box contains various radiation devices, including LEON-2 CPU (Central Processing Unit) developed by ATMEL/France and ESA, new memory devices, large SRAM (Static Random Access Memory)-based FPGAs (Field-Programmable Gate Arrays), and MEMS (Microelectromechanical Systems) sensors.  The radiation-hardened LEON-2 microprocessor chip is the first implementation of a LEON CPU-core in silicon, with SPARC compliance.  SPARC (Scalable Processor Architecture), invented by Sun Microsystems Inc., is an open set of technical specifications that any person or company can license and use to develop microprocessors and other semiconductor devices based on published industry standards.]  As next step, Tracy assembled the VID (Vessel ID) system and installed it at the COL aft port cone, connecting its power & data lines to the ERNOBOX and the RF (radio frequency) outlet to the antenna.   FE-5 Noguchi prepared for the long-overdue installation of the RWS (Robotic Workstation) at the Cupola.    [Steps included removing the handrail which had blocked the Cupola DCP (Display and Control Panel) connection to its UOP (Utility Outlet Panel) due to shortness of the power cable, then powered up the CUP DCP, reconfigured the Node-1 JSL (Joint Station LAN) network by installing a new Progress 37P-delivered cable to extend JSL hard-line connectivity into Node-3 to enable Cupola Robotics operations on ULF-4, and performed DCP checkout.]  In Node-3, Noguchi also installed a new WAP (Wireless Access Point) for the network extension.  FE-6 powered up the SDRM (SpaceDRUMS/Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix) experiment hardware, turning it off again ~4.5 hrs later, after data capture.    [SpaceDRUMS suspends a solid or liquid sample using 20 acoustic beam emitters during combustion or heat-based synthesis.  Materials can be produced in microgravity with an unparalleled quality of shape and composition.  SpaceDRUMS will support scientific understanding of processes like combustion synthesis and self-propagating high temperature synthesis and also provide direct commercial benefits from materials processing.  Advanced ceramics, polymer, and colloids can be processed in SpaceDRUMS.]  In the US Lab, Creamer inserted the KFTs (Kennedy Fixation Tubes) from yesterday’s plant harvesting (2B) of the APX-C (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit-Cambium) experiment in MELFI-2 (Dewar 2/Tray C/Sections 3-4).  Later, TJ conducted the periodic WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) in Node-3, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.    [After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]  Creamer also conducted the monthly FDS PEP (Fire Detection & Suppression/Portable Emergency Provisions) safety inspection/audit in the ISS modules, including QDMAs.    [The 30-min IMS-supported inspection involves verification that PFEs (Portable Fire Extinguishers), PBAs, QDMAs and EHTKs (Extension Hose/Tee Kits) are free of damage to ensure their functionality, and to track shelf life/life cycles on the hardware.  (There are 2 PFEs, 1 PBA, 1 QDMA, 1 EHTK in Node-1, 1 PFE, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs 2 EHTKs in Node-2, 1 PFE, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs, 1 EHTK in Node-3, 1 PFE, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs in A/L, 2 PFEs, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs, 1 EHTK in the Lab, 2 PFEs, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs in JPM, 1 PFE in JLP, and 2 PFEs, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs in COL.)]  With the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) again running nominally, producing water from urine, FE-2 performed another fill of the UPA WSTA (Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly), from a Russian EDV-U (urine collector-water container), using the EDV transfer hose, instead of PTU (Pretreat Urine) T-valve, and an electric compressor.  FE-3 Kornienko, assisted by CDR Kotov, took the periodic (generally monthly) health test with the cardiological experiment PZEh MO-1 (“Study of the Bioelectric Activity of the Heart at Rest”) on exercise equipment.  Later, Mikhail assisted FE-1 Skvortsov in his first PZEh MO-1 session.     [Equipment used were VPG/Temporal Pulsogram and 8-channel ECG/Electrocardiogram Data Output Devices (USI).  The tests took place during RGS (Russian Groundsite) overflight windows (at 7:54am & 9:23am, resp.) via VHF for data downlink from the VPG and Gamma-1M ECG for about 5-6 minutes.]  Misha conducted the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur),  Sasha completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  FE-5 Noguchi serviced the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) by removing the internal EDV-U urine collection container and replacing it with a fresh one.  Later, Soichi performed the monthly reboot of all active PCS (Portable Computer System) laptops in the Lab and JPM plus the COL PWS (Columbus Orbital Laboratory Portable Workstation) laptop and recorded the battery SOC (state of charge) of each active PCS.  Shortly before sleep time, Kotov will set up the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his 8th experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  CDR, FE-1, FE-2 & FE-3 had their regular PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Misha at ~8:55am, Sasha at ~12:00pm, Tracy at ~1:35pm, Oleg at ~2:50pm EDT.  At ~7:20 am, the Japanese Flight Engineer prepared the G1 camcorder for an upcoming JAXA Space School session and performed a voice & image test with the ground over the time-limited HD ICS (Inter-Orbit Communication System) high-rate data link.     [With the primary objective being to conduct interactive lessons from JPM, Soichi will lecture students about the difference of physical phenomenon between 0G & 1G using the ICS communication link which is able to connect Kibo and SSIPC (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center) in Tsukuba directly.  Students and Soichi will be able to communicate via live video and voice during the lecture. JAXA has selected 6 students from the public.]   For their exercise sessions on the TVIS treadmill, Timothy & Soichi donned the Glenn treadmill harness with installed transducer instrumentation, then activated the harness.     [Afterwards, FE-5 & FE-6 downloaded the harness data (including achieved “body weight”) and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).  The harness SDTO uses both TVIS and T2.]  The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-1, FE-2, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Singapore (nadir pass.  Singapore is an island city-state 35 miles long, separated by a narrow waterway, the Johore Strait, from the Malaysian mainland), Libreville, Gabon (looking left on one of the major estuaries.  With 580,000 inhabitants, Libreville hosts nearly half the Gabonese population.  It was named by slaves freed from a slaving ship in 1848), Brasilia, Brazil (nadir pass.  The city can be difficult to identify as it lies within an extensive agricultural landscape and neighboring cities.  However, two main visual cues are the lake on the shores of which the new Brazilian capital was built in 1960 [Lago Paranoá], and the dark, vegetated landscape of the nearby national park.  In detail, the swept wings of the “bird-shaped” layout of the city is unique), and Paramaribo, Suriname (near-nadir pass.  Looking on the estuary of the Suriname River.)  