
SpaceX (SpX)-14 Dragon Departure: Saturday morning the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to position the SpX-14 Dragon for release. 
At 08:22 am CT the Robotic Controllers commanded the release of the Dragon and then backed the SSRMS away, while the ISS crew monitored and commanded the Dragon to depart.  After Dragon had departed, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position and then provided video support of the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) petals closure.  Dragon splashed down in the Pacific Ocean on Saturday at 2:00 pm CT and arrived safely at port earlier today.  
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR):  During activation of the CIR on April 27th, a hard drive for the Image Processing and Storage Unit (IPSU) failed.  Today the crew removed the failed drive, which will allow the IPSU to boot up from a second hard drive. The final E-Field Flames run will be executed after verification of proper operation of the CIR. The ACME experiments being performed in the CIR include five independent studies of gaseous flames. The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth.  Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability. 
Intracranial Pressure & Visual Impairment (IPVI): A 53S crewmember took front and side profile view pictures of himself today to check for facial edema, followed by a conference with ground experts. The IPVI investigation studies changes to crewmembers’ eyes and optic nerves by analyzing arterial blood pressure and blood flow to the brain before and after spaceflight. This investigation uses non-invasive methods to measure intracranial pressure instead of the more common invasive methods.
Vascular Echo:  Today a crewmember attached Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes to himself, marked his femoral artery and then performed an ultrasound scan with remote guidance from the ground team.  They also took a blood pressure measurement. The Canadian Space Agency Vascular Echo investigation examines changes in blood vessels and the heart while the crewmembers are in space, and then upon their return to Earth. The results may support development of additional countermeasures to help maintain crew health. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Today the crew initiated a charge of the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Batteries (LLB) and also initiated an automated Charge-Discharge-Charge cycle on the EVA batteries in the Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) using the Battery Charger Assembly.  After preparing the Equipment Lock and EMUs for suit donning, the crew completed an On-Orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV) to verify correct EMU sizing for the upcoming US EVA Pump Flow Control System (PFCS) relocate EVA, currently planned on 16-May.
External High Definition Camera (EHDC) Troubleshooting:  Last week, during the External TV Camera Group (ETVCG) assembly, the Ext HD Camera (EHDC) would not fully lock into place when installed onto the Color TV Camera (CTVC).  After conducting additional troubleshooting, to include attempting assembly with a spare EHDC, the crew was unable to achieve a nominal mating between the two cameras. Pictures, video, and audio of the various locking attempts were captured for review by ground specialists.  
Latching End Effector (LEE) Force-Moment Sensor (FMS) Characterization:  Following the on-orbit R&R of the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) LEE-A at the end of 2017, the FMS circuitry was characterized as part of checkout operations.  New FMS Configuration Data Files (CDFs) were developed using this data and are ready for commissioning to ensure the parameter selection is appropriate and the system behaves as intended. This evening, Robotics Ground Controllers will perform these commissioning operations and gather data for post-processing. If required, additional FMS CDFs can be developed using this data in order to support the operations requiring FMS during the SpaceX-15 mission in July. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test
iPad Air 2 Update Prep
Surface Sampler Kit (SSK) and Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Analysis T + 5
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Questionnaire
Intracranial Pressure & Visual Impairment (IPVI) Face Photo-taking
Vascular Echo – Echo Ultrasound Setup for Ultrasound Scan Session
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Initiate
Intracranial Pressure & Visual Impairment (IPVI) Medical Conference
Vascular Echo 125min Scan – Subject
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 System (T2) Monthly Inspection
Restow Node 2 Nadir Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK)
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Airlock Unstow
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Initiation
Vascular Echo CDL Holter Arterial BP Measurement – Subject
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Equipment Lock Preparation Part 1
Vascular Echo – Echo Ultrasound Stow
Columbus HD-VCA1 R&R
СОЖ maintenance
MELFI 2 Ice Brick Insert 1
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Deactivate VCA1
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
Combustion Integrated Rack Optics Bench Translation Out
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) On-orbit Fitcheck Verification
Camcorder setup to capture БД-2 exercise
Combustion Integrated Rack Hard Drive Replace
Combustion Integrated Rack Optics Bench Translation In
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Removal of Video Equipment Used to Capture БД-2 Exercise and Downlink the file
Combustion Integrated Rack Doors Close
Portable CO2 Monitor Power On and Deploy
MERLIN 3 Desiccant Removal
Biomolecule Sequencer Surface Pro 3 Software Update
Checking БД-2 treadmill carriage position. 
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
MELFI 1 Ice Brick Insert 1
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
Troubleshoot and Install the External High Definition Camera (EHDC) onto the External TV Camera Group (ETVCG)

Completed Task List Activities

PMM Prep Part 1 [Completed GMT 126]
DATA Prep for Return – FE5 

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


SSRMS FMS commissioning

