
Payloads
AC Touch: Per standard procedure, the crew touched both the coated and uncoated coupons for this long-term investigation. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests is an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems, as well as create the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples will remain in space for approximately six months and then will return to Earth for analysis.
Celestial Immunity: The crew performed activities related to the inoculation, treatment injection, and sample collection for the Celestial Immunity cultures.  This starts the 3 weeks of activities related to the experiment.  This project seeks to gain a broad understanding of how gravity affects overall human immune function and potentially uncover novel pathways of immune function that can be exploited to develop better vaccines and immunobiologics for human use. The project will build on earlier studies that evaluated lymphocyte (a type of white blood cell) function in microgravity. The project will also evaluate whether gravity-regulated immune pathways are affected by age by examining cells from young adult and elderly donors in parallel.
Myotones: The crew reviewed the big-picture words, set up the appropriate hardware, and performed a Myotones measurement session with the Myotones device.  The Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones) investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g. muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth, as well as for future space missions.
SUBSA prep: The crew gathered the appropriate hardware and reviewed the procedures for the later installation of the SUBSA hardware in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  The first SUBSA investigation to be performed will be the BRAINS investigation. BRazing of Aluminum alloys IN Space (SUBSA-BRAINS) examines differences in capillary flow, interface reactions, and bubble formation during solidification of brazing alloys in microgravity. Brazing technology bonds similar materials (such as an aluminum alloy to aluminum) or dissimilar ones (such as aluminum alloy to ceramics) at temperatures above 450°C. It is a potential tool for construction of human space habitats and manufactured systems as well as repair tool for damage from micrometeoroids or space debris.
Systems
Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) Ultra High Frequency (UHF) Communications Unit (CUCU) Removal – The CUCU system was retired in place post SpaceX-20, with the hardware remaining installed in Expedite the Processing of Experiments to the Space Station (ExPRESS) Rack 6 Locker 7.  In order to prepare for an upcoming payload that will be installed in the Locker 7 location, the CUCU was disconnected and removed from the rack today. The connection made today also applies to the external UHF antennas which will be tested via ground pass tests scheduled tomorrow and Thursday with Armstrong Flight Research Center.  The ground pass tests will evaluate the SSSR/UHF signal strength and full end to end path as a final confirmation that the system is operating nominally.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Secondary Oxygen Pack (SOP) Swap – Crew completed an activity to swap SOPs between EMU 3006 and EMU 3004.  The SOP (S/N 1013) originally installed on EMU 3004 has a leak rate within spec that is approaching the minimum Go/No-Go pressure.  Swapping the SOPs between suits will install SOP S/N 1013 on EMU 3006, which is closer to the end of its certified life and is planned to return on SpaceX-24.
Crew Alternate Sleep Accommodation (CASA) Bumpout Configuration – Ground teams reviewed photos of CASA with the bumpout collapsed as part of the final approval for internal stowage and identified that the front panel is not installed onto the side panels as expected.  Teams are working a forward plan to resolve the configuration.
Robotic Operations – Yesterday the Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite 7 to Worksite 2, and the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) was maneuvered to a park position.  Today the SSRMS was maneuvered to External Stowage Platform 3 (ESP-3) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) successfully grasped and extracted the NiH2 Battery Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) from Site 6.  Robotic operators are preparing to translate the MT to Worksite 3 and install the NiH2 battery and FRAM on Cygnus Site 1 for disposal.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) Stow
HRF Rack 1 Rack Power Up Commanding
Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Zero Calibration

