
OsteoOmics:  The crew thawed BioCells and injected them into growth media inside the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). After all six BioCells are processed were placed into BioCell Habitat 2 which is then placed in the Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL).  Later in the day the crew removed a media kit from a Microgravity Experiment Research Locker / INcubator (MERLIN) and inserted it into an ambient Cargo Transfer Bag for the next day’s operations. This is the first of four weeks of OsteoOmics operations.  Crewmembers experience bone loss in orbit, stemming from the lack of gravity acting on their bones. OsteoOmics investigates the molecular mechanisms that dictate this bone loss by examining osteoblasts, which form bone, and osteoclasts, which dissolve bone.  Improved understanding of these mechanisms could lead to more effective countermeasures to prevent bone loss during space missions and in a wide range of disorders on Earth. This may lead to better preventative care or therapeutic treatments for people suffering bone loss as a result of bone diseases like osteopenia and osteoporosis, or for patients on prolonged bed rest.
Fluidics:  The crew replaced fluid tanks and performed the third and final Fluidics run today.  Following completion of the run the crew deinstalled the Fluidics hardware from the seat-tracks in the Columbus module. Fluidics is a fluid mechanics experiment with two main objectives:  a Slosh Study to investigate fluid behavior under microgravity during satellite maneuvers, and a Wave Turbulence Study to investigate the impact of capillary effect on wave turbulence without being masked by the effect of gravity.  Two tanks with different filling rations (50% and 75%) for Slosh and one tank with water for Wave Turbulence are used.  
Sprint Ultrasound 2 Operations:  The crew set up a camera and video, configured Ultrasound 2, placed reference marks on the calf and thigh of right leg, donned Sprint (Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study) thigh and calf guides, and performed thigh and calf scans with guidance from the Sprint ground team. Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Meteor Hard Drive Swap: The crew changed out the Meteor hard drive located in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF). The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument with the primary purpose of observing meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. Since the parent comets or asteroids for most of the meteor showers are identified, the study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids. 
On-Board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware: The 49S crew completed this regularly scheduled training to re-familiarize themselves with locations of equipment and positions of valves used in emergencies. During training, the crew will consult with specialists at Mission Control Center (MCC)-Houston, MCC-Moscow, Columbus Control Center and Space Station Integrated Promotion Center (SSIPC). 
External Thermal Control System (ETCS) Non-propulsive Vent:  Ground controllers performed a planned ETCS Loop B Radiator Beam Valve Module (RBVM) P1-3-2 vent.  The ammonia vent was performed in an effort to isolate a slow leak suspected on ETCS Loop B.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

On MCC GO Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Cartridge (start)
DAN. Experiment Ops. 
Fluidics Run 3 execution
OsteoOmics MSG Operations
ALGOMETRIYA. Measurement Prep and Ops in Strain- and Thermo-Algometry Modes
ISS Crew Orientation
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Electrical Power System Contingency Jumper Installation Big Picture Words Review
Recharging Soyuz 733 Samsung PC Battery (if charge level is below 80%)
Integrated Emergency Procedure Review
Strata Payload Deactivation
Fluidics Closeout Activities
Electrical Power System Contingency Jumper Installation Big Picture Words Review
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Ultrasound 2 Configuration System Settings Backup [Deferred]
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
ALGOMETRIYA. Strain Measurements Mode
Data Transmission Radio Link (RSPI). Clearing files from Onboard Memory Storage (БЗУ).
Removal of Battery Module No.2 ПТАБ-1М (pos.А302).
Sprint Ultrasound Operations First Time – Subject
Closing Shutters on windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14
Sprint Guide Donning Operator
Emergency Mask OBT.
Glacier Desiccant Swap Alternate
USOS Window Shutter Close
Test connection of Sony PMW-EX1R and Sony PMW-200 camcorders, Starting NASA MPEG-2 Viewer application. Deactivation of TV System equipment, Crew Onboard Support System (КСПЭ) equipment and closing NASA MPEG-2 Viewer
RFID Power Up
Fluidics Ending of data copy and T61p Laptop stowage
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization
Integrated Emergency Hardware Familiarization.
ESA ACTIVE DOSIMETER MOBILE UNIT SWAP
Meteor Hard Drive Set Swap
Electrical Power System Contingency Jumper Installation Big Picture Words Review
Terminate Soyuz 733 Samsung PC Battery Charge (as necessary)
Downlink data from Sony PMW-EX1R and Sony PMW-200 camcorders via ОСА
RFID Power Up

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

OsteoOmics support
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound support 

