05-06-2009May 06, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/06/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. \   Progress M-01M/32P successfully undocked from the ISS FGB nadir port this morning at 11:17am EDT after hook opening command at 11:15am.  The first separation burn was on time at 11:21am, as was sep burn #2 at 2:24pm.   Data for structural and dynamic analysis was obtained from the IWIS (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System) and SDMS (Structural Dynamic Measurement System).  Additional activities and testing are planned for the vehicle over the next several days and de-orbit is planned on 5/18 at approximately 3:00 pm.  The ship will then deorbit for destructive reentry over the Pacific Ocean.    CDR Padalka, FE-1 Barratt & FE-2 Wakata began their workday before breakfast with the periodic session of the Russian biomedical routine assessments PZEh-MO-7/Calf Volume Measurement and PZEh-MO-8/Body Mass Measurement, using the IM mass measurement device which Padalka then stowed away again.  Second time for all three.   [Calf measurements (left leg only) are taken with the IZOG device, a custom-sewn fabric cuff that fits over the calf, using the knee and lower foot as fixed reference pints, to provide a rough index of deconditioning in zero-G and effectiveness of countermeasures.  For determining body mass in zero-G, where things are weightless but not massless, the Russian IM "scales" measure the inertial forces that arise during the oscillatory motion of a mass driven by two helical metering springs with known spring constants.  By measuring the time period of each oscillation of the unknown mass (the crewmember) and comparing it to the period of a known mass, the crewmember’s mass is calculated by the computer and displayed.]   FE-2 Wakata verified closure of the protective shutters of the Lab window, to be reopened well after Progress departure.   Wakata also powered down the amateur/ham radio equipment in the SM (Service Module) to prevent RF interference with the departing cargo ship.   In preparation for the Progress 33P docking on 5/12, CDR Padalka & FE-1 Barratt completed the standard three-hour training course with the TORU teleoperator system, which provides a manual backup mode to the Progress’ KURS automated rendezvous radio system.  Afterwards, Gennady & Mike tagged up with a TORU instructor at TsUP/Moscow via S-band audio.   The FE-2 performed the regular controlled shut-down of the EHS VOA (Environmental Health System-Volatile Organic Analyzer), with the ground power-cycling its RPC-3 (Remote Power Controller 3), part of RPCM (RPC Module) LAD42B_A.   Wakata practiced special QD (Quick Disconnect) maintenance procedures in preparation for the subsequent preventive maintenance on the CHeCS MTL (Crew Health Care Systems Moderate Temperature Loop) jumpers, focusing on delivering a very small amount of Braycote-601 lubricant oil with a syringe at a specific point.  Koichi then demated the MTL jumpers of the ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) in the Lab and lubricated the supply and return jumper QDs to minimize risk of ITCS leaks during future demates.    [The CHeCS rack was removed from the ITCS (Internal Thermal Cooling System) as a part of an assessment to increase cooling to future payloads within the US Lab.  Cooling to the CHeCS rack will be returned when the VOA (Volatile Organic Analyzer) is active (Monday through Wednesday).]   FE-1 Barratt successfully completed rearranging the SAMS (Space Acceleration Measurement System) equipment between the U.S. Lab and the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  The SAMS ICU (Interim Control Unit) was co-located in the ER-1 (EXPRESS-1) rack along with one SAMS sensor drawer plus the MAMS (Microgravity Acceleration Measurement System).    [The purpose of this activity was to consolidate the equipment, so by activating a single rack, both SAMS and MAMS acceleration data can be obtained.]   In the US Airlock, the FE-2 performed maintenance on the BCMs (Battery Charge Modules) by checking and updating the parameter tables on BCMs 4 & 3 several times, inspecting the BSA vents and fan vents, and cleaning them where necessary.    [Misentered or garbled parameters are a possible cause of the BC4 over-discharge anomaly that occurred pre-15A.  Updating error handling parameters on BCM1 & BCM2 will prevent these units from reinitiating a charge on a battery which has overtemped.]   Gennady Padalka undertook the Russian MO-5 MedOps protocol of cardiovascular assessment during graded physical load on the VELO cycle ergometer, assisted by Mike Barratt as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).     [The assessment uses the Gamma-1 ECG equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels.  Measurements were telemetered down via VHF to RGS (Russian Groundsite) during a comm window at 12:42pm EDT.  For the graded-load exercise, the subject works the pedals after a prescribed program at load settings of 125, 150, and 175 watts for three minutes each.  Data output involves a kinetocardiogram, rheoplethysmogram, rheoencephalogram and a temporal pulsogram.]   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup & post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2) and VELO with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).    Afterwards, Koichi Wakata downloaded the exercise data file to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  