
Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU)2 Robotic Remove & Replace (R&R): Last night, Robotics ground teams completed the extraction of the spare MBSU Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) from External Stowage Platform 2 (ESP-2) and successfully relocated it on the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP).  Then, the SPDM was used to unfasten the secondary H1 bolts and to break torque on the primary H2 bolts on both, the new spare and the failed unit.  Ground teams are currently executing steps to remove the failed MBSU from the S0 truss and install the spare.  Power up of the new MBSU is expected to occur tomorrow morning, followed by the powerdown and power up of the Direct Current Converter Units (DDCU) S02B to remove the Lab Truss Contingency Jumper (LTCJ) and return the external loads to their nominal configuration.  The removal of the Lab Secondary Power Distribution Assembly (SPDA) jumper and associated DDCU LA2B powerdown is planned for Monday.. 
OsteoOmics:  The crew thawed BioCells and injected them into growth media inside the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). After six BioCells are processed they are placed into BioCell Habitat 4, which is then placed in the Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL).  Later in the day  crewm removed a media kit from a Microgravity Experiment Research Locker / INcubator (MERLIN) and inserted it into a Cargo Transfer Bag at ambient temperature for the next day’s operations. This completes the first of four weeks of OsteoOmics operations.  Crewmembers experience bone loss in orbit, stemming from the lack of gravity acting on their bones. OsteoOmics investigates the molecular mechanisms that dictate this bone loss by examining osteoblasts, which form bone, and osteoclasts, which dissolve bone.  Improved understanding of these mechanisms could lead to more effective countermeasures to prevent bone loss during space missions and in a wide range of disorders on Earth. This may lead to better preventative care or therapeutic treatments for people suffering bone loss as a result of bone diseases like osteopenia and osteoporosis, or for patients on prolonged bed rest.
Genes in Space 2: The crew completed a session of the Genes in Space 2 experiment. They retrieved a sample from a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) and inserted it into the miniature Polymerase Chain Reaction (miniPCR) system for processing. The Genes in Space 2 investigation is based on the winning student proposal from the second Genes in Space competition. It tests whether the polymerase chain reaction can be used to study deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) alterations on board the ISS.  Spaceflight causes many changes to the human body, including alterations in DNA and a weakened immune system.  Understanding whether these two processes are linked is important for safeguarding crew health, but DNA technology that can track these changes is relatively untested in space. 
Sarcolab-3: The crew set up hardware for next week’s third and final joint-NASA-ESA-Russia Sarcolab experiment with a 49S crewmember. They deployed and configured the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) in the Columbus module. Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus (calf muscle) where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body.  Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Status:  Yesterday the crew reported a high loading problem with CEVIS. Overnight, the crew and ground teams performed troubleshooting and isolated the issue to a faulty control panel. The control panel was replaced and CEVIS is now go for unrestricted crew use.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Node3 Power down Impacts for MBSU 2 R&R
CEVIS Contingency Controller (CCC) Installation
Position two camcorders to provide insight into excessive resistance reported on GMT 124.
WHC Water Container-Urine (ЕДВ-У) Configuration [Deferred]
OsteoOmics MERLIN Removal
SREDA-ISS. Photo Spectral System (ФСС) Battery Charge (start)
Perform Evaluation of CEVIS Workload with Contingency Controller to determine if Issue lies with Ergometer or Control Panel.
Columbus cabin cleanup in support of MARES deployment
Node3 power down Impacts for MBSU 2 R&R
CEVIS Eval/ACO Camera Stow
Plug-in-Plan Utility Outlet Panel Hardware Power Down
SARCOLAB-3 Big Picture reading
CONSTANTA-2. Cassette removal from ТБУ-В and setup on panel  for 1-hour warmup
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
Symbolic Activity
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Separator Plumbing Assembly (SPA) Remate
iPad No.14 and No.15 setting checkout for emergency training
Node3 power down Impacts for MBSU 2 R&R
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
CONSTANTA-2. Preparation and Execution 4
At Home In Space Questionnaire
ISS HAM Columbus Pass
MARES deployment
SREDA-ISS. Preparation Steps and Observation Start
MARES deployment
Genes in Space MWA Preparation
Cupola Window Shutters are closed
MELFI to MERLIN Sample Transfer
Genes in Space MELFI Sample Retrieve
At Home In Space Questionnaire
Genes in Space Sample Operations
Genes in Space Payload Message Record
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Stow
MARES Power On and Battery Charge
Symbolic Activity
MARES Ankle configuration installation
Genes in Space Sample End
Long Duration Sorbent Testbed Status Check
Water Recovery and Management (WRM) Condensate Swap to LAB1D5 Tank
SREDA-ISS. Closeout Ops
Fast Neutron Spectrometer Troubleshoot
Miniature Exercise Device Tape Place
MARES Battery Charge
Space Acceleration Measurement System Hardware Move
OsteoOmics MSG Operations
IMS Update
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
Video Recording of Greetings
MARES Battery Charge control
OsteoOmics BioCell Thaw
EMG and PEMS installation
Progress 435 (DC1) Stowage and IMS Ops
OsteoOmics Thaw Bag Retrieval
SSC 22 Power Down
Photo TV EVA Go Pro Battery Charging
Waste Hygiene Compartment Deactivation
NanoRacks Module-55 Troubleshooting Part 1 of 2
Glacier Sample Remove
NanoRacks Module-55 Troubleshooting Part 2 of 2
Genes in Space Hardware Stow

Completed Task List Items

None 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

OsteoOmics support
MBSU Robotic R&R

