
Fluid Shifts (Chibis): The crew performed the first of two days of their LBNP data collection.  This week, two crewmembers will each perform two days of LBNP data collection.  Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronauts’ eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
JAXA Mouse Mission: The crew transferred the mice from SpX-17 to the ISS and completed related activities to begin the experiment.  Six mice were transferred to the 1G area of the CBEF and six mice were transferred to the 0G part of the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility).  The Mouse Mission analyzes alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term (e.g. more than 30 days) space environment.  Data collected could suggest not only experimental information about mice in the space environment, but also fundamental information about humans exposed to a prolonged space environment. 
MicroAlgae:  The crew homogenized the culture bags to remove bubbles and deployed them. Microalgae Biosynthesis in Microgravity (MicroAlgae) studies the effects of microgravity on Haematococcus pluvialis, a tiny freshwater algae capable of producing a powerful antioxidant known as astaxanthin. It could provide a readily available dietary supplement to promote astronaut health on long-duration space exploration missions. This research was proposed by a community college student and alumna of the NASA Community College Aerospace Scholars (NCAS) program. 
MVP Cell-01:  The crew installed six experiment modules into the MVP facility and took photos.  The Cartilage–Bone–Synovium (CBS) Micro-Physiological System (MPS) Using the Multi-purpose Variable-G Platform (MVP) (MVP Cell-01) studies a disease called Post-traumatic Osteoarthritis, in which a traumatic joint injury may lead to arthritis after loss of cartilage and bone. The ability of potential drugs to prevent the progression of this disease is tested on Earth and in space. The MVP facility is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others.  It includes internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity.
Nano Antioxidants:  The crew installed of twelve Nano Antioxidants Experiment Containers in the Kubik 5 facility and started the experiment run. The aim of the Nano Antioxidants investigation is to research innovative approaches for cellular stimulation to counteract the negative effects of long-term microgravity on the musculoskeletal system. There are numerous possible applications of this research project in other crucial social domains, such as healthcare of the elderly and of people with muscle atrophy disorders, through the implementation of new therapeutic strategies in the treatment of diseases involving oxidative stress as causing factor. 
STaARS (Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems) Bioscience-3: The crew installed six BioScience Experiment Containers into the STaARS Facility for processing.  Later in the day and according to the nominal experiment plan, three of these containers were removed and placed in -80 deg C cold stowage. The Spaceflight Effects on Vascular Endothelial and Smooth Muscle Cell Process (STaARS BioScience-3) investigation contributes to a greater understanding of cardiovascular disease (CVD) through the study of transcriptomics of vascular cells. Upon return from spaceflight, crew members often display alterations in their cardiovascular systems, similar to those suffering from CVD. The goal of this work is to elucidate the mechanism of vascular cell damage in the space environment by exposing vascular cells to spaceflight.
TangoLab- Mission-11:  As part of TL Mission 11, the crew attached the appropriate cubes onto two cards and installed them into the TangoLab-2 unit. The cubes installed were PENN_TOC01 (Lung Host Defense in Microgravity), TNGO_CCM04 (Cell Culture Module Fluid Behavior Demonstration), and UFLA_DEP01 (Electrodeposition Observation in Microgravity).  TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS.  Of note, the Lung Host Defense in Microgravity investigation uses organ-on-a-chip technology to create three-dimensional models of the lung and bone marrow from living human cells. Researchers infect the artificial organs and compare how lung cells respond and how white blood cells mobilize from the bone marrow into the blood stream in microgravity versus on Earth.
Dragon Cargo Transfer Status: Following SpX-17 arrival yesterday, the crew started transferring cargo and completed ~7.5 hours of operations. Today the crew removed the Center Stack, then retrieved and unpacked the Dragon Cargo Transfer Bags (CTB) and Double Coldbags (DCB). 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Dragon cargo transfer
SSRMS Dragon ungrapple
MT translation from WS3 to WS6

Look Ahead:
Wednesday, 05/08 (GMT 128):
Payloads:

Actiwatch Plus check
Fluid Shifts Chibis ops
JAXA glovebox
JAXA Mouse Mission
Kidney cells
Life Science Glovebox
Low Temp PCG sample prep
Microalgae
Micro-14 inoculation
Mass Measurement Device stow
PAUL hardware installation
Rodent Research-12

Systems:

Powered ascent utility locker hardware installation
Dragon capture debrief with ground
Dragon LiOH filter bag removal 

Thursday, 05/09 (GMT 129):
            Payloads:

BCDU JOTI reconfig
CSA/Bioanalyzer
Fluid Shift setup
Kidney Cells
Microalgae
Micro-14
MISSE MTT remove
PCG-14, POLAR desiccant swap
RR access unit clean and hab restock
Staars Bioscience 3 EC remove
Team Task Switching

Systems:

EVA battery charging
EVA METOX regen 

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


FLUID SHIFTS. Comm configuration for the experiment
Fluid Shifts OCT2 Service Module Setup
Transfer Center Stack
FLUID SHIFTS. Gathering and Connecting Equipment for TV coverage
FLUID SHIFTS. Connecting HRF PC3 Laptop (in lieu of RSE1)
VHF-2 test from Soyuz 742 via US ground sites
Fluid Shifts OCT2 Service Module Power On
Checkout of Precision Vertical Wide Angle Sight (ВШТВ)
Inspection and photography of Lateral Passive Docking Assembly hatch mounts (MRM1)
Fluid Shifts CCFP Service Module Configuration
Fluid Shifts DPOAE Service Module Setup
FLUID SHIFTS. Donning CHIBIS set
FLUID SHIFTS. Assistance with LBNP vacuum set CHIBIS and Medical Hardware Set operations
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Service Module Setup
Scheduled ВП-2 Pilot’s Sight Test
Fluid Shifts Experiment Service Module Data Collection Operator
Fluid Shifts Experiment Service Module Data Collection Subject
Dragon F1A2 Locker Removal
Cold Stowage Double Coldbag Unpack 2
PCG-18 Hardware Photography
CTB RETRIEVE
Scheduled PUMA Test
FLUID SHIFTS. Doffing CHIBIS vacuum set
Fluid Shifts CCFP DPOAE Service Module End
Fluid Shifts OCT2 Service Module Power Off
Polar and JAXA TCU Dragon Uninstall and Polar Transfer and EXPRESS Rack Install
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Service Module Stow
FLUID SHIFTS. Connecting Laptop RSE1 (in lieu of HRF PC3)
Fluid Shifts OCT2 Service Module Stow Alternate
PBR MELFI Insert
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems BioScience Experiment Container Installation
Cold Stowage Cold Stow Box Unpack
FLUID SHIFTS. Deactivation of КСПЭ Equipment and Closing Applications on SSC1
Installation of  Nano Antioxidants Experiment Containers in Kubik
FLUID SHIFTS. Comm reconfig for nominal ops
Photo taking during Nano Antioxidants
US Hardware Transfer to Russian Segment
Life on the Station Photo and Video
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
Diagnostics of FGB Power Supply System Filter Unit and Main Bus Assembly using oscilloscope
Cargo Transfer to Dragon
Cold Stowage Double Coldbag Unpack 1
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems BioScience-3 Experiment Container Removal
XF305 Camcorder Setup
JAXA Mouse Mission Pre-feed Animal Transfer 1
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
STAARS MELFI Bitran Bag Sample Insertion
Multi-use Variable-g Platform Cell-01 Insert
Diagnostics of FGB Power Supply System Filter Unit (БФ-2) and Main Bus Assembly (БСШ-2) using Infra-Red camera
Multi-use Variable-g Platform Cell-01 Historical Photos
Micro Algae Maintenance Work Area Preparation
MicroAlgae Culture Bag Homogenization and Deployment
Micro-14 MSG Setup.
JAXA Mouse Mission Cage Removal from CBEF IU 1G
Mouse Habitat Unit Washer Tank Inspection
JAXA Mouse Mission Pre-feed Animal Transfer 2
MATRYOSHKA-R. Tritel Hardware Monitoring
Weekly monitoring of video recording equipment performance on the ISS RS
IMS Delta File Prep
Photography of ТП228 dummy thermal sensors on the external surface of MRM2
Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) Activation
Transportation Cage Unit Cleaning
MERLIN Sample Transfer (while MERLIN is in Dragon)
TangoLab-2 Card Cube Replace
MICRO ALGAE Culture Bag Daily Stow
Transportation Cage Unit Sub Components Setup

 