05-03-2009May 03, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/03/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – off-duty day for CDR Padalka, FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Wakata.   Ahead: Week 5 of Increment 19.   FE-1 Barratt continued his first session of sleep logging for the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight) from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long run.  This is similar to Barratt’s BCD (Baseline Data Collection) which was performed pre-flight for comparison.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, Dr. Mike wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as his patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and uses the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Barratt performed the daily status check on the BCAT4 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4) science payload, running by itself since 5/2.    [The status check, conducted on the last image taken by the DCS 760 digital still camera which is controlled by EarthKAM software on an A31p laptop, is to verify proper image focus and camera alignment.  The SSC (Station Support Computer) is taking photography of the phase separation occurring in the BCAT Sample 3, with the photo flash going off every half hour.]   Padalka performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.  Additionally, Gennady checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP-Moscow.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Gennady also conducted the periodic checkup behind panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.   At ~4:20pm EDT, Mike Barratt will have his weekly PFC (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio & Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup & post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2) and ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2).   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).   