
Payloads:
Myotones: The crew performed skin marking on the designated experiment target areas and took measurements using the Myotones device. The Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones) investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g. muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth as well as for future space missions.
Photocatalyst: The crew checked that no items are blocking the intake fans of the Photocatalyst experiment hardware, which is set up in Node 3. Photocatalyst demonstrates the use of a photocatalyst device to clean the cabin air and remove odor caused by volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The device converts VOCs into carbon dioxide and water. The device and a non-photocatalyst control device will operate for at least four weeks before returning to Earth for analysis of the photocatalyst device’s effectiveness.
Standard Measures (SM): Sample collection and questionnaire activities continued in support of the SM investigation. The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes and support future research on planetary missions.
Rhodium Crystal Preservation: Images were taken of the four Rhodium Crystal science chambers and they were prepared for return to the ground for analysis. A Novel Crystal Preservation Method for Biological Material (Rhodium Crystal Preservation) studies a technique using crystal formation to preserve biological material for research. Such preservations can present a challenge for research outside of standard laboratory settings. Crystals do not require special conditions such as cold stowage to maintain the material’s structure for future analysis and could provide a solution.
Systems:
Crew-3 Endurance Return Preparation: Activities were performed to prepare for the departure of Crew-3 Endurance crew including cargo packing, emergency equipment transfer and farewell ceremony. A change of ISS command ceremony from Crew-3 Commander Tom Marshburn to 67S Commander Oleg Artemyev was also performed. Crew-3 Endurance is scheduled to depart ISS on May 5. 
1B Solar Array Wing (SAW) Photography: Today, crew took still imagery of the 1B SAW blanket from the MRM2 forward and starboard windows. Using the Nikon D5 cameras, imagery was taken of the 1B SAW left blanket and inboard Flat Collector Circuit (FCC) in order to assess potential damage of that area. Ground teams will be analyzing the imagery in the coming weeks.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Systems configurations for Crew-3 undock
Crew-3 Dragon Checkouts for undock

