05-02-2010May 02, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/02/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday – short crew rest day (8 hrs).   Ahead: Week 7 of Increment 23. Crew sleep cycle shift:  Wake:  9:30am – 5:30pm (in order to return tomorrow to normal cycle)  At wake-up, CDR Kotov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the currently running Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [CDR again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also at wake-up, FE-6 Creamer continued his current medical protocol of Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), his 4th onboard run, performing the urine pH spot test (not sampling) and later logging his dietary intake.    [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Pro K diet participation and logging are required for a full 24 hours, to coincide with one 24hr void-by-void urine collection.  If crewmembers sleep-shift over the time period of the void-by-void collections, they should continue participation to achieve a full 24hrs of collection.]  Later, Timothy started his 24-hour urine collections of his Generic HRF (Human Research Facility) urine sampling protocol, with Noguchi taking documentary photography.  Later in the day, Creamer broke out and set up the equipment for collecting his blood samples tomorrow.     [The operational products for Blood & Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]  After breakfast, FE-5 Noguchi supported the weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.     [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.]   In preparation for tomorrow morning’s DTF (Dedicated Thruster Firing) of Progress 37P, scheduled at ~3:08am EDT, Soichi closed the protective shutters of the Lab, Kibo & Cupola high-quality windows.   FE-1 Skvortsov did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  CDR Kotov completed the periodic switchover of the Russian STTS telephone/telegraph subsystem to an alternate subset, today to the backup string after operating for some time on the primary string.    [The "Voskhod-M" STTS enables telephone communications between the SM, FGB, DC1, MRM2 and USOS (U.S. Segment), and also with users on the ground over VHF channels selected by an operator at an SM comm panel, via STTS antennas on the SM’s outside.  There are six comm panels in the SM with pushbuttons for accessing any of three audio channels (LINE-1,-2,-3), plus an intercom channel (VPU).  Other modes of the STTS include telegraphy (teletype), EVA voice, emergency alarms, Packet/Email, and TORU docking support.]  TJ performed a check on the Scopemeter batteries for the new IV GEN (Intravenous Fluids Generation) activity, scheduled to begin tomorrow..  At ~11:55AM, Sasha Skvortsov had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  The crew completed a shortened physical workout protocol on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-2, FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-5), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  Progress 37P Update:   During the 37P rendezvous yesterday, after completion of the Impulse 5 burn the automated rendezvous sequence was automatically aborted by the Progress vehicle, triggered by a sensed thruster failure on both DPO manifolds at the initiation of the attitude maneuver back to line-of-sight tracking.  Skvortsov & Kotov took over manual TORU mode at a range of 1000 m and completed the docking at the DC1 Docking Compartment.  Until TsUP-Moscow specialists have analyzed the issue, 37P will not perform ISS roll-axis attitude control.  All maneuver burns will be done by SM thrusters.  