05-10-2010May 10, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/10/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Underway: Week 8 of Increment 23.  Progress M-04M/36P successfully undocked from the SM (Service Module) Aft port on time at 7:16am EDT after hook opening command at 7:13am.  36P will free-fly for approximately 8 weeks on autonomous mission and is scheduled to re-enter destructively on 7/1.    [Earlier, Caldwell-Dyson closed the protective shutters of the Lab, Kibo & Cupola windows, until about 5:20pm tonight (well after the 21S thruster test at ~1:27pm-1:28pm). Creamer turned off the amateur/ham radio equipment.  Skvortsov & Kornienko monitored the undocking with photo & video cameras (through SM window 36), focusing in particular on the Progress docking mechanism to verify that there were no missing or damaged O-ring seals on the docking interface.  FE-3 later switched the SM-to-Soyuz PEV (Pressure Equalization Valve, Russian: KVD) manually to its Closed position, a standard post-undocking procedure, and downlinked the pictures.]  At wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the currently running Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).   [FE-3 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-1 Skvortsov did the daily morning check on the TBU Universal Bioengineering Thermostat container and reported its current internal temperature to TsUP-Moscow.   To cover the 36P departure, CDR Kotov, FE-5 Noguchi & FE-6 Creamer had set up and tested the video equipment.     [After hooking up the UOP DCP (Utility Outlet Panel/Display & Control Panel) power bypass cable at the Lab RWS (Robotic Workstation), Oleg & Soichi configured the RS (Russian Segment) video “scheme” which utilizes TV conversion on a laptop to U.S. NTSC format and Ku-band of the RS video signal from the SONY HDV camera via MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoder from FGB & SM, in order to downlink “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.   The checkout test with the ground was then conducted from 9:50am-10:20am EDT on Ku-band.  Later, TJ shut down the associated conversion laptop, an A31p (SSC-1) in the FGB, on which the crew monitors the video stream during the approach & docking.]  Skvortsov & Kotov each took the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, spending an hour on the TVIS treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.     [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmember rests for 5 min., then works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h for 2 min, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h for 1 min, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace to 3.5 km/h.]  FE-1 also tested BSK (Common Power Switching Timer, Blok silovoiy kommutatsii) circuitry in the SM.    [Sasha used the Elektronika MMTs01 Multimeter and two jump wires to measure voltages at a connector of the BSK-0,5 box power feed line F3.]  Later, Alexander & Mikhail reviewed and made preparations for the installation of SUBA IUS Rate Sensor interface cables, scheduled tomorrow, which will connect the BSK with other electronics packages such as BSV-M Master Clock, Liulin-MKS electronics unit, BSMM Multiplex Bus Synchronization Unit/computer, BSPN payload server, etc.  For the Soyuz TMA-17/21S relocation (PRST) from the FGB Nadir to SM Aft on Wednesday (5/12), Kotov, Noguchi & Creamer conducted a review of flight procedures and completed the standard 3-hr. PRST training drill for the mission using the onboard laptop-based simulator and supported by ground specialists via tagup on S-band/VHF-audio.    [The OBT (on-board training) included Soyuz procedures and data analysis for ascent/descent, orbital flight and relocation as contained in RODF (Russian Operations Data File) books, tag-up with instructor, and OBT simulator work on the RSK1 laptop.]  Starting at ~12:55pm and lasting approximately one hour, CDR Kotov conducted the pre-relocation thruster test of the Soyuz 21S spacecraft.    [The firing, using KDU Combined Propulsion System Section 2 & KDU Tank Section 2, was set for 1:27pm-1:28pm.  DPO lateral control thrusters were not fired.  The GA Gas Analyzer in the Soyuz SA Descent Module remains On until after the relocation.]  Tracy Caldwell-Dyson completed a loaded list of activities including –  Working in the A/L (Airlock) to configure EVA (Extravehicular Activity) tools for the ULF-4 spacewalks,Cleaning out the A/L, assisted by Soichi Noguchi, by removing all non-EVA hardware, including SAFER (Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue) unit #1004 and any spare PHA (Prebreathe Hose Assembly),Verifying that the EV1 & EV2 compartments in the EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) equipment bag are empty,Readying the A/L and all 3 EMUs for EVA operations, with helmet sun shields pulled down and helmet covers installed,Reviewing new uplinked DOUG (Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) material for the upcoming Robotics operations, followed at ~11:00am by a Robotics conference with ground specialists [DOUG is a software program on the MSS (Mobile Service System) RWS laptops that provides a graphical birdseye-view image of the external station configuration and the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) arm, showing its real-time location and configuration on a laptop during its operation],Working in Node-3 on the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) rack to remove & replace an expired ACTEX (Activated Carbon/Ion Exchange) filter cartridge in the flush water jumper, andSpending about 90 min on more cargo prepacking for ULF-4.  Continuing the current round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, Mikhail Kornienko inspected & cleaned “Group A” ventilator fans and grilles in the SM, then changed out the cartridges of the four dust filters (PF1-4), discarding the used cartridges.  Tasks performed meanwhile in the RS by Alexander Skvortsov included –  Installing a sampling container (#6577) & gas/liquid separator upstream of the BKO FGS gas-liquid mixture filter, preparatory to the periodic collection of KAV condensate water sampling from the Russian SRVK-2M condensate processor scheduled tomorrow,Collecting water samples from the BRP-M (Modified Water Distribution & Heating Unit) in the SM, after flushing out its TEPL warm port valve several times with water from an EDV container and catching it in a second EDV, then drawing the samples in two drink bags for return to Earth.Completing another photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining data on oceanic water blooms in the Pacific Ocean (east of New Zealand) and offshore waters of Chile, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop,Starting charging the battery for the SONY HVR-Z1J camcorder for the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment scheduled for another run tomorrow at SM window #9, andConducting the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM  [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.  Mikhail meanwhile performed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Noguchi started another sampling run (the 93rd) with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.     [Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Soichi set up the photo equipment at the BLB (Biolab) rack and took documentary photographs of the WAICO -2 (Waving & Coiling of Arabidopsis at Different Gravity Levels 2) payload inside the BGB (Biolab Glovebox), after removing WAICO ECs (Experiment Containers) from the centrifuge, later replacing them at their nominal locations.  The photos were to be downlinked.  CDR Kotov had another ~90 min set aside for more newsreel shooting using the using the SONY HVR-Z7 #2 high-definition camcorder as part of the ongoing effort to create a photo & video imagery database on the flight of ISS-23/24 (“Flight Chronicles”).     [Footage subjects are to be focused on include life on the station, personal hygiene, food intake, playing with water, enjoying weightlessness, exercise, moving about, station interior, Earth surface, space clothing, cosmonaut at work, station cleaning, etc.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]  Later tonight, Oleg unstows and sets up the equipment for the periodic Russian PZE-MO-10 "Hematokrit" testing which is scheduled tomorrow for him & Noguchi.   [MO-10 measures the hematocrit (red blood cell mass) value of the blood (it is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell mass {normal range: 30-45%} tends to go down over time).]  FE-5 & FE-6 had their regular PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Soichi at ~7:50am, TJ at ~12:45pm EDT.  It was Misha Kornienko’s turn today to do the regular weekly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization), primarily inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices) in contingency configuration, SLD cables for fraying and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time & date values.  For his exercise session on the TVIS, TJ donned the Glenn treadmill harness with installed transducer instrumentation, then activated the harness.     [Afterwards, FE-6 downloaded the harness data (including achieved “body weight”) and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).  The harness SDTO uses both TVIS and T2.]  In Node-3, Tracy completed the long awaited ACO (Activation & Checkout) of the T2 advanced treadmill.  Video and data are currently under review, and a formal GO for nominal operations was expected later today.    [Efforts by the crew to secure the MTL (Moderate Temperature Loop) jumpers prior to the ACO were unsuccessful due to bending “memory” of the hoses.  One of the jumpers is contacting the Y-Axis isolator bracket; in addition, the entire MTL line assembly is being compressed as the rack is in motion.  Ground engineers are assessing long-term impacts and developing mitigation plans.]  The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-5), TVIS treadmill (CDR/2x, FE-1, FE-3, FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2).   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  