05-17-2009May 17, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/17/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – off-duty day for CDR Padalka, FE-1 Barratt & FE-2 Wakata.   Ahead: Week 7 of Increment 19.   The CDR performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.  Additionally, Padalka checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP-Moscow.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Gennady also conducted the periodic checkup behind panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.   The FE-1 completed the daily status check on the BCAT-4 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4) science payload, running by itself since 5/12 on Sample 5.    [The status check, conducted on the last image taken by the DCS 760 digital still camera which is controlled by EarthKAM software on an A31p laptop, is to verify proper image focus and camera alignment.  The SSC (Station Support Computer) is taking photography of the phase separation occurring in the BCAT Sample 5, with the photo flash going off every half hour.]   The FE-2 performed the daily procedure of flushing the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) ambient line with ~50mL of water (into a towel/Ziploc bag).  PWD water is currently cleared only for hygienic use, pending Russian approval.     [While final analysis of the PWD sample results on the ground is still pending, experts recommend keeping water flowing in the line daily to help control microbial growth.  The flushing will be done daily unless at least this amount has been dispensed for other activities during the day).]   At the Lab CHeCS (Crew Health Care System) rack, Mike Barratt mated the ITCS MTL (Internal Thermal Control System Moderate Temperature Loop) return umbilical with QD (Quick Disconnect) to the rack UIP (Utility Interface Panel) to provide cooling to the rack.   At ~3:10pm EDT, Barratt & Wakata are scheduled for a 30-min teleconference with ground specialists to discuss tomorrow’s major IFM (In-Flight Maintenance) to remove the UPA FCPA (Urine Processor Assembly Fluids Control & Pump Assembly) check valve and associated FCPA shims.   [Processing runs of the UPA for checkout will follow on 5/19 (Tuesday).]    At ~4:45pm, Koichi Wakata has his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) scheduled, via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup & post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2) and ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2).   Gennady had five job items on his discretionary “as time permits” task list for today:-    Searching      for a BVN air heater fan (#3)  [recommended search sites:      In DC1 near DC-Soyuz SU hatch; in the FGB behind panel 113 in a bag with      the Assembly Unit], Performing the periodic documentary close-up      photography of the two SKK materials exposure payloads mounted on the      outside of the station,- SKK-2 on the “Pirs” Docking      Compartment (DC-1) from SM window #6, and SKK-9 on the SM hull from the      DC-1 EVA hatch window   [the digital images are then to be transferred      to the RSK-1 laptop’s removable hard disk for return to Earth and      also downlinked to the ground via OCA],   Conducting the      periodic audit/inventory of RS (Russian Segment) medical kits (which total      about 35), Setting      up the St. George Ribbons (lentochek) delivered on      Progress 33P on an interior panel so that they are visible during TV      conferences [the traditional patriotic “St.      George’s Ribbons” event observes the 64th      Anniversary of the WW2 victory in August], and Another session for      Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and      taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using      the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.    No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.  (In recent days, ISS daylight-awake orbit tracks have shifted rapidly into the Southern Hemisphere which is now some seven weeks into the fall season, and both day length and sun elevation are significantly lowering.  This situation along with deteriorating seasonal weather greatly limits good view opportunities for targets.  The situation is further aggravated by the fact that the ISS orbit tracks nearly parallel with the terminator.  The consequence is very low light right of track, low light near nadir, and adequate to good light left of track.  Beginning a few days ago and for the near future, there may be no targets with suitable illumination or weather.)   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).   