
Payloads:
Antimicrobial Coatings (Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings): Per standard procedure, the crew touched both the coated and uncoated coupons for this long-term investigation. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests is an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space for approximately six months and then return to Earth for analysis.
AstroPi:  A crewmember recorded a short video showing Columbus and the student codes running on both AstroPi LED displays. Photos of astronaut together with both AstroPi units were taken. Two augmented Raspberry Pi computers (called AstroPis) flown to the International Space Station as part of British ESA Astronaut Tim Peake’s mission are available for use during French ESA Astronaut Thomas Pesquet’s Proxima mission. The computers are both equipped with the mighty Sense HAT (Hardware Attached on Top) that measures the environment inside the space station, detect how the station moves through space, and pick up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different kinds of cameras: one has an infrared camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera.
Celestial Immunity: The crew retrieved Vented Bags containing the 24-Well Plate from SABL-3 and collected the final samples and trashed the 24-Well Plate. Dissecting the Influence of Gravity on Human Immune Function in Adults and the Elderly (Celestial Immunity) builds on earlier studies to evaluate how gravity affects functional immune response, from innate mechanisms of defense to adaptive responses. It uses peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from both elderly and younger adult donors to facilitate the study of possible age-associated effects. The investigation could uncover novel immune pathways useful for the development of new vaccines and drugs to prevent and treat existing and emerging human diseases.
Dreams: A crewmember performed the headband setup in preparation for recording. The headband was then donned prior to sleep for the recording period. Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep, or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance. The Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (Dreams) is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the International Space Station (ISS).
MPEP (Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform): Crewmembers installed the Passive Capture Mechanism and MPEP to the JEM AL Slide Table. Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform provides the structural backbone for deployers when being transferred to the outside via the Kibo airlock and grasped by the JRMS robotic arm.
Systems:
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Ingress: Today, Crew ingressed into the BEAM module to retrieve the spare AAA Fan that is needed for this week’s WPA Gas Separator R&R Series as well as other items including the WPA Water Delivery ORU, ducting for the BPA filter install, and the ION Exchange ORU.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 3 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) Gas Trap Plug Removal: Today, Crew removed the gas trap plug as a preparation step for the WPA R&R and maintenance series that will take place throughout this week. 
In-flight Maintenance (IFM) Treadmill 2 and Water Recovery System 1 Rack Prep: Today, Crew removed some T2 components allowing for access to rotate the WRS-1 Rack (NOD3D5). This will allow crew to install the ARIS Pivot Fittings to the WRS Rack.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Urine Transfer System (UTS) Removal: Crew also removed and temporarily stowed the Urine Transfer System (UTS) on the NOD3D5 (WRS-1) Rack as a preparation step for maintenance operations occurring this week.
Hatch Seal Inspection: Today, Crew cleaned and inspected the USOS Hatch Seals, Hatch Plate Sealing Surfaces, and Crank Handle Mechanism for foreign object debris (FOD) or other damage.
Extravehicular Activity Battery Removal, Swap-out, and Autocycle: Crew removed the PGT Li-Ion (LPGT) Batteries and LREBA from the Battery Stowage Compartment. The Crew then installed new LPGT Batteries. Finally, Crew initiated a charge on Charger 1 and 2, Channel 3, for the new LREBAs and autocycled on Charger 1 and 2, Channel 4, for the original PGT Li-Ion (LPGT) Batteries using the EVA Battery Operations Terminal.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Oxygen Repress
Ground deactivation of T2 Rack and Disabling T2 Rack Smoke Detector
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer High Beta Power Operations and Commanding

