05-11-2011May 11, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/11/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Upon wake-up, CDR Kondratyev performed the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 (oxygen) generator.      [Maxim Suraev installed these filters on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Dmitri inspects the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.] FE-2 Borisenko terminated his 2nd experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  FE-1 Samokutyayev conducted his first onboard session of the Russian MedOps assessment MO-12, (“Study of the Veins in the Lower Extremities”), using the KARDIOMED (Cardiomed) complex with orthogonal leads which Oleg Kotov had installed in the SM in February 2010.      [After loading the RSE-med laptop with the Cardiomed software, Aleksandr set up the equipment, which involves KARDIOMED-TsB, KARDIOMED-KP, KARDIOMED-PMO and KARDIOMED-KRM assemblies with ECG (electrocardiogram) electrodes in a HOLTER monitor harness, a PLETISMOGRAF (Plethysmograph) instrument with calf measuring cuff, pneumatic hose, thigh occlusion cuff, hand pump & valve, and a DOPPLER complex.  A Plethysmograph (sometimes called a “body box”) is an instrument for measuring changes in volume within an organ or the whole body (usually resulting from fluctuations in the amount of blood or air it contains).] Later in the day, Borisenko also completed a session of the MedOps MO-12 assessment, his first. FE-6 Coleman performed regular service on the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), changing out its BC (Buffer Container) and priming (filling) the TOCA fluid line with water from the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) and buffer solution from the BC. Afterwards, Coleman had about 2h for relocating the MERLIN 2 (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker/Incubator 2) hardware from ER8 (EXPRESS Rack 8) in the Lab to ER6.      [After reviewing procedures for the relocation, Cady set up the G1 camcorder for video documentation of the activities, moved the hardware over, then connected cabling, installed the sensor harness and desiccant packs, and configured the MERLIN switches.  Later in the day, Cady checked the status of the unit and took documentary still photography.  MERLIN is part of the Cold Stowage Fleet of hardware which includes the MELFI and the GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator).] FE-3 Garan started his first 24-hr NUTRITION/Repository urine sample collections, with samples storing in MELFI, to be concluded tomorrow morning.  Later in the day, Ron set up the equipment for his associated generic blood draw, scheduled tomorrow, where Nespoli will assist with the phlebotomy as operator.     [Generic blood & urine procedures are used which allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.  Urine samples go into MELFI within 30 minutes after collection.  Every individual urine/blood sample tube must be labeled with time of void and Crew ID.  Barcodes can be called down, placed in crew notes or the barcode reader can be used.  For the blood draw, there is a prior 8-hr fasting requirement, i.e., no food or drink, but water consumption is highly encouraged to ensure proper hydration.  Exercise should not be conducted during the 8 hrs prior to the blood draw.] Afterwards, Garan worked in Node-1 where he installed a power cable to increase the power feeds to two ARCUs (American-to-Russian Converter Units, 53 & 54) in the FGB.      [The jumper, from a J1 power outlet forward in Node-1, was routed to the bulkhead gore panel at the Node-1 aft port, where the ARCUs are plugged in from the FGB side.  Paolo Nespoli assisted during the jumper installation since the ZSR (Zero-G Storage Rack) at bay P4 had to be rotated for the cable routing.]  Samokutyayev continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today cleaning the V3 fan screen in the MRM2 Poisk module.  Before the cleaning, Andrey was to take photographs. FE-2 Borisenko had ~40 min to perform an audit/inventory of Russian network & computer storage equipment, discarding old software CDs and repacking current BVS (Onboard Computer System), VKS (auxiliary laptops and TsN CDs.      Coleman performed the monthly inspection of the T2/COLBERT treadmill system and its components, checking pin alignment, rack centering and the snubber jam nut witness marks.    [Witness marks (12 total) are applied to the X-, Y- & Z-axis jam nuts on each (of four) snubber arm.  Their inspection serves to determine to what degree and which jam nuts are backing off.] After powering on the T61p PC1 laptop in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Cady downloaded the data from her 4th and final (FD135) ICV Ambulatory session last week (5/6), i.e., from two Actiwatches, two HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi CF cards and the Cardiopres data. Cady also conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks). Later, FE-6 broke out and configured the equipment for her 5th 24-hr urine collections under the NUTRITION/Repository protocol, starting tomorrow morning. Dmitri Kondratyev started his 3rd session of the standard 24-hour ECG (Electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2 protocol.       [After 24 hrs of ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system, Dmitri will doff the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads and recorded on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results will then be downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data will be downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.] Both FE-1 & FE-2 completed a data collection session for the psychological program MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”), accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was Sasha’s 3rd, Andrey’s 2nd onboard session with MBI-16.      [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.] In the SM (Service Module), Dmitri Kondratyev collected KAV condensate water samples from the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor (water recovery system) upstream of the FGS gas/liquid mixture filter/separator in two empty drink bags, a periodic check on the performance of the FGS, then changed out sampler & separator and collected KAV samples from upstream of the SRV-K2M BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit in four food waste bags.  The sampling equipment was then disassembled and discarded. Dima also completed the regular transfer of US condensate water from CWCs #1079 to the RS for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, then filling the designated KOV EDV container.      [Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.  The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.] The three Russian crewmembers joined up for another hour of handover activities, with which Kondratyev, who will depart on Soyuz 25S on 5/23, familiarized Samokutyayev and Borisenko (CDR of the next Increment, #28) with onboard functions. Andrey & Sasha had another 2h reserved for more video shooting in support of the Roskosmos Television Studio’s project to prepare a film, “ISS Tour”, requested by the Moscow Planetarium, intended for the commissioning of the renovated Planetarium on 6/12.  FE-3 took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Ron & Paolo again spent several hours on ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) cargo operations.      [Today’s activities mainly consisted of stowing trash in bays P2, S2 & O2 (lower portion).] Dmitri & Paolo had time set aside for personal crew departure preparations; these are standard pre-return procedures for crewmembers. At ~8:20am EDT, Garan had the regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.At ~ 3:15pm, FE-3 will conduct the daily tagup with MCC-Houston to debrief on today’s ATV cargo transfers. FE-3 & FE-6 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) scheduled, via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Cady at ~1:15pm, Ron at ~1:30pm EDT. Later tonight before “Presleep” period, Cady will power on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.] The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR/2x, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2). TVIS Update:  The TVIS treadmill exerciser is still No Go for the crew.  A major invasive maintenance job involving internal inspection and bearing change is being prepared.  Since TVIS is in the SM, close coordination with Moscow is required.  Meanwhile, the T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill is being used for aerobic exercise. GEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were B.P. Structure, Impact Crater, Libya (this small, 2 km in diameter, impact structure is located in the Libyan Desert near the Egyptian border.  ISS had a clear-weather, near-nadir viewing pass over this low-contrast feature in mid-morning light.  Although the circular structure of the crater is distinctive amongst the nearby ridges and hills the crew may not have been able to spot it.  The were advised to begin to take overlapping nadir-viewing mapping frames as they approached the target area - and continue as they passed over - to obtain detailed imagery of the crater), Andorra la Vella, Andorra (the capital of the tiny Co-principality of Andorra with a population of about 23,000 is situated in a small, high mountain valley of the eastern Pyrenees Mountains between France and Spain.  ISS pass was in late morning light with fair weather expected.  Looking carefully for this small target just right of track as ISS passed northeastward over the Pyrenees), and Sierra de los Ajos (ISS had a nadir pass in late morning light with clear weather for this tiny “sky island” target area.  Approach was from the SW over northwestern Mexico.  This club-shaped, roughly north-south range of mountains is situated in the northeastern part of the state of Sonora Mexico between the mining center of Cananea and the General Lazaro Cardenas Reservoir.  With elevations ranging from about 4,000 to 8,600 feet, the Sierra de los Ajos support an ecologically diverse, alpine-woodland habitat within the Sonoran Desert.  This includes them in the regional province of scattered highlands known as the Madrean Sky Islands of northwestern Mexico and the southwestern United States.  CEO researchers are seeking detailed mapping views of this target for baseline and change detection of this unique and threatened habitat). 