
Payloads
Astrobee mapping:  The crew assisted with the collection of calibration, localization and mobility data inside the JEM (Japanese Experiment Module).  This was performed to supplement data collected during the previous localization/mobility ops and will be used in support of the upcoming Kibo Robot Programming Challenge.  The Kibo Robot Programming Challenge (Robo-Pro Challenge), also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the International Space Station (ISS). This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers. This activity is based on Japan-U.S. cooperation through the Japan-US Open platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3).
Combustion Integration Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (CIR/ACME) : As a continuation of the ACME/s-Flame part 2 investigation, the crew removed a nitrogen check gas bottle and replaced it with a helium check gas bottle.  They also removed a H2/CH4/He fuel bottle and replaced it with one of the same gas mixture, but different percent composition.  Following the installation of the gas bottles, it was noted the actual pressure in the helium check gas bottle was significantly lower than expected and the team is assessing the impacts.  The purpose of s-Flame is to advance our ability to predict the structure and dynamics, including extinction and instabilities, of both soot-free and sooty flames. The results may contribute to the development of lean-burn engines for improved efficiency and reduced pollutant emissions here on Earth.  S-Flame is one of five experiments hosted by CIR/ACME which is designed to study gaseous flames.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS):  As a continuation of the JWRS work, the crew performed a check of the top and left side internal areas of the experiment hardware. The Demonstration JWRS will generate potable water from urine. In the past on manned spacecraft, urine and waste water were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Systems
Ultrasound Eye Exam: Today the crew used an ultrasound device to perform an eye scan, the first of several routine ultrasound eye exams during their stay on ISS. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmember’s eye health.  Eyesight is one of many aspects of the human body affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Lab MCA Full Calibration
CIR Ops Ground Support


Lab/Node 3 ITCS Temperature setpoint adjustments

