05-18-2011May 18, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/18/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. STS-134/Endeavour docked smoothly at the ISS PMA-2 (Pressurized Mating Adapter-2) port on time at ~6:14am EDT this morning, with all hooks closed by 6:30am, rigidizing the Shuttle/ISS linkup.  After successful completion of the RPM (R-Bar Pitch Maneuver) at ~5:23am, Endeavour arrived at +V-Bar (310 ft straight in front of ISS) at about 6:00am.  The station now hosts twelve occupants as Mission ULF-6 is underway.     [The combined crew is comprised of ISS-CDR Dmitri Kondratyev (Russia), FE-1 Aleksandr Samokutyayev (Russia), FE-2 Andrey Borisenko (Russia), FE-3 Ron Garan (USA), FE-5 Paolo Nespoli (ESA/Italy), FE-6 Cady Coleman (USA), STS-CDR Mark Kelly, PLT Gregory Johnson, MS1 Mike Fincke, MS2 Roberto Vittorio (ESA/Italy), MS3 Drew Feustel and MS4 Greg Chamitoff.  Welcome aboard, guys!] After the docking, the station was reoriented by the small vernier thrusters of the Shuttle (ORB mode) to minimize the risk of micrometeoroid/debris impacts upon the Shuttle, with the Endeavour’s belly turned opposite to the flight direction (-XVV = -x-axis in velocity vector, +z-axis in local vertical).    [Earlier, the ISS maneuvered to docking attitude after attitude control authority was handed over from USOS (US Segment) to RS MCS (Russian Segment Motion Control System) at ~4:11am.  Control returned from Shuttle ORB to US Momentum Management at 7:44am.  During today’s rendezvous, proximity operations & docking, the STORRM DTO (Sensor Test for Orion Relative Navigation Risk Mitigation / Development Test Objective was performed.  STORRM sensors are mounted in two locations:  The VNSDC (Vision Navigation Sensor & Docking Camera) is mounted on the ODS (Orbiter Docking System) truss.  The Star Tracker & data interface controller are mounted on an Orbiter sidewall carrier in the Payload Bay.  STORRM demonstrates and characterizes on-orbit performance of new navigation system technology prior to the first Orion mission to ISS.  Today’s data collection was monitored from Endeavour and data were also sent to NASA-JSC for further analysis. This test will be conducted again during Endeavour’s undocking from the ISS on FD 15.] Before the docking, Samokutyayev performed final STTS communications configuration checks for the docking.  Upon docking, Aleksandr switched USOS/RS (US Segment/Russian Segment) comm systems to their mated-flight mode. Other pre-docking preparations by the ISS crew included:FE-2 Borisenko activating the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment hardware in the SM (Service Module) for taking structural dynamics data during the Endeavour docking activities, later downlinking the dynamics measurements to the ground and closing out the data take;CDR Kondratyev, FE-3 Garan, FE-5 Nespoli & FE-6 Coleman readying their RPM photo equipment, including camera battery checks, for Orbiter TPS (Thermal Protection System) documentation, andConfiguring proper headset connection for supporting the RPM activity (which resulted in several hundred pictures of the Orbiter bottom TPS/Thermal Protection System). Ron Garan, who got up 3 hrs 5 min before the other crewmembers on his special Shuttle-crew sleep-cycle shift –Closed the external shutters of the Lab, JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) & Cupola windows as protection against Shuttle thruster plume contamination;Powered up PCS (Portable Computer System) laptops and connected the DCP (Display & Control Panel) power bypass cable at the Cupola RWS (Robotic Workstation),Enabled the RWS Cupola UOP (Utility Outlet Panel) power,Set up the DOUG (Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) application on SSC-17 (Station Support Computer 17) in the Cupola for SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) ops in support of the subsequent ELC-3 (External Logistics Carrier 3) transfer from the Orbiter,Prepared for N2 (nitrogen) transfer ops by closing the N2 valve VL013 behind the A/L (Airlock) OA2 panel andConfigured & later activated the camera timers upon Orbiter RPM initiation and handling the camcorder (the timers indicate beginning & end of the bottom-side photography window),Worked with CDR Mark Kelly to initiated the N2 transfer from Endeavour to ISS, and also the O2 (oxygen) transfer to the ISS high- and low-pressure O2 tanks, andFilled out his 6th weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)  [on the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.] During the RPM photo session (5:16am-5:31am), Cady & Paolo wielded 400mm- & 800mm lens D2X cameras, Dmitri the 1000mm-lens D2X for documenting the tile acreage & bottom-side door seals).      [The RPM was used by the crew for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the Shuttle.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the two “shooters”, had only ~90 seconds (out of the total 9 min of imaging) for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Endeavour, which Paolo prepared for downlinking after completion of the “shoot” at ~5:31am via OCA from a hard-wired (not wireless) SSC for launch damage assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting was very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.] Shortly before the docking, Kondratyev & Garan configured the Russian MCS (Motion Control System) for the automatic “PMA-2 Arrival” mode, an operational sequence used to monitor Orbiter arrival at the PMA-2.     [At “Capture Confirmed”, ISS attitude was immediately set to free drift for about 30 min. to allow dampening out relative motions of ISS and Endeavour (with the ODS (Orbiter Docking System) dampers/shock absorbers) plus re-align the docking ring, then maneuvered to “Mated TEA” (Torque Equilibrium Attitude) at ~6:45am to account for the new overall configuration with Endeavour docked, which regained attitude control until handover to ISS momentum management.] Before hatch opening, FE-5 Nespoli configured the internal hard-line ICOM audio comm between ISS and the Shuttle and performed a voice check via Public Call 3.  Paolo also checked on the A31p SSC (Station Support Computer) in Node-2 (log. S1) to verify it is activated.  The SSC serves as wireless router to join Shuttle & Station LANs (Local Area Networks). After leak checks of the ODS vestibule for about an hour, ISS/STS hatches were opened at 7:35am.  Crew ingress was complete at ~8:10am. After hatch opening, Sasha Samokutyayev performed the standard collection of air samples with the Russian AK-1M sampler in the Orbiter. Garan, Nespoli & MS3 Drew Feustel then installed the ventilation airduct between station and Endeavour. After the traditional welcome ceremony (~8:36am), the new arrivals received the mandatory 30-min Safety briefing by CDR Kondratyev. At ~10:00am, Spanky Fincke & Roberto Vittori used the SRMS (Shuttle Remote Manipulator System) to lift the ELC3 (EXPRESS Logistics Carrier #3) out of the Shuttle cargo bay and handed it over to the SSRMS (Space Station  RMS), operated by Taz Chamitoff & Box Johnson.  ELC3 was then installed on the zenith UCCAS (Unpressurized Cargo Carrier Attachment System) of the ISS port truss segment P3. [ELC3 carries ISS external spares, including an ammonia tank, high pressure gas tank, cargo transport container, two S-band antenna assemblies, and a spare arm for the SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator), as well as the STP-H3 (Space Test Program – Houston 3) technology payload.] Earlier in the day, Kondratyev, Samokutyayev, Borisenko, Nespoli & Coleman completed the periodic Russian PZEh-MO-8/Body Mass Measurement using the IMT mass measurement device set up by Dmitri.      [For determining body mass in zero-G, where things are weightless but not massless, the Russian IMT "scales" for MO-8 measure the inertial forces that arise during the oscillatory motion of a mass driven by two helical metering springs with known spring constants.  By measuring the time period of each oscillation of the unknown mass (the crewmember) and comparing it to the period of a known mass, the crewmember’s mass is calculated by the computer and displayed.] As part of post-docking activities, Cady Coleman –Configured the C&T (Command & -Tracking) video set-up in Node-2, verifying that the video cap was installed which enables pass-through reception of video from the Endeavour with the Orbiter docked in support of SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) ops during crew sleep,Deactivated the VSWs (Video Streaming Workstations) & SSCs (Station Support Computers),Set up two of the D2XS camera batteries for recharge (must be charged for at least three hours), andDeactivated the HD (high definition) video camera and MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) used for PAO coverage of the hatch opening. In the MRM1 module, Andrey Borisenko conducted the periodic temperature check of the TBU-V (Universal Bioengineering Thermostat V) thermostatic container which currently contains the biotech BTKh-26 KASKAD (Cascade) payload at +4 degC temperature. In the MRM2 Poisk module, with Andrey taking documentary photography, Sasha Samokutyayev configured and activated the Russian biotech payload BTKh-35/MEMBRANA with pack #1.  Later today, he closed down the payload. Afterwards, Borisenko worked several hours in support of ground engineers at TsUP/Moscow trying to re-activate the Elektron O2 generator.  After the installation of the old BZh spare unit #056 on Saturday (5/14), activation has failed several times. FE-1 conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Nespoli closed and locked the captive locks of the GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator) freezer after its overnight dry-out. In support of the JAXA experiment MYCO (Mycological Evaluation of Crew Exposure to ISS Ambient Air), body samples were collected in the morning by Cady Coleman from Paolo Nespoli, then inserted into the GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator) freezer for preservation.      [MYCO evaluates the risk of microorganisms via inhalation and adhesion to the skin to determine which fungi act as allergens on the ISS.  MYCO samples are collected from the nasal cavity, the pharynx and the skin of crew during preflight, in flight and postflight focusing particularly on fungi which act as strong allergens in our living environment.  Before sample collection, crewmembers are not to eat or drink anything except water, nor wash their face, brush their teeth, or gargle after you wake up to avoid science loss.] First thing in post-sleep, prior to eating, drinking & brushing teeth, Cady Coleman performed her first saliva collection of the INTEGRATED IMMUNE protocol (Day 1).       [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples & analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmembers soak a piece of cotton inside their mouths and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned to the ground so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.] After a calibration check, Cady Coleman conducted the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling in Node-3 using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.     [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.] In Node-3, FE-6 collected the periodic water samples from the EHS PWD (Environmental Health Systems / Potable Water Dispenser) needle for microbial in-flight & post-flight analysis.     [Collected were from PWD Ambient: one 1000 mL post-flight sample and one TOCA in-flight sample of 250 mL; from PWD Hot: one microbial in-flight sample of 125 mL.  The in-flight samples were processed in the MCD (microbial capture device) and CDB (coliform detection bag) from the U.S. WMK (water microbiology kit) for treatment/processing after no more than 6 hours of the collection.  After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.] Cady also initiated another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer) and deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.       [This was the 35th session with the replaced GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 7 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop (due to a software glitch, the software needs to be opened, closed, and then reopened in order to ensure good communication between GC/DMS and SSC-12).  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware. Time again for recharging the Motorola Iridium-9505A satellite phones in the Soyuz Descent Modules: completed by Dmitri Kondratyev for TMA-20/25S (#230, at MRM1) and by Alex Samokutyayev for Soyuz TMA-21/26S (#231, docked at MRM2), a monthly routine job and Dima’s 3rd , Sasha’s first.       [After retrieving the phones from their location in the spacecraft Descent Modules (SA, spuskayemyy apparat), the crewmembers initiated the recharge of the lithium-ion batteries, monitoring the process every 10-15 minutes as it took place.  Upon completion, the phones were returned inside their SSSP Iridium kits and stowed back in the SA’s ODF (operational data files) container.  The satphone accompanies returning ISS crews on Soyuz reentry & landing for contingency communications with SAR (Search-and-Rescue) personnel after touchdown (e.g., after an “undershoot” ballistic reentry, as happened during the 15S return).  The Russian-developed procedure for the monthly recharging has been approved jointly by safety officials.  During the procedure, the phone is left in its fire-protective fluoroplastic bag with open flap.  The Iridium 9505A satphone uses the Iridium constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to relay the landed Soyuz capsule's GPS (Global Positioning System) coordinates to helicopter-borne recovery crews.  The older Iridium-9505 phones were first put on board Soyuz in August 2003.  The newer 9505A phone, currently in use, delivers 30 hours of standby time and three hours of talk, up from 20 and two hours, respectively, on the older units.] Samokutyayev collected & downloaded the periodic sensor readings of the Russian “Pille-MKS” (MKS = ISS) radiation dosimetry experiment which has 11 sensors placed at various locations in the RS (DC1, SM starboard & port cabin windows, ASU toilet facility, control panel, MRM2, etc.), plus one, the “duty” dosimeter, in the Reader.  Today’s readings were taken from all 11 deployed dosimeters, and the memory card with the data was added to the items to be returned on 25S.     [The dosimeters take their readings automatically every 90 minutes.] Later, Aleksandr configured the pumping equipment with the electric compressor (#41), emptied the BV1 Rodnik water storage tank of Progress 42P (#410) for use as condensate water, and then replaced the usual A-R water transfer hose with a T2PrU air line and started the standard bladder compression & leak check of BV1, to get it ready for urine transfer.     [Each of the spherical Rodnik tanks BV1 & BV2 consists of a hard shell with a soft membrane (bladder) composed of elastic fluoroplastic.  The bladder is used to expel water from the tank by compressed air pumped into the tank volume surrounding the membrane and is leak-tested before urine transfers, i.e., with empty tanks, the bladders are expanded against the tank walls and checked for hermeticity.] FE-1 also continued the current round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, today inspecting & cleaning SV dust filters in the MRM1 module with the vacuum cleaner, after taking photos of the fan screens. Dima Kondratyev conducted the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.  This checkup is especially important now when the ventilation/circulation system has to cope with a larger crew on board, currently twelve persons.] Paolo Nespoli & Mark Kelly transferred new ULF-6 SODFs (Station Operations Data Files) with emergency procedures, including books, new pages, videos and cue cards to the ISS, and FE-1 incorporated PCNs (Page Change Notices) in the Emer-2 books. Cady conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks). Andrey Borisenko had another 3 hrs blocked out for Progress 42P cargo transfers, keeping track of items & locations in the IMS (Inventory Management System) database. Afterwards, FE-2 took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Andrey also conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Meanwhile, Dmitri Kondratyev worked ~4h50m on transferring & loading cargo items on Soyuz 25S for return to Earth. Later tonight before “Presleep” period, Cady will power on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.] The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR/2x, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1). No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today. 