
Crew-Observed Noise: This afternoon, the crew reported hearing a sound in the IDA Forward PMA2 area. The sound was compared to previous sounds reported in AR 9920, which is related to thermal gradients caused by high Beta periods and the Dragon Nose Cone shadowing on PMA2. The crew reviewed the recording from previous instances and confirmed the noise was in family. The engineering teams evaluated crew reports and subsequent noises on following orbits and confirmed that this was an expected result of the high Beta. Ground teams will incorporate this new Beta range and ISS attitude into the documented expected ranges.
Payloads:
Actiwatch: An Actiwatch Plus unit was hooked up to the Human Research Facility (HRF)-2 rack using a USB Hub in preparation for ground commanding and battery charging. The Actiwatch is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Surface Avatar: A crewmember inserted the USB Key into the USB Port on experiment laptop to prepare the bootable disk for Surface Avatar operations. The key was labeled as Surface Avatar and then stowed. Several properties of the orbit-to-ground scenario are also applicable to terrestrial operation. For example, a high-latency or lossy data connection, the mix of structured and unstructured environments, and the types of tasks (e.g., traversing, manipulation of mechanical parts) are characteristic to scenarios such as arctic exploration, search and rescue in disaster zones and under-sea maintenance. Insights from these studies will be also applicable here. For example, gravity and wind act on objects on a planet’s surface which are not felt on orbit. In a similar way, when operating an object underwater, buoyancy, lift and drag forces act on the object which are not found in the operator’s environment.
Vascular Aging: Blood pressure measurements were also taken, and the data was downloaded. Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): The lights interval settings were adjusted for the XROOTS operations and the Seed Cartridges were installed into Root Modules placed into XROOTS to begin 30-day growout of plants. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Environmental Health System (EHS) Operations: Today, the ISS crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water. The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Activities: Several EMU activities were performed beginning with an EVA Secondary Oxygen Pack (SOP) study in order to status EMU 3015 and the forward plan for its return. The crew installed EMUs 3009 and 3015 upside down on the aft and forward EMU Don/Doff Assemblies (EDDAs) to provide clearance to remove the SOPs. An on-orbit swap of the SOPs between EMUs 3009 and 3015 was performed and a checkout of EMU 3015 was completed in order to return the older SOP along with EMU 3015, and to provide EMU 3009 with the newer SOP unit. This activity will be completed along with checkout of the SOP on 3009 at a later date. Lastly, the EMU Data Recorder (EDaR) box, antenna, and antenna cable were removed from EMU 3015 in preparation for return.
Boeing Orbital Flight Test 2 (Boe-OFT2) Mission Prep: In preparation for the arrival of Boe-OFT-2, the crew reviewed videos of the Starliner software during nominal and off-nominal Starliner approaches as part of an overview of vehicle monitoring for Starliner rendezvous. A Robotic Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) self-study was also completed including onboard training required for crew to reset Space Station Robotic Manipulator System (SSRMS) proficiency.
Completed Task List Activities:

Recorded Greeting Request (GMT 136)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

EMU SOP Swap
EHDC Checkout

