05-14-2010May 14, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/14/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Another “take it easy”-day for the crew.  STS-132/Atlantis (ULF-4) lifted off on time at 2:20pm EDT for a 12-day flight to the ISS, with station rendezvous on 5/16 and docking at ~10:27am EDT.  At launch time, ISS was well ahead (over the South Pacific west of Wellington/New Zealand), but Atlantis is catching up.  We are off to another great mission!   This is the third of five Shuttle missions planned for 2010 and the final scheduled flight for Atlantis.  Two planned Shuttle missions remain….     [The Orbiter is carrying the six-member crew of CDR Ken Ham, PLT Tony Antonelli, MS1 Garrett Reisman, MS2 Michael Good, MS3 Steve Bowen, MS4 Piers Sellers.  STS-132 is the 132nd space shuttle flight in history, the 32nd for Atlantis, and the 34th Shuttle flight to the ISS (the 11th for Atlantis).  Primary payloads for Atlantis are the Russian-built MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet (Dawn) and additional station hardware stored inside a cargo carrier (ICC).  The mission includes three spacewalks, each about 6.5 hours in length, to be conducted on FD4, FD6 & FD8 by Reisman, Bowen & Good.  Mission duration is 12 days.  Atlantis will undock on FD10 (Sunday, 5/23, 11:12am) and land on FD13 (Wednesday, 5/26, 8:36am, KSC).]  At wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).   [FE-3 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-1 Skvortsov did the daily morning check on the TBU Universal Bioengineering Thermostat container and reported its current internal temperature to TsUP-Moscow.   FE-5 Noguchi downloaded and saved the ECG (Electrocardiograph) data recorded for the last 24 hrs from his third session, started yesterday, with the JAXA biomedical experiment BIORHYTHMS (Biological Rhythms) and its body-worn digital Walk Holter ECG (Electrocardiograph).  In the FGB (Functional Cargo Block), Mikhail Kornienko used microbial growth wipes and Fungistat disinfectant to clean areas behind panels 215 & 216 which appear to have shown some microbial contamination.     [Areas of interest were the internal surfaces of the panels, accessible frame sections, partitions between panels, attachments, mounting brackets and pressurized shell surface areas.]  Afterwards, Kornienko started Part 2 of the 6th onboard run of the Russian SSTV (Slow Scan TV) equipment of the MAI-75 experiment as part of OBR-3 (Obrazovanie-3, Education 3) ops, essentially a ham radio set-up with Kenwood TM D700 Transceiver and Kenwood VS-N1 (Visual Communicator) gear for downlinking photographic images of the overflown terrain to ground stations (MAI, Kursk, Star City & other stations around the world).  Later in the day, the radio session was terminated and the equipment closed out.  The third of the back-to-back sessions is scheduled tomorrow.    [The payload is named after the renowned MAI (Moscow Aviation Institute) whose reputation is based on the large number of famous aviators and rocket scientists that received their academic education here.  Among the alumni are Academicians and Corresponding Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences.  Over 100 General and Chief Designers earned their degree at MAI, with famous rocket scientists like Makeyev, Mishin, Nadiradze and Yangel.  MAI also fostered 20 Pilot-Cosmonauts, almost 100 famous test pilots, Heroes of the Soviet Union and Russia.  The amateur radio (ham) equipment aboard the ISS for downlinking SSTV imagery is a MAI product.]  Misha also uninstalled the BKO multifiltration unit of the SRVK-2M condensate processor and replaced it with a spare, discarding the old unit and updating the IMS (Inventory Management System).  (Last time done: 3/4).     [BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.]  FE-6 Creamer configured the MWA (Maintenance Work Area) in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) for regular service on the science payload APEX-Cambium (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit-Cambium), then harvested Run 2C plants of the TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System) experiment using Chamber 1, chemically preserving the GFP (Green Fluorescent Protein) reporter gene plants for post-flight analysis.  Documentary photography was also taken.  This was the final APEX-C harvest.     [The experiment has been judged “highly successful”.  A total of nine runs have been completed for TAGES, and thousands of images have been downlinked.  Sample & image analyses have already begun, and the APEX-Cambium team looks forward to receiving the remaining samples on ULF-4.  APEX-C will help in resolving two scientific questions: First, the CSA-sponsored Cambium experiment will determine the role of gravity in Cambium wood cell development (providing the pulp & paper and construction industries insight into the fundamental mechanisms of wood cell formation), and secondly, the NASA-sponsored TAGES will demonstrate non-destructive reporter gene technology & investigate spaceflight plant stress. APEX-Cambium provides NASA & the International ISS community a permanent controlled environment capability to support growth of various organisms (i.e. whole plants).]  In Node-3, FE-5 Noguchi conducted the periodic manual filling of the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) flush water tank (EDV-SV), which took about 17 min.  TJ & Soichi worked ~2 hrs on relocating MARES (Muscle Atrophy Resistive Exercise System) and Sabatier water regeneration equipment from ESA’s COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) to make room for payload operations.    [For the time being, the cargo items were transferred and stowed in the JAXA JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment).  After ULF-4, the Sabatier gear will be relocated to the Node-2 forward endcone.]  After Tracy Caldwell-Dyson had unstowed and configured the hardware for the BISE (Bodies in the Space Environment) experiment, Timothy Creamer took his first BISE session while Tracy recorded the operations with the photo/video equipment.     [The CSA (Canadian Space Agency)-sponsored BISE experiment studies how astronauts perceive Up and Down in microgravity, investigating the relative contributions of internal & external cues to self-orientation during and after micro-G exposure.  BISE data collection must be performed at least one hour after any exercise.  The specific objective of the BISE project is to conduct experiments during long-duration micro-G conditions to better understand how humans first adapt to micro-G and then re-adapt to normal gravity conditions upon return to earth.  This experiment involves comparisons of preflight, flight, and post-flight perceptions and mental imagery, with special reference to spaceflight-related decreases in the vertical component of percepts.  The test involves having subjects view a computer screen through a cylinder that blocks all other visual information. The astronauts are being presented with background images with different orientations relative to their bodies.]  Both Soichi & Tracy had another ~1.5 hr set aside for more gathering & prepacking of ULF-4 return cargo.  Skvortsov conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Later, Sasha performed the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  FE-1 also spent ~2 hrs on a comprehensive audit/inventory of Russian SOZh equipment for the SVO water supply and ASU toilet facility systems, checking the available items and their stowage locations against an uplinked IMS-based listing.  FE-1 & FE-5 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Soichi at ~9:00am, Sasha at ~10:40am, EDT.  At ~4:30am, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.  At ~6:05am, Skvortsov & Kotov linked up with TsUP/Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly RS (Russian Segment) IMS tagup, discussing inventory & stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.  At ~7:21am, Noguchi powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 7:26am conducted a ham radio session with participants at Komoro Higashi Junior High School, Komoro, Nagano, Japan.   At ~3:30pm, all crewmembers are scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H.  The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR/2x, FE-2, FE-5, FE-06) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).  WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.    [The updated card (23-0003H) lists 105 CWCs (2,533.9 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (24 CWCs with 909.3 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 388 L in 12 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 387.1 L in 9 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 2 bags with 66.6 L require sample analysis, 4 bags with 170.8 L are to be used with microbial filter & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (63 CWCs with 1,158.6 L),  4. condensate water (7 bags with 73 L, including 2 CWCs with 43.4 L that are to be used with microbial filter, and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 26.3 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Nyiragongo Volcano, Rep. Congo (ISS nadir pass over this volcano took place during the morning when cloud cover was expected to be light.  This active stratovolcano has a well-developed cone with a summit lava lake.  Overlapping frames of the stratovolcano and surrounding area were requested.  The large shield volcano Nyamuragira is located immediately northwest of Nyiragongo; if visible, imagery of this volcano was also requested.  Both volcanoes are located to the north of Lake Kivu), Manama, Bahrain (weather was predicted to be clear over this capital city.  Manama is located at the northern end of the island nation of Bahrain in the western Persian Gulf.  Overlapping frames of the urban area and surrounding coastline were requested), Tashkent, Uzbekistan (Tashkent is located on a plain to the west of the Altai Mountains.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area, taken along track, were requested to provide context for higher resolution imagery), Yerevan, Armenia (ISS had a nadir pass over this capital city.  The city site, located approximately midway between the Black and Caspian Seas, has been continuously inhabited since the 8th century BC.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban/suburban area were requested), and Port au Prince, Haiti (weather was predicted to be mostly clear over the capital city of Haiti.  The city was extensively damaged by a strong earthquake in January 2010.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested to provide context for higher resolution imagery).  STS-132/Atlantis/ULF-4 Flight Plan Notes:  Atlantis’ 12-day mission will deliver the Russian-built MRM-1 (Mini Research Module-1) that will provide additional storage space and a new docking port for Russian Soyuz & Progress spacecraft.  MRM-1, also known as Rassvet (“Dawn” in Russian), will be permanently attached to the nadir port of the station’s FGB module.  MRM-1 will carry important hardware on its exterior including a radiator, airlock and a European robotic arm.  Atlantis also will deliver additional station hardware stored inside a cargo carrier.  Three spacewalks (by Reisman, Bowen & Good) are planned to stage spare components outside the station, including six spare batteries, a Ku-band antenna and spare parts for the Canadian Dextre robotic arm.  Shuttle mission STS-132 is the final scheduled flight for Atlantis.    Launch:       5/14, 2:20pm EDTDocking:      5/16, 10:27amUndocking:  5/23, 11:12amLanding:      5/26, 8:36am.  Atlantis, on its last flight, is crewed by  CDR – Ken Ham (Prime Loadmaster)   PLT  – Tony Antonelli MS1 – Garrett Reisman (EV1)MS2 – Mike Good  (EV3)MS3 – Steve Bowen (EV2) MS4 – Piers Sellers  MRM-1 Main Activities:  FD2 (5/15): Ku Scheme/Video Test for MRM-1 Docking   Setup and testing will be similar to Soyuz Docking videoEquipment left in place until FD5  FD5 (5/18): MRM-1 Docking (performed by STS crew)  SRMS unberth MRM-1 from PLBSRMS handoff MRM-1 to SSRMSSSRMS will berth to FGB NadirRS laptop deployed in USOS for docking ops  FD7 (5/20):  MRM-1 Hatch Open/Leak Check   Initial ingress to scrub airHatch will be left “ajar”Final, full ingress to occur TBD date post flight   Other Main Activities:  FD3 (5/16): Dock and ICC Unberth; CampoutFD4 (5/17): EVA1 (5/17, 8:14am)FD5 (5/18): MRM-1 Docking to FGB Nadir and Focused Inspection; CampoutFD6 (5/19): EVA 2 (5/19, 7:44am)FD7 (5/20): STS Water Dump and MRM-1 Hatch Open (5/20, 6:34am); CampoutFD8 (5/21): EVA 3 (5/21, 7:14am)FD9 (5/22): ICC Berthing in PLB and ReboostFD10 (5/23): Undock   Focused inspection is nominally planned for FD5, though due to limited time availability this activity may be scheduled on its own flight day, if required.  On the evening of FD3, the Debris Assessment Team will start reviewing the RPM imagery.  Late inspection will be completed in its entirety the day following Shuttle undock, on FD11.EVA Summary:Three EVAs are planned during the mission.  General tasks for each EVA are:  EVA 1 (Reisman & Bowen): SGANT & SGANT Boom Install, EOTP Install  Ground-controlled MT translate & SSRMS walkoff to MBS PDGF3 will occur during crew sleep on Flight Night 3 in preparation for EVA1  EVA 2: (Bowen & Good) P6 Battery R&R (3) Ground-controlled walkoff MBS PDGF3 & MT translate will occur during crew sleep on Flight Night 5 in preparation for EVA2  EVA 3: Reisman & Good) P6 Battery R&R (3), PDGF Retrieval (time permitting).  Sleep cycle shifting:  Crew sleep/wake cycle will be shifted starting Sunday morning to accommodate STS-132 docking on 5/16 (Sunday, 10:27am EDT).  Current schedule for ISS crew (EDT):       Date SLEEP WAKE   5/15-16 5:30pm 2:50am   5/16-17 6:50pm 3:20am   5/17-18 6:20pm 2:50am   5/18-19 6:20pm 2:50am   5/19-20 5:50pm 2:20am   5/20-21 5:50pm 2:20am   5/21-22 5:20pm 1:50am   5/22-23 4:20pm 12:50am   5/23-24 4:50pm 2:00am    