
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) #11 Deploy: The final six CubeSats for NRCSD #11 were deployed today from the ISS:  Aerosat, Link, CSUNSat, UpSat, SpaceCube and Hoopoe.  CSUNSAT was developed at California State University Northridge (CSUN) in partnership with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL).  It is being used to validate in space a new low temperature energy storage system developed at JPL. The remaining cubesats being launched today are from the QB50 constellation of CubeSats from countries around the world. The constellation aims to study the upper reaches of the Earth’s atmosphere over a period of 1 to 2 years. The QB50 satellites conduct coordinated measurements on a poorly studied and previously inaccessible zone of the atmosphere referred to as the thermosphere. The project monitors different gaseous molecules and electrical properties of the thermosphere to better understand space weather and its long term trends. 
Sprint Ultrasound 2 Operations: The crew configured Ultrasound 2, placed reference marks on the calf and thigh of right leg, donned Sprint (Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study) thigh and calf guides, and performed thigh and calf scans with guidance from the Sprint ground team. Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. 
Fluid Shifts:  A 49S crewmember performed their Flight Day 30 Fluid Shifts Chibis operations in the Russian Segment. They donned the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP/Chibis) device while the operator, with ground support in Moscow, assisted in the medical monitoring.  While the subject was in the LBNP and experiencing the negative pressure (pulling the fluid feetward), the USOS crewmember will take measurements for Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), a Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) test, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), and a Tonometry examination.  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage. 
Biolab:  Today the crew replaced the Biolab Centrifuge rotor belt.  On August 4, 2016 the crew noticed that the centrifuge would not rotate due to the rotor belt not being properly aligned. The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the Columbus laboratory. It is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates.
OsteoOmics:  The crew fixated BioCells in Biocell Habitat 4 today and inserted the sample into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  Crewmembers experience bone loss in orbit, stemming from the lack of gravity acting on their bones. OsteoOmics investigates the molecular mechanisms that dictate this bone loss by examining osteoblasts, which form bone, and osteoclasts, which dissolve bone.  Improved understanding of these mechanisms could lead to more effective countermeasures to prevent bone loss during space missions and in a wide range of disorders on Earth. This may lead to better preventative care or therapeutic treatments for people suffering bone loss as a result of bone diseases like osteopenia and osteoporosis, or for patients on prolonged bed rest.
Service and Cooling Umbilical (SCU) Remove & Replace (R&R): In preparation for last week’s EVA, at the beginning of In-Suit Light Exercise (ISLE) Prebreathe a water leak was discovered at the SCU for Fischer’s Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) suit. The leaking SCU was subsequently disconnected and a single functioning SCU was shared between the two EMU suits. Today the crew R&Rd the faulty SCU, removed air from the feed water line and filled transport water lines. The faulty SCU will return to the ground for investigation.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

SPLANKH. Setup and Initiate EGEG Recording
Equipment Audit in the SM recess under ИнПУ  (panel 214)
Personal Data Prep for Return
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
SPLANKH. Photography of the Experiment Session
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Power Up
FLUID SHIFTS
OsteoOmics MELFI Removal
Sprint Ultrasound Operations – Subject
Sprint Guide Donning Operator
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Checkout Part 2
NanoRacks Cubesat Video Setup
Condition check of Fuel Supply Syringe of Group Combustion Module (GCM)
SPLANKH. Termination EGEG Recording and Closeout Ops
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Biolab Rotor Belt Troubleshooting Unstow
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Subject
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Service Module Stow
High Definition Video Camera Assembly 1 Activation in High Definition Mode
Manufacturing Device Print Clean
Biolab Centrifuge Recovery
USOS Window Shutter Close
OsteoOmics Media Relocate
Service and Cooling Umbilical (SCU) Installation
Service and Cooling Umbilical (SCU) Activation and Checkout Part 1
OsteoOmics Media Change
Service and Cooling Umbilical (SCU) Activation and Checkout Part 2
Biolab Centrifuge Recovery
Removal of insert-cable КВ БРП-М No.1409001 from БРП-М No.1406003
Pre-pack cargo items for return or disposal on Soyuz 733
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Stow
Crew Departure Prep
Replacement of ПУРВ-К (А308) (No.10326332) on ПУРВ-К (А308) (No.10322900) and removal of cable-insert. Test checkouts after replacement
Clean up of Biolab Rotor Belt Troubleshooting activity
High Definition Video Camera Assembly 1 Switch to SD Mode
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
Service and Cooling Umbilical (SCU) Activation and Checkout Part 3
LS1 (Linux Server 1) Ultrabay drive reseat
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

SCU R&R Support

