05-19-2010May 19, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/19/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    FD6 (Flight Day 6) of STS-132/ULF-4.  ISS Crew Wake – 2:20am EDT ISS Crew Sleep – 5:20pm  Mission ULF-4’s EVA-2 was completed successfully by EV2 Stephen Bowen & EV3 Michael Good in 7h 9m, accomplishing all objectives plus two get-aheads.  Beginning this morning at 6:38am EDT, the spacewalk ended at 1:47pm.    [EV2 & EV3 began their “campout” last night in the U.S. Airlock (A/L) with hatch closure and depressurization of the Crewlock (CL) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe.  Following the usual hygiene break/with mask prebreathe for Good & Bowen at 3:30am-4:40am, the A/L hatch was closed again by Tracy Caldwell-Dyson & Ken Ham for EVA preps in 10.2 psi, followed by EMU purge and prebreathe in the EMUs.  Afterwards, with CL depressurization and EV1/EV2 switching to suit power, EVA-2 began at 6:38am.  The excursion lasted 7h 9m.]  During EVA-2, Bowen & Good –  Cleared the snagged cable on the PTU (Pan & Tilt Unit) sensor of the OBSS (Orbiter Boom Sensor System), restoring it to full pan/tilt range,Prepared the P6 truss worksite for replacing the batteries (breaking bolt torque & installing gap spanner),Removed & replaced four P6 batteries with new batteries from the ICC-VLD2 (Integrated Cargo Carrier – Vertical Light Deployable 2), stowing the old batteries on the ICC (the battery #4 R&R, originally planned for the third EVA on 5/21, was a get-ahead), andPerformed successful troubleshooting on the SGANT (Space-to-Ground Antenna) as another get-ahead, first verifying by wiggling the boom that boom & dish are solidly fixed without relative motion at the interface, then removing the tether installed during EVA-1 and releasing the gimbal locks that allow the dish to rotate.   Battery R&R:   Bowen & Good replaced four of the six batteries on the B side of the P6 solar array (each of the two wings of the four solar arrays at the space station are designated either A or B), the six batteries on the A side of the P6 having been replaced in July 2009 on STS-127 (2J/A).  The first old battery was moved to temporary storage on the P6 IEA (Integrated Equipment Assembly), attached to a MUT (multi-use tether) called a ball-stack.  The remaining three batteries were then swapped out, with the old units taking the slots of the new ones on the ICC pallet hovering nearby on the SSRMS.  Finally, the first battery was transferred from the ball-stack to the remaining free slot on the ICC which was then maneuvered to SARJ (Solar Alpha Rotary Joint) clearance position.  Before the EVA, FE-6 Creamer –  Powered down the amateur/ham radio equipment to prevent RF interference with the spacewalkers’ radio,Activated the VSWs (Video Streaming Workstations) and SSC-1 (Station Support Computer 1) laptops for the video “scheme” of converting RS (Russian Segment) video signals to US format and downlinking “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band, andInhibited the CUCU (COTS UHF Communications Unit) in the Lab (O4) by opening four circuit breakers.  While Tracy & Ken provided campout & prebreathe support, MS-1 Garrett Reisman & MS-4 Piers Sellers supported the spacewalkers by operating the SRMS (Shuttle Remote Manipulator System) and SSRMS (Space Station RMS).    [SSRMS first assisted during the PTU cable snag clearing, then grappled the ICC at the POA (Payload ORU Accommodation) on the MSS MT (Mobile Service System Mobil Transporter) and maneuvered it to the P6 truss battery R&R worksite viewed by the SRMS video cameras.]  After the EVA-2, FE-6 Creamer –  Deactivated the video VSW/SSC “scheme”,Took the standard photographs of the EMU gloves for ground inspection, andRe-configured the C&T (Command & Tracking) video set-up in Node-2, installing the video cap which enables pass-through reception of video from the Atlantis with the Orbiter docked in support of SSRMS ops.  Other post-ingress activities, by Ham, Bowen, Reisman, Good & Caldwell-Dyson included the usual post-EVA tasks like recharging EMUs with water, downloading & downlinking D2XS EVA & glove photography, recharging REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly) batteries, etc.  At wake-up, FE-1 Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspected the filters before bedtime this morning, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Skvortsov also did the daily morning check on the TBU Universal Bioengineering Thermostat container and reported its current internal temperature to TsUP-Moscow.   CDR Kotov terminated his 9th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep  study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  CDR Kotov performed a 20-min checkout of the PZE KARDIOMED (Cardiomed) equipment, checking its proper functioning, conducting some practice runs and verifying correct function from the quality of the unit’s physiological signals on the Russian RSE-Med laptop.    [The KARDIOMED hardware, which includes the KARDIOMED-TsB, KARDIOMED-KP, KARDIOMED-PMO and KARDIOMED-KRM assemblies, a HOLTER monitor harness, a PLETISMOGRAF (Plethysmograph) instrument and a DOPPLER complex, was delivered on Progress 36P and installed by Oleg in the SM on 2/26.  A Plethysmograph (sometimes called a “body box”) is an instrument for measuring changes in volume within an organ or the whole body (usually resulting from fluctuations in the amount of blood or air it contains).]  Afterwards, Oleg configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his 5th, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment, supported by ground specialist tagup, was then closed out and the test data downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic & physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]  Skvortsov conducted the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #1 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated later (~4:50pm EDT) before sleeptime, followed tomorrow by regeneration of Bed #2.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 4/30-5/1).]  Afterwards, Alexander made his way into the Soyuz TMA-18/22S, docked to MRM2 “Poisk”, and dismantled the two "Klest" (KL-152) TV cameras and their light units in the Descent Module for return to the ground on 21S for reuse, temporarily stowing them in the SM (Service Module).  In Node-3, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson conducted the periodic manual filling of the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) flush water tank (EDV-SV), which took about 17 min.  Today was ULF-4 water sampling time aboard the station, completed by Soichi Noguchi who –  Conducted the periodic WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) in Node-3, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.  [After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged];Collected “ULF-4” water samples in the SM for in-flight and ground analysis, taking them from the SRV-K Warm, SRV-K Hot and SVO-ZV taps.   [Soichi collected two 750 mL chemical postflight samples and three 500 mL microbial post-flight samples each for return on ULF-4, plus one 20 mL sample each for in-flight silver detection (SDTO/Station Development Test Objective) using EHS C-SPE (Environmental Health System / Colorimetric Solid-Phase Extraction) analysis];Took water samples from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser)’s ambient “leg” for microbial in-flight processing, TOCA analysis & post-flight analysis; and afterwardsProcessed the inflight SM & PWD water samples with the WMK MCD (Water Microbiology Kit / Microbial Capture Devices) for microbial traces, and the CDB (Coliform Detection Bag) for inflight coliform indications (Magenta for Positive, Yellow for Negative).   [The activity must be conducted within 6 hrs after water collection from the PWD line.  The visual T+2 Day microbial (bacterial & fungal) analysis of the “ULF-4” potable water samples will be performed on 5/21.]  FE-3 Kornienko had ~3.5 hrs set aside for collecting microbial surface samples from  12 equipment & structures locations in the FGB, storing them in sample tubes, labeling the tubes and prepacking them for return on Soyuz TMA-17.  Misha also conducted his 4th data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.     [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]  Skvortsov did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  FE-1 also performed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Later, Sasha completed the periodic (currently daily) checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.   [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1. This checkup is especially important when the ventilation/circulation system has to cope with a larger crew on board, currently twelve persons.]  With the new MRM1 “Rassvet” now permanently attached to the FGB nadir port, Kotov & Skvortsov spent ~1hr on a review of ingress procedures and MRM1 cargo transfers, supported by ground specialist tagup via S-band as required.    [RSC-Energia expressed gratitude for NASA’s support, reported full access to MRM1 telemetry and stated that the module is in good shape.]  Afterwards, Oleg & Alexander laid out the equipment and personal protection gear for their first MRM1 ingress.   A preliminary initial ingress is scheduled tomorrow for the purpose of activating air scrubbers to clean Rassvet’s cabin atmosphere.  The hatch will then left “ajar”, and the final full ingress will be performed after STS-132 departure.   FE-1 performed the regular status check of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment hardware for taking structural dynamics data during the docked period.     [Data calldown to TsUP/Moscow must be done once a day during joint flight of ULF-4 with the ISS, the file downlink and restart every third day.  IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]  Kornienko & Skvortsov had another ~1hr to wrap up the repair work on the broken Russian IPK-1M gas masks by replacing their flawed adaptors with new Eskiz 4640 adaptors, delivered on STS-132/Atlantis, and then also installing the new adapters on the unbroken half masks.     [Two adapters of the broken IPK-1Ms were prepared for return on Soyuz 21S, the others stowed in the SM PrK (Transfer Tunnel) for disposal.  There are 12 IPKs operational (4 previously inoperable masks were upgraded and 8 operable masks were left with original adapter), 1 inoperable mask that could not be upgraded with the adapter, and 1 operable mask which is presently missing.  The crew reported that 3 gas masks are in the SM, 2 in the FGB, 3 in Soyuz 21S, 3 in Soyuz 22S, 1 in MRM-2, 1 is failed and 1 is missing.  This is the required compliment of masks and adapters, meeting crew emergency needs as defined by Flight Rules.]  Sasha also worked about an hour on the Russian RSK1 laptop, upgrading its flight simulation applications for Progress-M TORU operations & Soyuz TMA relocations with software issue v.2.3.  CDR Kotov pre-packed return cargo for Soyuz 21S, guided by an uplinked listing of ~60 items, including numerous water, surface and science samples.  Oleg, TJ & Soichi again had ~60 min set aside for regular crew departure preparations, working on the standard end-of-increment cleanup preparatory to their return.     [It is usual for crewmembers to be granted reduced workdays for making their departure preparations, as their return date approaches.]  The ISS crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (CDR/2x, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-3).  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.   Sleep cycle shifting:  Crew sleep/wake cycle is shifting, returning to normal on 5/24-25.  Current schedule for ISS crew (EDT):       Date SLEEP WAKE   5/19-20 5:20pm 1:50am   5/20-21 5:20pm 1:50am   5/21-22 5:20pm 1:50am   5/22-23 4:20pm 12:50am   5/23-24 4:50pm 2:00am   5/24-25 5:30pm 2:00am    