
Payloads:
Acoustic Diagnostics:  The Acoustic Diagnostic hardware was setup, calibrated and measurements were recorded.  Following this, a questionnaire was filled out on the EveryWear device.  Due to time constraints, the final part of the session will be deferred to tomorrow.  The Acoustic Upgraded Diagnostics In-Orbit (Acoustic Diagnostics) investigation tests the hearing of ISS crew members before, during, and after flight.  This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM):  Science Data from the APM memory card was transferred to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for subsequent downlink, and the display status was reported to the ground.  Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. The Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM) demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): The crew performed a water fill and cleaning activity for the XROOTS plant growth hardware.  The plant growth phase of the experiment is currently scheduled to begin next week.  The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media.  Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
ISS Ham:  The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with Scuola Secondaria di I Grado G. Leopardi, Macherio, Lombardia, Italy.  the students asked questions about how the astronauts deal with difficulties they encounter, how flames behave in space, and what the temperature is inside and outside the ISS.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground Ham radio units.
rHEALTH:  The crew reviewed the procedures and big picture words in preparation for the demo session later this week.  The rHEALTH ONE Microgravity Demonstration (rHEALTH) is intended to establish whether the technology used by this modified, commercial off-the-shelf device can identify and analyze biomarkers, cells, microorganisms, and proteins in the spaceflight environment. The device uses flow cytometry technology to sort and identify cells. This technology could be used to provide quick and accurate measurements of biological indicators related to disease, infection, or environmental exposure on future long-duration exploration missions.
Wireless Compose-2:  The crew participated in a Ballistocardiography session while wearing the SmartTex-2 shirt.  Ballistocardiography looks at body motion related to the pumping of blood by the heart.  The main scientific goal of the Wireless Communication Network (Wireless Compose-2) investigation is to provide a flexible and adaptable wireless network infrastructure to conduct and execute low-power, low-weight, and wireless experiments on the ISS.  For this demonstration, Wireless Compose-2 operates several experiments, including an experiment to examine the impact of the space environment on the cardiovascular system.  Additionally, Wireless Compose-2 demonstrates newly developed impulse radio ultra-wide- band (IR-UWB) hardware to enable precise localization applications and to analyze the energy harvesting potential on the ISS.
Systems:
Cupola Window 7 Scratch Pane Replace: Today the crew attempted to replace the Cupola window 7 scratch pane however, during the steps to remove the old scratch pane the crew ran into some interference issues and were not able to complete this task.  The engineering and operations teams will review the video and photos provided by the crew; this task will be replanned for another day.
Water Process Assembly (WPA) Multifiltration (MF) Bed Inspect: Following a WPA MF Bed replacement a couple weeks ago the WPA has experienced a variety of faults at various points during the process cycle.  As part of the investigation into the faults the crew performed an inspection of the MF Bed Quick Disconnects (QDs), the crew did not observe any QD leaks during their inspection.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Dose Pump and Pretreat Tank Remove and Replace: The crew performed WHC preventative maintenance today, which included replacing the Dose Pump and Pre-Treat Tank.  After the maintenance was completed the crew performed a WHC checkout, however the new Dose Pump was not operating as expected.  The crew and ground teams are working to recover WHC functionality.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

None

