
Payloads
Celestial Immunity: The crew thawed cell cultures, exchanged media after centrifuge ops, and inoculated a 24-Well Plate. The samples were then inoculated and placed into cold stowage. Dissecting the Influence of Gravity on Human Immune Function in Adults and the Elderly (Celestial Immunity) builds on earlier studies to evaluate how gravity affects functional immune response, from innate mechanisms of defense to adaptive responses. It uses peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from both elderly and younger adult donors to facilitate the study of possible age-associated effects. The investigation could uncover novel immune pathways useful for the development of new vaccines and drugs to prevent and treat existing and emerging human diseases.
Dreams: A crewmember concluded a data collection run by doffing the DREAMS headband and performed a data transfer. Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep, or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance. The Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (Dreams) is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the International Space Station (ISS).
ISS HAM: A crewmember initiated an ISS HAM contact with Monaro High School, Cooma, NSW, Australia.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
SUBSA (Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules): The crew removed the SUBSA Ampoule from the SUBSA Thermal Chamber and installed a new Science Ampoule. The Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA) facility objective is to advance understanding of the processes involved in semiconductor crystal growth. SUBSA offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C. Samples are contained in transparent quartz or ceramic ampoules with high definition video imaging available in real time, along with remote commanding of thermal control parameters.
Time Perception in Microgravity: Crewmembers performed TIME PERCEPTION experiment sessions. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time perception in microgravity is also fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. The Time Perception in Microgravity experiment quantifies the subjective changes in time perception in humans during and after long-duration exposure to microgravity.
Vascular Aging: A crewmember collected finger blood samples and took glucose measurements using the Glucometer. The Bio-Monitor Garment and Headband was doffed, and the spare Garment and Headband was donned. Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems
In Flight Maintenance Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Recovery from Suspected Gas Separator Leakage: Today, Crew continued work on restoring the WPA to full operational use. Today’s R&R included the Install the of Gas Separator, Ion Exchange, Water Delivery, and AAA ORUs from the NOD3D5 WRS-1 Rack. The Air Avionics Assembly was installed first, followed by the Water Delivery ORU, followed by the Ion Exchange ORU, and lastly the Gas Separator. Checkouts have been confirmed on the AAA Fan as well as the Water Delivery ORUs were operational, the other components will be checked out later. 
In Flight Maintenance – LAB IMV Bypass Duct Installation: As part of the dry out and recovery operations of the WPA, the IMV Bypass Duct was routed by Crew from the LAB Aft and channeled to the intake at LAB Fwd. The LAB IMV Bypass Duct will run through the LAB to send air from Node 3 directly to Node 2 in order to provide better air mixing across the USOS.
Joint Station LAN (JSL) 20 Port Switch Cable Modification (Part 1):  Today Crew modified the 16-Port Ethernet Switch Power Cable by installing a larger ring ground terminal. A spare (un-installed) cable will be modified in preparation for this replacement by swapping out a 16-Port Ethernet Switch with a 20-Port Network Switch.
Crew Dragon Tablet Sync, Charge, and Stow: Today, Crew charged and synced their SpaceX provided iPads. This sync updated emergency deorbit data as well as other data from SpaceX using CrewNet. This also began the charging period of this group of iPads before they subsequently stowed.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Walkoff
HRF Rack 2 Rack Power Up Commanding
Video Distribution Subsystem (VDS) Robotics Ground Configuration

