05-29-2010May 29, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/29/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday –  US Crew off duty; RS crew half-day duty.   At wake-up, FE-1 Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   Skvortsov also did the daily morning check on the TBU Universal Bioengineering Thermostat container and reported its current internal temperature to TsUP-Moscow.    FE-6 Creamer & FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson continued their new week-long session of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), TJ’s 6th, Tracy’s 3rd, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   At wake-up, Creamer continued his FD180 (Flight Day 180) session of the Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) medical protocol, his 5th on board run, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test (not sampling).     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]   Yesterday, Tracy Caldwell-Dyson completed her four-day FD60 Pro K diet configuration from the discretionary US “job jar” task list.     [Hard scheduling of her future Pro K sessions is being considered.]   Timothy Creamer collected his third liquid saliva sample of the biomed experiment INTEGRATED IMMUNE, storing the sample at ambient temperature for return to the ground.  For TJ, the blood draws for Pro K, NUTRITION-Repository & INTEGRATED IMMUNE will be combined on the morning of 21S undocking.      [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples & analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned on the Shuttle so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.   Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]   CDR Kotov undertook his 4th orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test session (of 5) with the Russian Chibis suit in preparation for his return to gravity on 6/1 with Soyuz 21S (along with Soichi Noguchi & Timothy Creamer), conducting the MedOps MO-4 exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill.   With Kornienko assisting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer), Oleg was supported in his 55-min session by ground specialist tagup in a telemetry pass via VHF at 5:18am EDT on DO4.      [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Kotov’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  Data output includes blood pressure readings.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by one cycle of a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -25, -35, -40 and -45 mmHg for five min. each, while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, while wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure and the REG SHKO Rheoencephalogram Biomed Cap.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]   While the thee Russian crewmembers were busy with the 6/1 Soyuz 21S departure and systems maintenance, Creamer, Caldwell-Dyson & Noguchi completed their part of the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning.     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   Kotov also collected air samples in the SM in the area of the worktable, using the usual Russian air sampling equipment, i.e., the IPD-NH3 Draeger tube sampler for checking for ammonia, and the AK-1M absorber, taking air specimen.  Samples were stowed in the Soyuz TMA-17 SA for return to Earth.    Later, the CDR had another ~2h for stowing return cargo in the 21S Descent Module.  Excessed items & trash go into the Orbital Module, to be jettisoned for its own atmospheric entry.   Meanwhile, FE-1 Skvortsov worked with FE-3 Kornienko for ~2h20m on transferring, unpacking & stowing cargo delivered on the Russian MRM1 Poisk module, going by an uplinked list of CTB (Cargo Transfer Bag) numbers & stowage locations.   FE-1 completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Alexander also performed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   Afterwards, Sasha ran another photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining data on to record color bloom patterns in the Canary upwelling (North-Western Africa), then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.   In the SM, Mikhail Kornienko, using protective goggles & gloves, performed routine IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the ASU toilet facility, removing the MNR-NS pump separator ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit) and replacing it with a new spare.  The old unit was packed in two KBO bags and prepared for disposal.   For his selected VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activity today, FE-5 Noguchi first reviewed briefing material, then set up the CANON G1 video camcorder and conducted a “Sesame Street 1” demo for the JAXA EPO (Educational Payload Operations) in real-time (for feedback from the ground).     [Soichi discussed the word "float" (for Float) and the letter "A" (for Astronaut) for a future episode on Sesame Street.]   In the MRM2 module, Kornienko activated another heating cycle on the Russian experiment BTKh-35 MEMBRANA (Membrane) with Kit 1 (Day 1), later reporting mode 1 & 2 activation times to TsUP-Moscow.  Skvortsov took documentary photography.  At sleeptime, Mikhail will deactivate the payload.     [Objective of Membrana is to study new technological capabilities to generate a porous structure with a high degree of uniformity of spatial distribution and working pore sizes based on the convection-turbulent-free process of phase changes in microgravity in a polymer solution.  Expected outcome is the production of porous polymeric materials.  These are filtering elements, membranes, sorbents having a high degree of structural homogeneity of working pores, acting as "molecular sieves" and possessing the improved selectivity characteristics (selective rejection) when they are used in the separation processes of complex mixtures of macromolecules.  An example would be during extraction of valuable organic and bioorganic preparations in ground-based production.]   In the DC1 Docking Compartment, Mikhail later serviced the BTKh-26 KASKAD (Cascade) payload, retrieving the bioreactor/incubator from the KRIOGEM-03 thermostat-controlled container and relocating it to the KT thermostatic enclosure at +4 degC.  Misha then placed ice packs in KRIOGEM for cooling down to -22 degC (for tomorrow’s MO-21 samples).   Kornienko had another 1-hr block of time reserved for Simvolika mementos, the traditional Russian commemorative items treasured as gifts, today stamping & signing pennants, an ISS newspaper and ISS pennant certificates for the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD), with Skvortsov taking documentary photography.   Noguchi filled out his weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), deferred from yesterday.    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   Before his sleeptime, Oleg Kotov will make preparations for a microbial air sampling session scheduled tomorrow with the MedOps SZM-MO-21 ECOSFERA equipment, initiating charging on the Ecosphere power pack (BP) and readying the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic container for the samples.     [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger, power supply unit, and incubation tray for Petri dishes, determines microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.]   At ~6:44am EDT, Tracy powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 6:49am conducted a ham radio session with students from Trinity Christian School at the Wireless Institute of Australia (WIA), Bayswater, Victoria, Australia.     [Tracy: “On behalf of the International Space Station crew and NASA, I extend our warm congratulations to the Wireless Institute of Australia on reaching 100 years.  The WIA began in 1910 at a time when we could not communicate around the world using radio.  About a decade later radio amateurs had developed worldwide radio communications.  Among the many other contributions of radio amateurs over the years includes space communications.  The first amateur satellite was launched in 1961 just four years after Sputnik 1.  There are advanced and ambitious plans by AMSAT to send amateur satellites into the orbits of Venus and Mars.  All very interesting indeed.  I will now stand by for the questions.”]   At ~9:05am, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   CDR, FE-2 & FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Oleg at ~6:00am, Tracy at ~7:25am, TJ at ~12:10pm EDT.   The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-6).  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Three -- Week 10)  3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    This ISS backup radiation monitoring system remains non-operational.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):   Biolab was active for the WAICO#2 experiment until 5/23, then deactivated.   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   FE-5 performed a session on 5/14.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):     “TJ, thank you for completing another session of BISE.”  BISPHOSPHONATES:    “Soichi: thanks for completing your pill ingestion and last urine collection sessions.  Your final pill ingestion is scheduled for this weekend.  You will also be taking photos of your pill card and any comment cards that have been filled out.  Thanks for your participation in this important research.  We look forward to seeing you on the ground.”  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    Returned with 19A.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    “Tracy: Thank you for your excellent work replacing the DCM.  We were especially impressed with how quickly and easily you used the FCF UML Latch Handle -- Good Work!  Also, we appreciate your complimentary words about the planning we put into the replacement activity.”  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    “The Directional Solidification Insert (DSI) is currently installed into DECLIC.  The DSI-S1 run (third run /6) started on 5/25 for 17 days.- A new script file has been installed successfully onboard DECLIC.- We performed 1 solidification successfully and currently another is in progress.”   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    The active DOSTEL detectors continue to acquire data.   EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):     Water pump servicing performed on 5/13.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):    No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   - J-SPACE SCHOOL: performed on 5/4 & 5/5;- Try Zero-G: performed on 5/1 as Voluntary Science;- JAXA LETTER: performed on 5/8 as Voluntary Science;- JAXA VIDEO: performed on 4/2 during off-duty time.- JAXA REPORT: performed on 3/20, 3/30, 4/15, 4/29, 5/8, and 5/13 (off task list);- D138 Paper Craft: Cancelled.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    Performed on 5/1 as VolSci.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  Ferulate:   Planned to start next week.   FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     “The 30mm pentane and dry calibration/control modules were returned on ULF-4.  Both modules passed visual inspection (on 5/26) and are being shipped back to GRC.  Ground testing at the higher temperatures (180–320 degC) which we observed during ISS operations will begin next week and run concurrently with the operations of the 20mm module starting in a couple of weeks”.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  “Noguchi-san, good job!”  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    FSL VMU troubleshooting activity on-going at time of writing.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    2nd Hair sampling for FE-6 was performed on 5/13.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):   HREP is operating nominally and 1024 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    No report.   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    Performed the 10th run successfully (by ground commanding) on 4/17-4/18.  Matryoshka-2:    Acquiring science data.  Marangoni UVP:    Runs 13 was performed on 5/24-25.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE7 (Materials ISS Experiment):   MISSE7 is operating nominally.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.   MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.   MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   Completed Myco Sampling for Caldwell-Dyson, Ham and Reisman on FD9/ULF4.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.   NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   The sample was fixed and installed in MELFI on 5/6.   NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):   No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   "TJ and Soichi, the actual number of tests you will complete is 94.  The number we have been carrying, 133, was a planning number.  Thank you for your participation throughout your mission!  Tracy, thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test! "   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    A CGSE/CBEF CO2 leak check has been completed.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Tracy and TJ, thank you for completing another week of Sleep logging.  Your logs will be downlinked next week to send to the PI for review.  TJ, thank you for performing the monthly Actiwatch download and initialization of your and Tracy's Actiwatches.  Your final Sleep activity for the increment will be to doff and stow your Actiwatch before you undock.”  SMILES (JAXA):    SLOC (submillimeter local oscillator controller) troubleshooting is underway.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    The Sun observation window #28 began on 5/9 and ended on 5/22 with science data acquisition for both SOLACES and SOLSPEC.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.   Space-DRUMS:    No report.    SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    “TJ, Soichi and Tracy, thank you for your participation as subjects and operators for Spinal Elongation on STS 132/ULF4.  We received the photos and they look great!  We look forward to receiving the logs to complete the data analysis.”  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   No report.   TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):     “Thanks, TJ, for setting up the ERNObox and VESSEL ID System hardware.  It is all ready for the check-out and start of measurements next week!”   VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    The science team is ready to assess the samples once they reach Europe after their return on Shuttle.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   Through 5/44, the ground has received a total of 37,178 frames of CEO imagery for review and cataloging.  “We resumed submitting Daily Target Lists on 5/25 and look forward to your continued efforts to acquire photographs of our targets.  This past weekend we published your striking detailed view of Kata Tjuta (The Olgas), Northern Territory, Australia on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website.  This photo was acquired in conjunction with your successful acquisition of the CEO target of the renowned Uluru (Ayer's Rock) site some 30km to the southeast.  Both of these spectacular inselbergs, or isolated mountains, are sacred sites to the Aboriginal people of the area and protected as National Parks.  Your detailed views in afternoon lighting are the best we have obtained of these features to date.  In addition this week, PAO and the media expressed interest in your unsolicited photos of flooding in Eastern Europe.  One of your timely views of the widespread flooding of the Vistula River in southeastern Poland was published today in the Natural Hazards section of NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website.  Thank you for your extra effort on these fine images to share with the world.”   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were N Mariana Islands, & Guam (ISS passed over the Northern Mariana Islands; there may have been some high cirrus clouds in the area.  Detailed imagery of the islands and coral reefs in the northern part of the island chain are of particular interest.  Overlapping mapping frames of the islands within nadir to near-nadir view were requested), Riyadh, Saudi Arabia (looking to the right of track for the capital of Saudi Arabia.  Short-lens views of the urban area were requested in order to provide context for higher resolution images), Rabat, Morocco (looking slightly to the left of track for the capital of the Kingdom of Morocco.  The city is located on the mouth of the Bou Regreg River on the Atlantic coast.  Overlapping frames of the urban area were requested), and Nouakchott, Mauritania (ISS had a nadir-viewing overpass of this capital city.  The city is located on the Atlantic coast of the Sahara Desert.  Short-lens views of the urban area were requested to provide context for higher resolution data).  