
Payloads:
ACME (Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments): A crewmember replaced CIR Manifold #4 with a new C4H10 (Butane) and C2H6 (Ethane) bottles and replaced O2 bottles in Manifold #2. The Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) project is a set of six independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR). ACME’s primary and secondary goals are (1) improved fuel efficiency and reduced pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth, and (2) spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Actiwatch Plus: A crewmember hooked up Actiwatch Plus units to the HRP rack for data downlink. The Actiwatch is a waterproof, nonintrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. The device contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data are stored in nonvolatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Celestial Immunity: The crew retrieved Vented Bags containing a 24-Well Plate, pulled samples from the 24-Well Zeta Plate, and trashed the 24-Well Plate. Dissecting the Influence of Gravity on Human Immune Function in Adults and the Elderly (Celestial Immunity) builds on earlier studies to evaluate how gravity affects functional immune response, from innate mechanisms of defense to adaptive responses. It uses peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from both elderly and younger adult donors to facilitate the study of possible age-associated effects. The investigation could uncover novel immune pathways useful for the development of new vaccines and drugs to prevent and treat existing and emerging human diseases.
DFM (Dendrite Fragmentation and Morphology during Melting and Solidification): A crewmember removed SUBSA Ampoule from the SUBSA Thermal Chamber and install a new SUBSA Science Ampoule. When a metal solidifies during casting or additive manufacturing, it forms a multitude of tiny crystals called dendrites. The dendrite shape and whether the dendrites fragment determines the strength of the resulting solid metal. However, since gravity affects the growth and fragmentation process, it is unclear how those dendrites grow during freezing. The Dendrite Fragmentation and Morphology During Melting and Solidification (DFM) investigation, conducted in the Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA) facility, uses microgravity to examine the effects of cooling and heating rate on the shape of these crystals.
Plant Water Management: A crewmember assembled the Plant Water Management (3&4) Test Stand Kit. The Plant Water Management investigation demonstrates passive measures for controlling fluid delivery and uptake in plant growth systems. Reduced gravity creates challenges in providing adequate fluid and nutrition for plant growth. This investigation examines using other physical properties such as surface tension, wetting and system geometry to replace the role of gravity.
Vascular Aging: A crewmember marked the position of the femoral artery and performed Vascular Echo protocols with guidance from the Vascular Echo ground team. This protocol included scans of the neck, thigh, portal vein and heart. Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
ISS HAM: A crewmember initiated a contact with Windsor School, Valdivia, Chile. ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Systems:
Ultrasound Exam: Today the crew used the ultrasound device to perform a Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) scan.  This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for bilateral imaging of the internal jugular, entire subclavian-axillary axis, and lower extremity deep veins. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams.
Emergency Health Maintenance System (HMS) On-Board Training (OBT): The crew performed onboard training that allowed them to review procedures, hardware and communication methods necessary to manage a medical emergency onboard ISS. The crew used emergency medical equipment and practiced CPR positioning to ensure familiarity with procedure execution should a medical emergency occur.
NG-15 Cargo Operations: Today, the crew performed NG-15 cargo transfer operations and will continue to work on NG-15 cargo operations throughout the week.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PRO LSG Facility Activation Commanding
PRO CIR Activation Commanding
Structural Dynamics Measurement System (SDMS) Data Dump

