
Human Research Program (Biochemical Profile, Marrow, Vascular Echo, and Repository):  53S crewmembers collected blood and urine samples for their Return minus 14-day session of the Biochem Profile, Marrow and Repository investigations.  One of the 53S crewmembers also started a 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring session.  Blood samples are being processed in the alternate non-refrigerated centrifuge due to the issues experienced yesterday with the refrigerated centrifuge.   A 54S crewmember also collected urine samples for his Flight Day 60 session of the Biochem Profile and Repository investigations.

The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
Vascular Echo examines changes in blood vessels and the heart while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health, and quality of life for everyone.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. The repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Food Acceptability:  A crewmember completed a Food Acceptability questionnaire today. The Food Acceptability investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
OA-9 Robotics Onboard Training:  This afternoon, the crew scheduled to capture OA-9 performed an additional Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session and continued their review of Cygnus Attached Phase procedures prior to tomorrow’s OA-9 capture and berthing. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. 
Orbital-ATK 9 (OA-9): This evening ground teams will prepare and inspect the Node 1 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) in preparation for OA-9 capture and berthing planned for tomorrow, May 24th, 4:20 am CT.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Today the crew continued configuring EVA tools and equipment needed during the upcoming US EVA #51 Node 2 EWC planned for June 14th.  Additionally, the crew swapped Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) on the EMU Don/Doff Assembly (EDDAs) for upcoming EVA prep activities.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


HRF Generic Urine Collection
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
HRF Generic Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: Tsentrovka, SENSOR Tests
Vascular Echo 24-Hour Ambulatory BP Monitoring Initialization – Subject
MORZE. Log Entry of Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
HRF Generic Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Spin Conclude
HRF Generic Sample Photo
СТТС Reconfiguration in MRM1
XF305 Camcorder Setup
SEPARATION. СРВ-У-РС Flush. 
Mouse Stress Defense Closeout
Acoustic Monitor Setup for Crew Worn Measurements
HRF Generic Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
Brine/urine transfer from ЕДВ to Progress 438 Rodnik H2O tank 2
Glove Box Closeout
Conference of Search and Rescue (ГПСК) specialists with returning crew (S-band)
MELFI Icebrick Cleanup
PCS Laptop Relocate
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Installation of the MPCC Demo Payload Laptop (T61p) in Columbus
Cygnus Capture Review
Mouse Habitat Unit Interface Unit Removal
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
SEPARATION. СРВ-У-РС Flush.
Activation and BIOS Setup of the MPCC Demo Payload Laptop
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Wipe Post Mouse Stress Defense
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill Part 3
Comm reconfig for nominal ops
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Attached Phase Operations review.
Audio Conference with the Participants of the Youth Educational Forum “Ladoga”
Multi Omics Question
Food Acceptability Questionnaire Subject
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup [Aborted]
Max Cycle Ergometer w/ Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Set Up
URAGAN. Completion of Icarus PL Cable Installation.
Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Deployment Operations
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab [Aborted]
KUBIK Temperature Adjustment to 20°C
Cygnus Capture Review
Surface Sampler Kit (SSK) and Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Analysis T + 5
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Power Up
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 2
Vascular Echo 24-Hour Ambulatory BP Monitoring Crew Time Payback
URISYS Hardware Setup
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: Cattell’s Test
Sampling condensate water [КАВ] upstream of СРВ-К2М Gas-liquid mixture filter (ФГС) to drink bags, end
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: Strelau Test
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: SUPOS Test
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Stow
MORZE. Closeout Ops
MORZE. Experiment setup
Acoustic Monitor Battery Swap
Ghost camera setup in Cupola
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Conclude

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


JEM RMS SFA Installation
Node 1 CBM Inspection

