
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom 2:
SpaceX Crew Dragon Freedom successfully launched on Sunday, May 21st, at 4:37 PM CST and docked to the ISS on Monday, May 22nd, at 8:25 AM CST. This was the fastest launch to dock time for a Crew Dragon. With the arrival of the four private astronauts, Peggy Whitson, John Shoffner, Ali Alqarni, and Rayyanah Barnawi, the ISS crew complement has increased to 11. The Ax-2 crew participated in a live welcome ceremony and successfully completed the ISS safety briefing, crew handover time, Polar sample transfer, and setup of sleeping arrangements.
Payloads:
ECHO: Troubleshooting operations were performed on the spare Echo Unit. The purpose of the ECHO investigation is to evaluate a tele-operated ultrasound system, equipped with motorized probes that are controlled by flight controllers on the ground. Additionally, this investigation serves to perform the commissioning of the Echo instrument, which is planned to be used for the Vascular ECHO experiment in the future.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): ELF sample SN039 was removed for return and SN037 was installed into the ELF facility. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the Kibo Module.
Ring Sheared Drop (RSD): Set screws on the RSD syringe dispensing motor coupler were tightened as part of troubleshooting efforts to insure a proper connection. The RSD investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid.  Amyloids – fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues – are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): As a part of regularly scheduled maintenance, the crew removed and replaced the WHC UR and IF. During the R&R, the crew cleaned the WHC power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance.
ISS Safety Briefing: Today, all crew reviewed plans for emergency situations and locations of emergency equipment in the manned vehicles. The newly arrived crew gained familiarization with the available safety measures on-board ISS, the potential hazards, and the equipment needed for emergency response.
Completed Task List Activities:

CMS-T2-RR-STOW

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

C2V2 Broadcast
Docking Dragon Monitoring Tools Setup & Teardown
Docking Dragon Approach – Crewed
SDMS Activation
After Docking Configure for Docked Operations
Initiating 3 EDV Drains to RST using UTS
PPS BGA – Set to Autotrack Mode
Dragon Oxygen Manifold Bleed Down

