05-21-2010May 21, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/21/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    FD8 (Flight Day 8) of STS-132/ULF-4.  ISS Crew Wake – 1:50am EDT ISS Crew Sleep – 4:50pm  Mission ULF-4’s EVA-3 was completed successfully by EV1 Mike Good & EV2 Garrett Reisman in 6h 46m, accomplishing all objectives plus one get-ahead.  Beginning this morning at 6:27am EDT (about 20 min ahead of timeline), the spacewalk ended at 1:13pm.     [EV1 & EV2 began their “campout” last night in the U.S. Airlock (A/L) with hatch closure and depressurization of the Crewlock (CL) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe.  Following the usual hygiene break/with mask prebreathe for Good & Reisman at 2:30am-3:40am, the A/L hatch was closed again by Tracy Caldwell-Dyson & Ken Ham for EVA preps in 10.2 psi, followed by EMU purge and prebreathe in the EMUs.  Afterwards, with CL depressurization and EV1/EV2 switching to suit power, EVA-3 began at 6:27am.  The excursion lasted 6h 46m.]  During EVA-3, Good & Reisman –  Installed a P4/P5 NH3 (ammonia) jumper;Installed the two remaining batteries (E, F) at the P6 truss, storing the old units (#5, #6) on the ICC (Integrated Cargo Carrier) pallet;Cleaned up the P6 truss;Retrieved a PDGF (Power & Data Grapple Fixture) from the Orbiter PLB (payload bay) and took it inside the A/L (to be installed on the FGB during the Stage EVA-15 by Caldwell-Dyson & Wheelock on 7/8, thus creating a new base point for the SSRMS);Removed & re-installed P1 RGFSB (P1 Radiator Grapple Fixture Stowage Beam) – deferred from 19A EVA-2 in April;Re-secured a MLI (Multi-Layer Insulation) cavity flap on EOTP (Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform) Input Drive at SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator), - a get-ahead; andStowed & organized EVA tools in the Z1 ETSD (External Tool Stowage Device), - a get-ahead.   Before the EVA, FE-5 Noguchi –  Powered down the amateur/ham radio equipment to prevent RF interference with the spacewalkers’ radio,Activated the VSWs (Video Streaming Workstations) and SSC-1 (Station Support Computer 1) laptops for the video “scheme” of converting RS (Russian Segment) video signals to US format and downlinking “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band, andInhibited the CUCU (COTS UHF Communications Unit) in the Lab (O4) by opening four circuit breakers.  While Steve Bowen & Ken Ham provided campout & prebreathe support, Tracy Caldwell-Dyson & Piers Sellers supported the spacewalkers by operating the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) from the Cupola.     [SSRMS first assisted at the P6 worksite for the battery R&R, then moved the ICC pallet with the old batteries to the POA (Payload ORU Accommodation) on the MSS MT (Mobile Service System Mobil Transporter) and released it in that Translate/Stow location.  Final ICC berthing in the Shuttle PLB is scheduled tomorrow at ~3:35pm EDT.]  After the EVA-3, FE-6 Creamer –  Deactivated the video VSW/SSC “scheme”,Took the standard photographs of the EMU gloves for ground inspection, andRe-configured the C&T (Command & Tracking) video set-up in Node-2, installing the video cap which enables pass-through reception of video from the Atlantis with the Orbiter docked in support of SSRMS ops.  Other post-ingress activities, by Ham, Bowen, Reisman & Good, included the usual post-EVA tasks like recharging EMUs with water (a full water dump was performed on EMU #3009 before normal recharge, because of an air bubble observed earlier), downloading & downlinking D2XS EVA & glove photography, recharging REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly) batteries, etc.  At wake-up, CDR Kotov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-1 Skvortsov also did the daily morning check on the TBU Universal Bioengineering Thermostat container and reported its current internal temperature to TsUP-Moscow.   The CDR conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Kotov also performed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  In preparation for his return to gravity on 6/2 with Creamer & Noguchi, Oleg Kotov afterwards undertook the second training session (of five) of the Russian MO-5 MedOps protocol of cardiovascular evaluation in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP) on the Russian VELO ergometer, assisting by Mikhail Kornienko as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).     [The 50-min assessment, supported by ground specialist tagup (VHF) and telemetry monitoring from Russian ground site (DO3, 6:49am-7:09am), uses the Gamma-1 ECG equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels. The Chibis ODNT provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Romanenko’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after several months in zero-G.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, today set at -25, -30, -35 and -40 mmHg for five min. each while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]  After Mikhail Kornienko terminated overnight charging of the KPT-2 Piren battery, he & Oleg Kotov conducted another session with the Russian KPT-2 BAR payload for about 2.5 hrs, taking background environmental parameters in the SM (Service Module) in areas sampled on 3/4-5 by Oleg Kotov with the KPT-12/Expert experiment and found to have high microflora growth indications behind panel 250 and on specific surface areas of the pressurized shell.  CDR & FE-3 used the new Piren-B Pyro-endoscope instrument and Iva-6A Thermal Hygrometer (to identify potential condensation areas), with the RSE1 laptop.  The measurements are required to forecast the rate of local shell micro-destruction and to develop measures to extend station life.      [Piren-B, a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, is part of the methods & means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Besides Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]  FE-5 Noguchi was the subject of another periodic 30-min US PHS (Periodic Health Status)/Without Blood Labs exam, assisted by Creamer as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Soichi later logged the data and stowed the equipment.  A subjective evaluation was part of the test.    [The assessment used the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data were then logged on the MEC and the hardware stowed.  The PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software on the MEC laptop.]  Afterwards, Soichi Noguchi –  Restowed ice bricks from their temporary location at +4 degC after the ULF-4 DCB (Double Coldbag) unpack activity,Performed successful troubleshooting on the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) which had stopped dispensing hot water on FD5; today’s circuit breaker resetting recovered the heaters (the crew had used hot water from the Shuttle Galley after FD5),Conducted the visual T+2 Day microbial (bacterial & fungal) analysis of the “ULF-4” water samples collected by him on 4/26 from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Hot and Ambient lines from each port in a small waste water bag, using the MCDs (Microbial Capture Devices) and CDBs (Coliform Detection Bags)  [FE-5 reported 72 degF temp, no growth on MCD, normal CDF (color yellow)], andCompleted another round of the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), his 6th, logging in on the MEC laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application  [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies].  In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-6 Creamer installed the new ERNOBOX at the aft port cone and established SUP (Standard Utility Panel) power & data connections, before switching the equipment on. (Deferred from 5/4) [The ERNO (Entwicklungsring Nord) box contains various radiation devices, including LEON-2 CPU (Central Processing Unit) developed by ATMEL/France and ESA, new memory devices, large SRAM (Static Random Access Memory)-based FPGAs (Field-Programmable Gate Arrays), and MEMS (Microelectromechanical Systems) sensors.  The radiation-hardened LEON-2 microprocessor chip is the first implementation of a LEON CPU-core in silicon, with SPARC compliance.  SPARC (Scalable Processor Architecture), invented by Sun Microsystems Inc., is an open set of technical specifications that any person or company can license and use to develop microprocessors and other semiconductor devices based on published industry standards.]  Next, Timothy assembled the VIS (Vessel ID System) and installed it also at the aft port cone, module side, then made power & data connections to the ERNOBOX and RF connection to the antenna.  For the long-term experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), TJ downloaded data from the Actiwatches worn by himself & Tracy to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop, then initialized them.  FE-6 also installed fresh lithium batteries in two Actiwatches for the SLEEP participants arriving with Soyuz 23S and initialized them.  Then, Creamer unpacked the ULF-4-delivered IMAK (ISS Medical Accessory Kit, #4015), stowing its contents, mostly personal medical items for Shannon Walker, due to arrive on 6/17 with Soyuz 23S.  Skvortsov & Kornienko continued preparing the new MRM1 Rassvet module for unloading.    [Yesterday, upon ingress in MRM-1, the crew reported floating metal shavings.  They closed the hatch and ran the circulation fans overnight in order for the filters to capture the shavings.  Upon ingress today, wearing PPE (Personal Protection Equipment), Misha & Sasha reported that the amount of metal shavings had significantly decreased.  Tonight, the crew will remove MRM1 panels 201 & 202, close the hatch and activate the dust fans again to help capture the remaining shavings.  This is not an uncommon experience with new modules, exposed to zero-G for the first time.]   FE-1 performed periodic service of the RS radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), recording data from detectors in the Bubble-dosimeter reader and rearranging some dosimeters.     [Eight Bubble dosimeter detectors (A09-A16) are positioned at their exposure locations around the RS.  The deployment locations of the detectors and their measurements were reported to TsUP-Moscow via log sheet over OCA.  The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls.]  Skvortsov also conducted the regular status check of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment hardware for taking structural dynamics data during the docked period.     [Data calldown to TsUP must be done once a day during joint flight of ULF-4 with the ISS, the file downlink and restart every third day.  IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]  Starting a new round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, Alexander inspected & cleaned “Group A” ventilator fans & grilles in the SM, then changed out the cartridges of the four dust filters (PF1-4), discarding the used cartridges.  Afterwards, Sasha had another hour set aside for more newsreel shooting using the using the SONY HVR-Z7 #2 high-definition camcorder as part of the ongoing effort to create a photo & video imagery database on the flight of ISS-23/24 (“Flight Chronicles”).     [Footage subjects are to be focused on include life on the station, personal hygiene, food intake, playing with water, enjoying weightlessness, exercise, moving about, station interior, Earth surface, space clothing, cosmonaut at work, station cleaning, etc.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]  After retrieving a Simvolika kit from Soyuz 21P-delivered cargo, CDR Kotov spent ~1h on the traditional Russian preparation of commemorative (“symbolic”) items, stamping 100 envelopes with the image of MRM1 while being auto-recorded on video.  The activity included shooting a group picture of the ISS-23 crew with envelopes in their hands.  The envelopes were then stowed in 21S for return.  Later, Oleg conducted the periodic (currently daily) checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1. This checkup is especially important when the ventilation/circulation system has to cope with a larger crew on board, currently twelve persons.]  Noguchi & Caldwell-Dyson filled out their weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC.    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  In preparation for the JAXA experiment MYCO (Mycological Evaluation of Crew Exposure to ISS Ambient Air), Tracy distributed drinking water (100 mL) from PWD to participating crewmembers (CDR Ken Ham, MS1 Garrett Reisman & herself) along with a MYCO Kit for use first thing tomorrow morning, then reviewed procedural requirements with the crew.  The sample collections and MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) insertions must be made within 60 hrs before Shuttle hatch closure.    [MYCO evaluates the risk of microorganisms via inhalation and adhesion to the skin to determine which fungi act as allergens on the ISS.  MYCO samples are to be collected from the nasal cavity, the pharynx and the skin of crew during preflight, in flight and postflight focusing particularly on fungi which act as strong allergens in our living environment.  Before sample collection, crewmembers are not to eat or drink anything except water, nor wash their face, brush their teeth, or gargle after they wake up to avoid science loss.]  Oleg, TJ & Soichi again had ~60 min set aside for regular crew departure preparations, working on the standard end-of-increment cleanup preparatory to their return.     [It is usual for crewmembers to be granted reduced workdays for making their departure preparations, as their return date approaches.]  The ISS crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-3).  At ~5:05am EDT, the three Russian crewmembers supported two PAO TV events, downlinking messages of greetings (1) to the TV Show “In The Service of Russia”, which started as a radio show, “In The Service of Soviet Union!”, about 80 years ago and will air a holiday edition on 5/23, and (2) to the Syzran Higher Military Aviation School for Pilots (VVAUL).    [VVAUL is the only higher educational institution in the Russian Federation that trains helicopter pilots and counts among its alumni 51 Heroes of the USSR & Russian Federation, 51 major generals, 14 lieutenant generals and 2 colonel generals plus thousands of highly decorated officers.]  WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.    [The updated card (23-0003I) lists 114 CWCs (2,717.9 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (21 CWCs with 868.9 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 347.6 L in 9 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 387.1 L in 9 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 2 bags with 66.6 L require sample analysis, 4 bags with 170.8 L are to be used with microbial filter & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (75 CWCs with 1,380.8 L),  4. condensate water (7 bags with 73 L, including 2 CWCs with 43.4 L that are to be used with microbial filter, and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 28.5 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  Sleep cycle shifting:  Crew sleep/wake cycle is shifting, returning to normal on 5/24-25.  Current schedule for ISS crew (EDT):       Date SLEEP WAKE   5/21-22 5:20pm 1:50am   5/22-23 4:20pm 12:50am   5/23-24 4:50pm 2:00am   5/24-25 5:30pm 2:00am    