
Payloads
Astrobee: The crew powered off the Astrobee hardware that was used for the previous day’s Robo-Pro Challenge checkout. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Systems 
Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) Remove & Replace (R&R): Today, the crew performed an R&R of the Node 2 MTL PPA. This PPA experienced transient failures first seen in October 2019 with a recurrence in March 2020. Since March, the frequency of hydraulic events increased indicating the PPA was deteriorating. The issue appeared to be internal to the Pump/Fan Motor Controller (PFMC) which could not be replaced individually. With the PFMC being internal to the PPA, the entire PPA required replacement to resolve the issue. The MTL PPA is responsible for providing coolant pumping, gas removal and coolant filtration in the USOS segment and consists of a pump assembly, gas trap and filter assembly.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Operations: Today the crew performed a drain of the Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Recycle Tank to an empty ЕДВ-У. Once the Recycle Tank drain was complete, the crew performed a visual check of the Recycle Tank quantity indicator to verify it was indicating empty. The crew then reconfigured the Recycle Tank valves to the “Fill” configuration and transferred the contents of ЕДВ-У serial# 1304 to the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Waste Water Storage Tank (WSTA). Finally, the crew configured the UPA drain/fill valves to “process” so the pre-treated urine can be processed by the UPA.
Completed Task List Activities:

PCS Relocate – A/L to Cupola
PCS Relocate – JEM to LAB

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


SDMS Recording During БД-2 Testing
UPA Recycle Tank Drain/Fill Ground Support
C2V2 Activation and Backup KCU Activation in prep for DM-2
OGA to standby in support of Elektron activation
DDCU Reconfig and Powerdown/up for Node 2 MTL Pump R&R
Safing/Safing Removal for Node 2 MTL Pump R&R


Node 2 MTL Deactivation/Activation in support of Node 2 MTL PPA R&R

