05-20-2010May 20, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/20/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    FD7 (Flight Day 7) of STS-132/ULF-4.  ISS Crew Wake – 1:50am EDT ISS Crew Sleep – 5:20pm  At wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-1 Skvortsov terminated his 4th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/ Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  FE-1 also did the daily morning check on the TBU Universal Bioengineering Thermostat container and reported its current internal temperature to TsUP-Moscow.   Upon wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson, FE-5 Noguchi & FE-6 Creamer completed another session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Mikhail Kornienko conducted the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated at ~4:45pm EDT before sleep time.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 4/30-5/1).]  In the RS (Russian Segment), the big event today was the opening of and first ingress in the newly arrived MRM-2 (MIM2) Rassvet Mini-Research Module, docked at FGB nadir.   Spending most of their workhours on these activities, CDR Kotov & FE-1 Skvortsov –  Configured STTS intermodule communications between FGB & MRM1 for operating in the latter,Set up internal lighting for MRM1 ingress,Readied the IPD & AK-1M equipment for sampling the air in Rassvet,Conducted, on TsUP Go, a one-hour leak check at the FGB GA (Pressurized Adapter) and MRM1 interface,Opened, on TsUP Go, the vestibule hatches between GA/SU (Docking Unit) & MRM1/SU,Performed the standard first-ingress sampling of the cabin atmosphere, looking for CO (Carbon Monoxide) with the IPD-CO Draeger tubes, for Formaldehyde with the IPD-Formaldehyde analyzer, and for air constituents with two AK-1M samplers, one before, the other after air scrubbing (but before IMV/Intermodular Ventilation activation),Started several hours of air scrubbing,Performed final ingress in MRM1, andUninstalled & removed the StM Docking Mechanism, after taking documentary photographs of the StM and downlinking them to the ground.  Later, Skvortsov verified proper operation of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM (Service Module) for taking structural dynamics data during the onboard activities.  Afterwards, Alexander downlinked the measurement data to the ground.     [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]  In the US Lab, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson performed the periodic status check & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5) payload.  In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), with the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) camcorder pointed to cover her activities, Tracy performed troubleshooting on the VMU DLT (Video Management Unit / Digital Line Tape) of the FSL (Fluids Science Laboratory).     [The DLT came with the new Tape Recorder which Soichi Noguchi installed on 3/5 along with two new HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) to upgrade the VMU.  Today’s troubleshooting consisted of demating and then remating the data & power connector from/to the VMU DLT Tape Recorder in order to ensure a tight and stable connection.  Documentary photographs were also taken.]  After retrieving a protective 14" coldplate/wireway cover (“cookie sheet”) from the JAXA JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment), Tracy & TJ Creamer performed IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly) in ARS-1 (Atmosphere Revitalization System) Rack 1 in Node-3, installing the newly-arrived Desiccant/Sorbent Bed 202.  The “cookie sheet” was then returned to JLP.     [CDRA Bed 202 has been functioning to date without its temperature sensor B, by-passed by Creamer on 3/25 because of “out-of-family” signature, but with sensors A & C working OK.]   Kornienko conducted the periodic (currently daily) checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1. This checkup is especially important when the ventilation/circulation system has to cope with a larger crew on board, currently twelve persons.]  Afterwards, FE-3 did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Misha also performed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-5 Noguchi worked on the JAXA Fish Scales experiment, installed by him on 5/16 in the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) on the Saibo Rack for incubating two of the samples, and took documentary photography.    [Soichi prepared the two samples for fixation and stowed them in MELFI-2 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 2).  The remaining samples were fixed and stored in MELFI’s -95 degC Dewar, except for one, which went into the +2 degC Dewar.  All frozen samples will be moved on FD9 (5/22), after a minimum of 24 hrs conditioning, to the Atlantis GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator) and the +2 degC sample in a DCB (Double Coldbag) before hatch closure.  Fish Scales investigates osteoclastic & osteoblastic responses in micro-G using goldfish scales, i.e., the regeneration of scales collected from anesthetized goldfish in space and comparing results with ground controls.  In mammals, bone is formed and maintained by continuous remodeling through bone resorption by resorptive cells called osteoclasts, and subsequent new bone formation by formative cells called osteoblasts.  The experiment investigates these bone metabolism processes in space.]   Noguchi then completed chemical testing of the 20 mL water samples collected by him yesterday from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) and SM SRV-K Warm, SRV-K Hot & SVO-ZV taps, using EHS C-SPE (Environmental Health System / Colorimetric Solid-Phase Extraction) analysis and the CWQMK (Colorimetric Water Quality Monitoring Kit), first establishing an Iodine standard, then completing the Silver standard and analysis.     [Results of the Iodine standard & analyses and of the Silver standard & analyses were downlinked via OSTPV Crew Note.]  Well before MRM1 hatch opening, FE-6 Creamer started another sampling run (the 96th) with the EHS GC/DMS (Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later (after it presumably had captured potential hatch opening impacts).     [Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  Also for monitoring MRM1 hatch opening effects on the cabin atmosphere, Timothy took GSC (Grab Sample Container) samples (to contrast with the ones taken on 5/18.)  Later, TJ conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.    [The current card (23-0003H) lists 105 CWCs (2,533.9 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (24 CWCs with 909.3 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 388 L in 12 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 387.1 L in 9 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 2 bags with 66.6 L require sample analysis, 4 bags with 170.8 L are to be used with microbial filter & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (63 CWCs with 1,158.6 L),  4. condensate water (7 bags with 73 L, including 2 CWCs with 43.4 L that are to be used with microbial filter, and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 26.3 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  Other activities completed by TJ Creamer included –  The weekly offloading of the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) from WRS (Water Recovery System) Rack 1 into a CWC-I (Collapsible Water Container-Iodine) with the common H2O transfer hose (which took about 23 min) from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Auxiliary Port, then flushing the system,Another round of the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), his 7th, logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application  [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies],Filling out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC [on the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily],Performing routine service on the prime CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) unit (#1042) by replacing its battery (#1133) with a new one (#1192),Initiating recharge on the D2XS EVA camera batteries, andRe-configuring the cameras for the next spacewalk, EVA-3, tomorrow.   Also for EVA-3, Soichi went to make sure that the VDS (Video Distribution System) video cap in Node-2 was properly installed (so that VDS can receive video from the docked Atlantis in preparation for SSRMS operations during crew sleep).  Kornienko retrieved a Simvolika kit from the MRM1 and spent close to 3 hrs on the traditional Russian preparation of commemorative (“symbolic”) items of MRM1’s addition to the ISS, to be returned in part on the Soyuz 21S vehicle (packages #1-#6) and in part on STS-132 (packages #7-#17).      [The Simvolika items consist of 17 packages with several hundred Rassvet pennants, which Mikhail imprinted with the ISS stamp, repacked into rubber-lined bags and stowed in 21S and Atlantis.]   Misha also had another hour set aside for more newsreel shooting using the using the SONY HVR-Z7 #2 high-definition camcorder as part of the ongoing effort to create a photo & video imagery database on the flight of ISS-23/24 (“Flight Chronicles”).     [Footage subjects are to be focused on include life on the station, personal hygiene, food intake, playing with water, enjoying weightlessness, exercise, moving about, station interior, Earth surface, space clothing, cosmonaut at work, station cleaning, etc.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]  Later, FE-3 initiated recharge of the KPT-2 Piren battery used on 5/18 in the SM with the new Piren-B Pyro-endoscope for the BAR experiment.  Caldwell-Dyson made her way through the station deploying new (ULF-4) SODF (Station Operations Data File) Warning Books (3 copies) and 9 Emergency Books (Vol. 1 “EMER-1”, 6 copies; 3 Vol. 2 “EMER-2”, 3 copies) and trashing old (outdated) procedural material.     [ULF-4 EMER-1 (red cover) & -2 (orange cover) were deposited in Lab, Soyuz 21S, Soyuz 22S, SM, Airlock & Node-2.  The Warning Books went into Lab, SM & FGB.]  Mikhail performed the regular monthly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization).     [This requires inspecting the condition of harnesses, belt slats, corner bracket ropes, IRBAs (Isolation Restorative Bungee Assemblies) and gyroscope wire ropes for any damage or defects, lubricating as required plus recording time & date values, and making sure that the display cable and skirt were properly secured afterwards.]  Oleg, TJ & Soichi again had ~60 min set aside for regular crew departure preparations, working on the standard end-of-increment cleanup preparatory to their return.     [It is usual for crewmembers to be granted reduced workdays for making their departure preparations, as their return date approaches.]  FE-2, FE-5 & FE-6 had their regular PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, TJ at ~10:35am, Soichi at ~10:55am, Tracy at ~12:15pm EDT.  The ISS crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-3).  At ~8:25am, Tracy joined CDR Ken Ham, PLT Tony Antonelli & MS-4 Piers Sellers in a PAO TV event of three media interviews, with (1) Associated Press (Marcia Dunn), (2) Fox News Radio (Eben Brown), and (3) CBS News (Peter King, Bill Harwood).  At ~12:36pm, Timothy powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 12:41pm conducted a ham radio session with students at Pita Kallak School, Kuujjuanq, Quebec, Canada.     [Kuujjuaq, Nunavik's largest community, is located on the west shore of the Koksoak River, about 50 km upstream from Ungava Bay.  Kuujjuaq was known before by another name, that of Fort Chimo.  'Chimo' is a mispronunciation of the phrase saimuk, 'Let's shake hands!'  Early fur traders were often welcomed with this phrase which they eventually adopted as the name of the trading post.  The construction of a U.S. Air Force base (Crystal 1) in 1942 on the west shore of the Koksoak River, the site of today's settlement, and the occupation of the site by the American army from 1941-1945 sped up the development of the community.  After the end of World War II, the US turned the base over to the Canadian government.  In 1948, a Catholic mission was established, followed by a nursing station, a school and a weather station.  When the HBC (Hudson Bay Company) moved upstream closer to the airstrips in 1958, it was followed by the remaining families that still lived across the river at Fort Chimo.  In 1961, a co-operative was created.]   AT ~1:45pm, Caldwell-Dyson, Noguchi & Creamer joined the Shuttle crew for an in-depth one-hour procedures review for tomorrow’s EVA-3 spacewalk, with egress scheduled at ~6:45am.  At ~6:50pm, Reisman (EV1) & Good (EV3) will begin their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) in the A/L with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe (~4:15pm-5:20pm) and sleep from 5:50pm-1:50am.  The usual hygiene break, with temporary repress to 14.7psi and depress back to 10.2psi, is scheduled for 2:30am-3:40am.   [Sleep for the ISS crew begins at 5:20pm.]  EVA-3 Objectives:   Because of yesterday’s excellent spacewalk performance by Bowen & Good, getting well ahead of their timeline and transferring one more battery than planned, EVA-3 has been replanned to include about 25 minutes of get-aheads:  Install two remaining batteries (E, F) at the P6 truss, returning the old units (#5, #6) on the ICC (Integrated Cargo Carrier) pallet;Clean up the P6 truss;Install P4/P5 NH3 (ammonia) jumper;Retrieve Orbiter PDGF (Power & Data Grapple Fixture);Remove & re-install P1 RGFSB (P1 Radiator Grapple Fixture Stowage Beam) – deferred from 19A EVA-2 in April;Re-secure MLI (Multi-Layer Insulation) cavity flap on EOTP (Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform) Input Drive at SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator), - get-ahead;Stow EVA tools (can be broken up), - get-ahead.  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  Sleep cycle shifting:  Crew sleep/wake cycle is shifting, returning to normal on 5/24-25.  Current schedule for ISS crew (EDT):       Date SLEEP WAKE   5/20-21 5:20pm 1:50am   5/21-22 5:20pm 1:50am   5/22-23 4:20pm 12:50am   5/23-24 4:50pm 2:00am   5/24-25 5:30pm 2:00am    