
Kubik 6:  After completing commissioning for ESA’s Kubik 6 facility the crew disconnected and stowed the Kubik 6.  Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator/cooler used to study biological samples in a microgravity environment.  It is equipped with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic experiments using seeds, cells, and small animals.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF):  The crew exchanged the sample cartridges in ELF and stowed the processed sample for return.  ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. 
Barrios Protein Crystal Growth (PCG):  The crew mixed solutions in a crystallization plate.  Barrios PCG focuses on the successful transfer and mixing of different solutions into commercial off-the-shelf multiwell plates. Video of the growth of the protein crystals in the multiwell plates will be downlinked for evaluation. 
Orbital ATK (OA)-9 Cygnus:  The crew completed a training session to practice emergency response actions that need to be taken with Cygnus attached.  They also continued with Cygnus cargo operations. 
Soyuz (53S) Return Cargo Packing: The crew started packing the cargo that will return on 53S. The remaining packing will be completed prior to undocking. 
External Television Camera Group (ETVCG) Disassembly:  The crew disassembled the ETVCG that was retrieved from Camera Port (CP)-13 during EVA #50 on May 16, 2018 and removed the Pan and Tilt Unit (PTU) with the Television Camera Interface Converter (TVCIC). The TVCIC was then removed and stowed.  The crew will install a new TVCIC on the PTU and then reassemble the ETVCG at a later date. The newly assembled ETVCG will be installed at Camera Port CP-3 during EVA #51. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Retrieval
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ (КОВ) for Elektron-VM or ЕДВ-СВ
Soyuz descent training
Soyuz 737 Descent Drill, Return Equipment List & Stowage Consultation
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Cleaning
Transfer Operations – Prepack of US items to be loaded into Soyuz
NanoRacks Maintenance Work Area Preparation
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Installation
Adjusting position of the control valve [КР] and the [СКВ1] heating valve [ВН1] in the SM Air Conditioning System.
NanoRacks Maintenance Work Area Relocation
Auxiliary Laptop Computer System Virus Definition File Update
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 (T2) Exercise Session
Removal of СО Gas Analyzer ГЛ2106
CONTROL. Switching Indicator-ISS P/L measuring modes
LBNP Training (PRELIMINARY)
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations
Kubik 6 Temperature and Centrifuge Data Copy
Changeout of ПФ1 & ПФ2 Dust Filters (ФГБ1ПГО_4_419_1, bag 437-13 (00072389R)). Discard de-installed items. Reflect changes in the IMS and Cleaning В1, В2 Fan Screens in DC1
Preventive maintenance of MRM1 АСП Hatch Sealing Mechanism and Soyuz 737 hatch
Disconnection and Stowing of KUBIK 6
Countermeasures System (CMS) Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Kit Consolidate
NanoRacks Maintenance Work Area Return
Recharging Soyuz 737 Samsung PC Battery, start charging
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Cygnus Cargo Operations Conference
СКПФ1,СКПФ2 dust filters in MRM1
Soyuz 737 Stowage Ops for Return
Biomolecule Sequencer Software Install Prep
Biomolecule Sequencer Software Checkout
On board Training Cygnus Emergency Procedure Review
ISS Crew departure preparation
Pressurization of Elektron-VM Liquid Unit before Activation
External TV Camera Group (ETVCG) Teardown
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules OBT
Checking БД-2 treadmill carriage position. Photograph position of БД-2 carriage relative to pullout roller by lifting БД-2 curtain. Downlink photo via OCA
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules Hardware Gather
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Manufacturing Device Stow
Polar Desiccant Swap
In-flight Maintenance (IFM) External Television Camera Group (ETVCG) Color Television Camera (CTVC) and Pan/Tilt Unit (PTU) Disassembly
Manufacturing Device Locker and Cable Setup
Recharging Soyuz 737 Samsung PC Battery, end charging
Delta file prep
Polar Desiccant Swap
Cold Atom Lab Station Support Computer Relocate Part 1
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Radiation Area Monitors (RAM) Retrieval
ISS Crew departure preparation
Meteor Hard Drive Swapout

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


NANO Barrios PCG support

