05-26-2010May 26, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/26/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       STS-132/Atlantis (ISS-ULF4) returned to Earth safely this morning on the first opportunity, landing at KSC at 8:48am EDT after a flight duration of 11d 18h 29min 9sec, 186 orbits, and over 4.8 million stat.mi. covered distance.  Welcome back, Ken, Tony, Garrett, Mike, Steve and Piers! [During its docked period, Atlantis delivered the Russian-built MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet (Dawn) and six new batteries stored on a cargo carrier (ICC).  It was the 132nd space shuttle flight in history, the 32nd for Atlantis, and the 34th Shuttle flight to the ISS (the 11th – and final – for Atlantis).  Its touchdown was the 75th landing Cape.]   At wake-up, CDR Kotov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [CDR again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-1 Skvortsov did the daily morning check on the TBU Universal Bioengineering Thermostat container and reported its current internal temperature to TsUP-Moscow.   Also after wake-up, FE-6 Creamer & FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson continued the new week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), TJ’s 6th, Tracy’s 3rd, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Oleg Kotov, Soichi Noguchi & Timothy Creamer started out with the periodic before-breakfast session of the Russian biomedical routine assessment PZEh-MO-8/Body Mass Measurement using the IM mass measurement device.  Kotov set up the IM and later stowed it away again.     [For determining body mass in zero-G, where things are weightless but not massless, the Russian IM "scales" for MO-8 measure the inertial forces that arise during the oscillatory motion of a mass driven by two helical metering springs with known spring constants.  By measuring the time period of each oscillation of the unknown mass (the crewmember) and comparing it to the period of a known mass, the crewmember’s mass is calculated by the computer and displayed.].  Kotov & Noguchi then spent two hours in the Soyuz 21S spacecraft’s SA Descent Module to conduct the Soyuz descent drill, a standard training exercise for every crew returning on a Soyuz.   Results of the exercise, which strictly forbids any command activation (except for switching the InPU display), were subsequently reported to ground control at TsUP/Moscow.     [The session includes a review of the pertinent ODFs (operational data files), specifically the books on Soyuz Ascent & Descent Procedures, Emergency Descents, and Off-Nominal Situations, crew responsibilities when executing the flight program, visual crew recognition of SUS (Entry Control System) failures, spacesuit procedures, etc., with special emphasis on operations with the Neptune-ME cockpit console.  The training uses a Descent Simulator application (Trenasher Spusk =”descent trainer”) on the RSK1 laptop.  During the actual descent, Kotov, as Soyuz CDR, will occupy the middle couch, with Noguchi in the left & Creamer in the right Kazbek couch.   Pending the final State Commission decision at about 3.5h before undocking, 21S return is expected on 6/2 (next Wednesday).]  Caldwell-Dyson had most of her work agenda reserved for replacing the DCM (Diagnostic Control Module) in the CIR HiBMS (Combustion Integrated Rack / High Bit Depth/Multispectral) imaging package in the Lab, for which she had made preparations yesterday.      [Specifically, Tracy’s job consisted of demating electrical connections & QDs (quick disconnects), then translating out & rotating down the Optics Bench to access the FCF LCTF (Fluids & Combustion Facility / Liquid Crystal Tunable Filter) DCM in the HiBMS and replacing it with a spare DCM from stowage.  Afterwards, the Optics Bench was rotated up & translated in again, the CIR doors were shut and the equipment closed out.  The DCM is the software controller for the HiBMS Imaging Package.  Following this replacement, the ground will be able to resume science test points.]   Mikhail Kornienko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Misha also used the CMS (Countermeasure System), a component of the SKDS GANK-4M suite, to perform the standard check on the SM (Service Module) cabin air, today looking for Carbon Monoxide, Acetic Acid and Nitrous Gases.     [CMS uses preprogrammed microchips to measure for numerous contaminants such as O-Xylol (1,2-Dimethylbenzol, C8H10), Hydrogen Chloride (HCl), Formaldehyde, Isopropanol, Methanol, Toluene, Mercaptan, Sulphur dioxide, Hydrogen Cyanide, Phosgene, etc.],  FE-6 Creamer started another sampling run (the 98th) with the EHS GC/DMS (Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.     [Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  Timothy then had ~30 min for continuing the crew’s search for empty EHS TOCA WWBs (Environmental Health System / Total Organic Carbon Analyzer / Waste Water Bags), without which no TOCA runs can be performed since the current bag is full.     [Still “no joy” on today’s search.  The WWB change-out reported here yesterday was in error – the run did not take place.   Background: The last successful TOCA WWB changeout was performed on 4/5 by Soichi; the next swap was scheduled on 5/19, but empty WWBs could not be found in the IMS-specified Lab location.  On 5/24, the replacement was scheduled again, and TJ verified that the WWBs indeed could not be found at the specified location.]   FE-5 Noguchi performed regular service on the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment), changing out its UR (Urine Receptacle) hose and IF (Insert Filter), then vacuumed the entire WHC and cleaned it with disinfectant wipes.     [The old UR & IF were double-bagged and stowed for disposal.]  Later, Soichi set up the urine equipment.  Creamer gathered tools and WRS (Water Recovery System) RFTA caps for tomorrow’s scheduled RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) removal & replacement.  In the US  Airlock, FE-6 initiated the standard one-hour post-mission scrubs of EMUs (Extravehicular Mobility Units) #3009 & #3010 cooling loops with their SCUs (Service & Cooling Umbilicals), filtering ionic & particulate matter (via a 3-micron filter), then reconfiguring the cooling loops and starting the ~2hr biocide filtering.      [EMU #3009 was installed on the forward EDDA (EMU Don/Doff Assembly), #3010 on the aft EDDA.  Loop scrubbing, incl. iodination of the LCVGs (Liquid Cooling & Ventilation Garments) for biocidal maintenance is done to eliminate any biomass and particulate matter that may have accumulated in the loops.]  For more bioscience sample preservation during the new Stage ULF-4 period, Noguchi continued preparing MELFI-2 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 2) by retrieving another 16 “ice bricks” (-32 degC) and inserted them into Dewar 1, Trays A, B, C & D (two bricks each into the two sections of each tray), as he had done for Dewar 2 on 5/24.  FE-5 also installed appropriately marked labels at the fireports of the Node-2 CQ (Crew Quarters) rack, Node-3 Cupola and Ku-band power supply.  FE-1 Skvortsov had 2h 50m reserved for undertaking his 2nd onboard session with the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment after setting up the workplace and equipment, assisted by Mikhail Kornienko who also took photos.  Later, the Pilot-M & Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled & stowed away, data files were downloaded, and Alexander reported to TsUP on his run.    [MBI-15 requires the Multipurpose Hardware Bench as a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO & RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) with software (v. 2.0) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.]  Kornienko & Skvortsov both went through the regular monthly session (their second) of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh their CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on Nosebleed (their first on Eye Treatment).   [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]   Alexander performed the periodic service of the RS (Russian Segment) radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), verifying proper function of its suite by taking readings with the LULIN-5 electronics box, set up in the MRM2 Poisk module near the spherical “phantom”.      [Background:  The Matryoshka facility has been used on the ISS for radiation science experiments since 2004, as follows:  MTR-1 was performed outside the ISS/SM with active & passive detectors 2/26/04 – 8/18/05; MTR-2A was performed inside (DC-1), with passive detectors only, 1/5/06 – 12/7/06); MTR-2B was conducted inside the Russian part of the ISS (DC-1 & SM) with active & passive detectors from 10/18/07 – 3//09.  The new Matryoshka-Kibo is the fourth experiment performed with the Matryoshka facility onboard the ISS; it covers for the first time measurements made inside the Japanese Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), complementing the earlier Matryoshka results by adding radiation data acquired during a different phase of the solar cycle.  For Matryoshka-Kibo, a new set of passive dosimeters will be delivered to the ISS on Progress and shortly thereafter installed in the “Phantom” which then will be transferred to its stowage location inside Kibo.]   With the STTS communications system temporarily configured for his stay in the MRM2, FE-3 Kornienko worked several hours at the Poisk Glovebox-X, performing the BTKh-16 KASKAD (Cascade) experiment.  Afterwards, the comm system was reset to nominal.     [After inserting the sample in the external Sterilizer and later in the Bioreactor, the latter was placed in the KT thermostatic enclosure and transferred to the DC1 Docking Compartment for inserting in the thermostatically controlled container KRIOGEM-03 at +29 deg C.  Sterilizer equipment and Glovebox-X were later closed out.  KASKAD investigates cultivation processes of micro-organism, animal & human cells in microgravity.]   All crewmembers took the periodic O-OHA (On-Orbit Hearing Assessment) test, a 30-min NASA environmental health systems examination to assess the efficacy of acoustic countermeasures, using a special software application on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.     [The O-OHA audiography test involves minimum audibility measurements for each ear over a wide range of frequencies (0.25-10 kHz) and sound pressure levels, with the crewmembers using individual-specific Prophonics earphones, new Bose ANC headsets (delivered on 30P) and the SLM (sound level meter).  To conduct the testing, the experimenter is supported by special EarQ software on the MEC, featuring an up/down-arrow-operated slider for each test frequency that the crewmember moves to the lowest sound pressure level at which the tone can still be heard.  The baseline test is required not later than about Flight Day 14 for each new Expedition and is then generally performed once per month.  Note: There has been temporary hearing deficits documented on some U.S. and Russian crewmembers, all of which recovered to pre-mission levels.]  TJ accessed the currently inactive OGS (Oxygen Generation System) and disconnected the O2 (oxygen) outlet hose with its QD from the N2 (nitrogen) purge ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit).      [OGA (Oxygen Generator Assembly) is unable to run due to a malfunctioning delta-pressure sensor in the water pump ORU.  There is no spare sensor onboard but there is a spare pump ORU.  O2 is good through Soyuz 23S docking, and several sources exist for additional O2 if needed.  Working “around” the sensor is also being investigated.  Background: On 5/22, the OGA underwent a Fast Shutdown while in Standby Mode.  A data dump confirmed that the differential pressure across the pump dropped from 6.9 psi to a value below 2 psi.  Due to the low dP, the automatic FDIR (Fault Detection, Isolation & Recovery) commanded a Fast Shutdown.]  At ~11:30am, Soichi Noguchi conducted another VHF-1 emergency communications proficiency check over NASA’s VHF (Very High Frequency) stations, today with the VHF sites at Dryden (11:34:30am-11:40:37am) & White Sands (11:35:07am-11:42:31am), talking with Houston/Capcom, MSFC/PAYCOM (Payload Operation & Integration Center Communicator), Moscow/GLAVNI (TsUP Capcom), EUROCOM/Munich and JCOM/Tsukuba in the normal fashion via VHF radio from a handheld microphone and any of the USOS ATUs (Audio Terminal Units).     [Purpose of the test is to verify signal reception and link integrity, improve crew proficiency, and ensure minimum required link margin during emergency (no TDRS) and special events (such as a Soyuz relocation).]  Oleg Kotov performed a thorough checkout of the Russian MedOps MO-2 protocol’s Kardiomed equipment and its TLM (telemetry) comm cable connections via BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system, looking for damaged connectors or pins.    [Kardiomed (Cardiomed) uses ECG (Electrocardiograph) and blood pressure measurements, with a five-electrode Holter harness that reads dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads over a span of time and records data on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  For the testing, the BITS2-12 and VD-SU control mode had to be turned off, which also required temporary deactivation of the Elektron O2 generator.]  Afterwards, Oleg supported TsUP in reactivating the Elektron O2 generator by throwing a switch and monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.    [Measurements were taken twice, 3-4 minutes apart, with the temperature probe of the Elektronika MultiMeter.  If BD temperature exceeded 50 degC, Elektron had to be turned off.  The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.]  Later, the CDR performed an external inspection, with documentary photography using the NIKON D2X camera, of the BITS2-12 connections at the BA automatic control unit, BPK1 pump power unit 1 & BPK2 pump power unit 2, behind SM panels 310, 312 & 315.  Kotov, Creamer & Noguchi again had ~60 min set aside for regular crew departure preparations, working on the standard end-of-increment cleanup preparatory to their return.     [It is usual for crewmembers to be granted reduced workdays for making their departure preparations, as their return date approaches.]  Sasha & Oleg continued their cargo transfer operations from MRM1 to the ISS.     [As of this morning, MRM1 unloading was 70% complete.]  On their own discretionary time, the crew is handling a large number of tasks, accumulated for the USOS (US Segment) on the standard “job jar” list, for the RS on the “as time permits” listing.  New items added today for Tracy were –  Help troubleshoot the MEC and TVIS PCMCIA (Portable Computer Memory Card International Adapter) storage cards,Swapping the RHDD (Removable Hard Disk Drive) of the DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization) experiment in ER4 (EXPRESS Rack 4) with a new one, andIdentifying a bolt found free-floating by Tracy on 4/30 during an MSL (Materials Science Laboratory) activity.   The crewmembers completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).  The TVIS runs by FE-1 & FE-3 were observed by ground specialists live via video.  For their T2 exercise sessions, Soichi & TJ donned the Glenn treadmill harness with installed transducer instrumentation, then activated the harness.     [Afterwards, FE-5 & FE-6 downloaded the harness data (including achieved “body weight”) and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).  The harness SDTO uses both TVIS and T2.]  At ~3:55am EDT, Noguchi conducted his regular tagup with the Japanese Flight Control Team at SSIPC (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center)/Tsukuba via S-band/audio.   [This conference is scheduled once every week, between the ISS crewmembers and SSIPC.]  At ~3:10pm, the crew held the (normally weekly) teleconference with ISS Program Management at JSC/Houston via Ku-band/video & S-band/audio.  Deboost Update:   The deboost burn this morning by the small midring thrusters of Progress 37P was nominal.  Burn duration: 9 min 51 sec.   Delta-V: -2.6 ft/sec (-0.8 m/s); mean altitude decrease: -0.8 nm (-1,45 km).  (Earlier predictions:  Delta-V: -2.6ft/s /-0.8 m/s; delta-H: -0.8 nmi/-1.45 km).  Total propellant consumption: 271 lbs.  The purpose of the deboost (altitude reduction) was to set up orbital phasing for a Soyuz 21S backup landing opportunity in Kazakhstan.    [For the deboost maneuver, ISS attitude control authority was handed over to RS MCS (Motion Control System) at 12:45am and returned to USOS momentum management at 3:50am.]  MRM2 MPI Failure:   Yesterday’s C&W (Caution & Warning) testing by Kotov & Kornienko from the MRM2 module established that the MPI (Multifunction Indicator Panel) on Poisk will no longer send commands, i.e., C&W commands cannot be sent from this unit.  If needed, crewmembers will use the closest C&W panel in the SM for issuing commands.  MRM1 Rassvet has the same type of panel installed; initialization of this unit is planned for next week.   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  