
Payloads
Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) Soft Matter Dynamics & Compacted Granulars: The crew exchanged Sample 04 with Sample 01 inside the Soft Matter Dynamics (SMD) Experiment Container in the Lower drawer (CEM Lower) of the FSL. FSL Soft Matter Dynamics – Hydrodynamics of Wet Foams (Foam Coarsening) aims to investigate bubble size and rearrangement dynamics for “wet foams”. Microgravity offers the opportunity to investigate such “wet” foams, which cannot be stabilized on Earth because of drainage. Moreover, microgravity conditions are essential to study rearrangement phenomena, such as coarsening and coalescence, disentangled from drainage.
The ISS Experience: The crew temporarily stowed the Z-camera to the side of the module until SpaceX Demo-2 arrival. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Wireless LAN Demonstration: The crew removed the JEM Infrared (IR) camera, Ethernet extender, and associated hardware from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) on the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table. HTV Wireless LAN Demonstration (HTV WLAN Demo) demonstrates real-time wireless video transfer between the International Space Station (ISS) and a visiting spacecraft. Autonomous docking technology is important for future missions, such as to the Moon and Mars, that will be unable to rely on human operations the same way as current vehicle logistics. Stable and high-rate data transfer is critical to the real-time video monitoring required for docking.
Completed Task List Activities:

Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Bracket Fastener Install

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


JEM Airlock Ground Support
ATS PPL Uplink

