
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) High Definition (HD) Video Drawer Checkout: Following yesterday’s installation of the new HD video drawer and two HD video monitors, the crew continued the upgrade process for the MSG video equipment by completing checkout activities. After the hardware was set up and powered, the video signals were routed using the HD Video Drawer Graphical User Interface (GUI) located as a remote desktop application on the MSG Laptop Computer. The MSG HD video hardware was stowed following completion of the checkout activities.
 
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks were completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation.  This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth’s gravity.
 
Dose Tracker: The crew completed entries for medication tracking. This investigation documents the medication usage of crew members before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The investigation collects information about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM) Vestibule Outfitting: The crew completed Node 3 (N3) Aft vestibule pressurization and leak check, opened the hatch, and completed installation and hardware deployment in N3 Aft BEAM Vestibule for all of the equipment required to support tomorrow’s planned BEAM deployment. Completed tasks were:

Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Control Panel Assembly (CPA) and Center Disc Cover (CDC) removal,
ground strap installation,
deployment of BEAM deployment controller with associated cables except for power cable,
deployment of multimeter with BEAM Resistive Thermal Device (RTD) jumper,
installation of BEAM Vestibule data cable.

BEAM ingress is scheduled for June 2.
 
OA-6 Cargo Transfer Operations: Today the crew completed OA-6 unpack.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

MORZE. Evaluation using SPRUT-2
Calf Volume Measurement / r/g 2338
FINEMOTR  Operator Assistance with the Experiment
Folding ARED Platform
Node 3 Aft Pressurization and Leak Check
RR-HAB BAG Rodent Research Habitat Stowage Bag Retrieval Sample Insertion into bags
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops / r/g 2335
Node 3 Aft Hatch Opening
Rodent Research (RR) Camcorder Setup
FINEMOTR Experiment Ops
Stowage of Rodent Research Habitat Module
Removal and transfer of CBM disk cover
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: Tsentrovka, SENSOR Tests
Removal of Node 3 Nadir CBM Controller Panel Assembly (CPA)
Study of veins in lower extremities / r/g 2337
Rodent Research (RR) Module Stowage
OCT Hardware Setup
СОЖ Maintenance
WRS Sample Collection
BEAM Ground Strap Installation
HABIT Habitability Walk-Through Video
Inspection and Photos of space behind SM panels / r/g 2334
DOSETRK Data Input
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: SUPOS Test
BEAM Vestibule Outfitting Part 1
VIZIR. Experiment Ops with СКПФУ Hardware r/g 2352
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: Cattell’s Test
Health Management System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Subject
Health Management System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), Operator
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: Strelau Test
OCT Hardware Stowage
Rodent Research (RR) Camcorder Setup
BEAM Deployment Dynamic Sensors (DDS) Setup
MORZE. Closeout Ops
Robotic Work Station (RWS) Setup
ARED Footplate Unfold to Nominal Position
Potable Water Collection in SM for In-Flight Chemical and Microbial Analysis
HMS Defibrillator Inspection
MSG Video Recording
Stowage of Rodent Research Habitat Module
TOCA Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
DOSETRK Data Input
JEM Remote Sensor Unit Battery R&R
Rodent Research (RR) Module Stowage
HABIT Preparing for the experiment
PK4 HD Data Download
Life On The Station Photo and Video / r/g 2000
PK4- Preparation for Data Download
Water Processing using MCD
Inspection and Cleaning of Laptops RS2, RS3
СТТС comm system switchover to the primary set
On MCC Go Inspection and Cleaning of RS1 Laptop
Inspection and Photos of space behind SM panels / r/g 2334
AUT Sample Retrieval from MELFI
AUT R2 Sample fixative application
TOCA Data Recording
MSG Video Recording
Countermeasures System (CMS) Sprint Exercise, Optional
IMS Delta File Prep
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops / r/g 2349
MORZE. Experiment setup / r/g 2348
MSG  Hardware Deactivation
USOS High Definition (HD) Video setup for PAO
Crew Prep for PAO/ r/g 2356
TV Greetings to the Participants of Pressa-2016 Festival r/g 2356

 
Completed Task List Items

WHC KTO R&R

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

BEAM activities
SPDM OTCM checkout
Nominal ground commanding

 
