
Payloads:
CBEF-L (Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L): Today, Crew verified the cable connections and sensors for the 1G Centrifuge in preparation of future operations. CBEF-L is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Celestial Immunity: The crew retrieved Vented Bags containing a 24-Well Plate, pulled samples from the 24-Well Plate, and trashed the 24-Well Plate. Dissecting the Influence of Gravity on Human Immune Function in Adults and the Elderly (Celestial Immunity) builds on earlier studies to evaluate how gravity affects functional immune response, from innate mechanisms of defense to adaptive responses. It uses peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from both elderly and younger adult donors to facilitate the study of possible age-associated effects. The investigation could uncover novel immune pathways useful for the development of new vaccines and drugs to prevent and treat existing and emerging human diseases.
DFM (Dendrite Fragmentation and Morphology during Melting and Solidification): Today, Crew removed SUBSA Ampoule from the SUBSA Thermal Chamber and installed a new SUBSA Science Ampoule. When a metal solidifies during casting or additive manufacturing, it forms a multitude of tiny crystals called dendrites. The dendrite shape, and whether the dendrites fragment, determines the strength of the resulting solid metal. However, since gravity affects the growth and fragmentation process, it is unclear how those dendrites grow during freezing. The Dendrite Fragmentation and Morphology During Melting and Solidification (DFM) investigation, conducted in the Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA) facility, uses microgravity to examine the effects of cooling and heating rate on the shape of these crystals.
Exploration ECLSS-TOILET: Crewmembers assembled the new Toilet ORUs onto the Mounting Adapter creating the Toilet assembly by connecting the power/data cables between Toilet components and installing the air filter and Pretreat Tank. The crew was unable to activate the toilet but will attempt to activate it on Tuesday morning. The Toilet System is an Exploration Tech Demo that has evolved into a permanent USOS system.  The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS).  The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for USOS for up to 90-crew-days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent WHC/Toilet operations.
ISS HAM: A crewmember initiated a contact with Ecole Elémentaire de Saint Leu Centre, Saint Leu, France, (Reunion Island). ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
RTPCG-2 (Real-Time Protein Crystal Growth-2): The crew loaded protein crystallography plate S/N C1, Row A with protein solutions, mixed with custom salt solutions, sealed and transferred the sample to incubation. Phase II Real-time Protein Crystal Growth on Board the International Space Station (RTPCG-2) demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity can sometimes produce high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 tests high-quality proteins crystals for detailed analysis back on Earth.
Systems:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Crank Handle Replaced – Over the weekend, crew completed the ARED Crank Handle R&R. The old handle had been experiencing slipping due to a worn ratchet. Upon installation of the new handle, crew got 2 nominal uses in before the handle hit a hard stop and got stuck, allowing it to slip 1 ratchet. This is a different behavior from the old handle. Crew was able to free the handle and took imagery. ARED remains GO for use.
Russian and US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Gathers: Today, Crew gathered both Russian and US EVA Tools in preparation for the upcoming RS EVA #48 on June 2nd, as well as the upcoming USOS IROSA EVAs on June 16th and June 20th.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) EMU Kit Audit: Crew performed an audit of the contents of the EMU Servicing Kit and the EMU ORU Tool Kit. Results of the audit will help ground to determine what replenishment is necessary for future EVAs.
Atmospheric Control System (ACS) Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Nitrogen Transfer Initiation and termination: Today, Crew setup and initiated a N2 Gas Transfer from NORS tanks. The goal of this task is to transfer nitrogen from the Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) N2 Recharge Tank to the ISS Airlock nitrogen tanks via equalization.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Atmosphere Revitalization System Thermal Amine Scrubber Cycle Adjustment
PRO Glacier 2 Activation Commanding
Payload Rack Officer Fluids Integrated Rack Activation Commanding

