
Payloads
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): The crew replaced Nitrogen/Oxygen manifold bottles in support of the continuing s-Flames investigation. The ACME experiment series being performed in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) includes five independent studies of gaseous flames. The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth.  Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Hourglass: The crew swapped out the SD data card from PL Control Box S/N 002 to allow ground teams to continue data downlink. Hourglass investigation examines the relationship between gravity and the behavior of granular materials such as regolith that covers the surface of planets and planetary-like bodies. Researchers observe various granular materials inside an hourglass and a measuring cylinder under different gravity conditions. Better understanding of the behavior of these materials supports the design of spacecraft for future missions landing on the surfaces of planets and other celestial bodies.
Multi-use Variable-g Platform (MVP): The crew replaced the hard drive inside the Multi-use Variable-g Platform 1 in preparation of Cell-03 operations. The commercially developed, owned and operated Techshot MVP includes 2 internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity. MVP is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others.
Systems 
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)9 Cargo Operations: Today, the crew began HTV9 cargo transfer operations by unloading cargo from the HTV corridor.  The vehicle delivered four tons of supplies, parts, and experiment hardware.
HTV Rendezvous Hardware Tool Cleanup: As part of closeout ops from HTV9 capture/berthing, the crew returned the Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) and Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK) today to their appropriate stowage locations. The CBCS supports Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) mating alignment operations necessary to berth a vehicle to Node 2. The VOK is a toolkit the crew uses during berthing operations.
Completed Task List Activities:

Vacuum Cleaner Set Up
PCS Laptop Relocate (Post HTV)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


CIR Ops Ground Support

