
Fluid Shifts Baseline Imagery Collection:  Kornienko performed his Flight Day 45 baseline imaging for the Fluid Shifts experiment.  With Padalka as the onboard imager and ground remote guidance, ultrasound imaging was taken of arterial and venous measures of the head and neck, cardiac, ophthalmic and portal vein, and tissue thickness of lower and upper body.  Additional measurements using the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), ESA’s Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Device, and Intraocular Pressure (IOP) using the tonometer were taken as well.  The imagery session was within the 10 day requirement following last week’s dilution measurements.  Next week, both Kelly and Kornienko will be performing the same measurements in the Service Module using the Lower Body Negative Pressure (Chibis) device.  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Columbus (COL) Water On-Off Valve (WOOV)6 Removal and Replacement (R&R):  Cristoforetti replaced the COL InterFace Heat Exchanger (IFHX) WOOV6. Express Rack 3 was tilted down in order to perform the R&R.  Inspection of WOOV6 in April 2013, during WOOV7 replacement, revealed minor corrosion/contamination signs but no operational failures. In August 2014, WOOV6 failed to reach end position during valve cycling but was successfully recovered by direct commanding attempts from COL-CC. Since then the valve has been left in the operational open position.  If WOOV6 were to get stuck in the open position, IFHX Low Temperature Loop (LTL) water side hydraulic isolation would not be possible in the event of a water leak. 
Tonometer Troubleshooting:  Kelly with ground assistance performed troubleshooting of the tonometer following the intermittent readings from the tonometer during his Fluid Shifts session yesterday.  Kelly used the tonometer and the eye tonometry simulator to reattempt data collection.  Images of the hardware were sent down for ground teams to evaluate prior to the Fluid Shifts Tonometry session for Kornienko later in the day.
Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Post Relocation Outfitting:  Kelly installed an Intermodular Ventilation (IMV) Valve on the Node 3 Forward Port Bulkhead to provide PMM with return ventilation.  In addition, Kelly and Virts installed new PMM location-code based labels for Fire Ports, Standoffs and Racks to match the ISS coordinate system with PMM at Node 3 Forward. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


FS – Hardware Setup
Fluid Shifts – Donning Holter Arterial BP – Subject
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference (S-band)
IMS Tagup (S-band)
Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF) Cable Connection
JEM – CGSE Gas Supply Stop
Installation of inserts for easy opening of SM interior panel locks (panel 429). Structural Elements Kit  (004890R, ФГБ1ПГО_4_427_1, CTB No.1112 (004106J))
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Installation of inserts for easy opening of SM interior panel locks (panel 433). (Kit with structural elements (004890R, ФГБ1ПГО_4_427_1, CTB No.1112 (004106J))
Inspection of Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) and Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE)
Node3 IMV Valve Installation
Fluid Shifts – Baseline Scan – Subject
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Fluid Shifts – Scan Operator
RGN – Initiate drain into EDV
Removal of Force Loader [НС-1М] Control Unit.
SCOF – Cable Reconfiguration
RGN – Terminate water drain into EDV
Payload CTB Audit
ИК0501 Gas Analyzer О2 readings adjustments. Uout =2.8 V.
LBNP Exercise (PRELIMINARY).
PAO Hardware Setup
Cleaning ВД1 and ВД2 Air Ducts in DC1 WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Crew Prep for PAO
PAO Event
VCA1 setup and adjustment in Columbus
Express Rack 3 Preparation and Tilt Down
Columbus WOOV6 (Water ON OFF Valve) Replacement
RGN REC-TNK – Remove depress hose for nominal operations
USND2 – Hardware Deactivation
Inspecting RS Structural Elements Shell Surfaces using МВП-2К device.
PMM Relabel
Soyuz 716 Kazbek Fit Check
Preparing for downlink RS shell structural element surface inspection data
OTKLIK. Hardware Check
Installation of inserts for easy opening of SM interior panel locks (panel 430). Structural Elements Kit (004890R, ФГБ1ПГО_4_427_1, CTB No.1112 (004106J))
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Fluid Shifts – Tonometer Exam
IMS Delta File Prep
MPCC Laptop deactivation and deinstallation
PK4 – Familiarization. Conference with Investigator (as necessary) / See OSTPV for Procedure
Express Rack 3 Tilt Up
Flight Director / ISS Crew Tagup
Crew conference with Astronaut Office  [Aborted]

Completed Task List Items

Journal-Aud-Entry-CDR

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted


JEMRMS Operations

