
JAXA Mouse Mission: The crew prepared the spare transportation cage for Mouse mission operations. The purpose of this mission is to analyze any alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term space environment. 
Bio-Monitor: A crewmember doffed and stowed the Bio-Monitor garment and headband and donned the spare set. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way. The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, ECG (Electrocardiogram), skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc.
CASIS PCG 14 (Wisconsin Crystal Growing Contest-Wisconsin Space Crystals): The crew disassembled the two PCG-14 sample jars to photograph developing crystal growth on the membrane interface. Previous investigations have shown that crystals grow larger and with fewer imperfections in microgravity. The CASIS PCG 14 investigation has two goals: to explore closed-system crystallization of inorganic salts from aqueous solutions using evaporation facilitated by a desiccant, and to examine how well a previously optimized thermal-gradient inorganic salt crystallization procedure translates to other systems. Middle and high school students compete to grow the most perfect ground-based crystals, as judged by experts in crystallography, and those with the fewest imperfections then fly their experiments aboard the space station.
Water Storage System (WSS) Cable Routing: Today the crew routed power and data cables between the LAB1D1 to LAB1D4 locations completing the second, and final, day of WSS cable installation activities. Once installed, the WSS will add new capabilities to the existing Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Water Recovery and Management System (WRM) by providing additional iodinated water storage, approximately 75 liters, and new methods of transporting water in the potable water bus. 
MSS Application Computer Unit (MACU) Power Cable Install: In order to provide new capabilities to the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Robotics Workstation (RWS), the crew installed a new power cable today at the LAB1P5 rack. This cable, which re-routes power supplied by LAP51A4A_A RPC 01, supports the conversion of the AVU-1 (Artificial Vision Unit) to the new MACU-1 (MSS Application Computer Unit). While the crew was working in this area, they also removed unused Ultrasound Background Noise Test (UBNT) hardware from behind the RWS for disposal.
SpaceX-17 Cargo Operations: After today’s operations, the crew has completed approximately 50 hours of cargo loading with 19 hours remaining to be completed. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and performed Latching End Effector (LEE) Checkouts and SSRMS Joint Diagnostics on both Strings in preparation for Space-X 17 unberth on June 3.  Additionally, controllers powered up the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and are currently performing SPDM Direct Drive Tests of both SPDM Arms. Assuming all of today’s tests are satisfactory, controllers will end today’s operations by grappling the SpX-17 Dragon vehicle.  
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Live Event: Nick Hague and Christina Koch participated in a live PAO event with the Washington Post which will be used in an Apollo 11 anniversary special section to be published in the Washington Post in the next few weeks. Using interviews from 50 astronauts, their goal is to provide readers with a sense of what being in space is really like.
Completed Task List Activities:

RFID Troubleshooting [Completed GMT 147]
Story Time [Completed GMT 147]
ARED tether replace [Completed GMT 147]

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


MT translate/Dragon grapple
WSS cable routing support 

Look Ahead:
Wednesday, 05/29 (GMT 149)
Payloads:


BioMonitor Wearable doff and stow (CSA)
Vascular Echo Historical video performing the R-30 Blood collection (CSA)
PhotoBioreactor S/w install (ESA)
MOUSE Transporter install and water maintenance (JAXA)
MVP Cell-01 removal and POLAR insert (NASA)
MicroAlgae bag redistribution (NASA)
FURPHY Spin ops (NASA)
Lighting Effects Visual Test (NASA)
SODI Flask Disk prep for return (ESA)

Systems:

RoBOT proficiency training
WSS assembly 

Thursday, 05/30 (GMT 150)
Payloads:


BioMonitor Stow and Conference (CSA)
Nanoparticle camera ops (NASA)
Veggie 4A Profile of Mood States(POMS) questionnaire (NASA)
MicroAlgae bag redistribution (NASA)
Life Science Glovebox work volume deploy (NASA)

Systems:

Max CEVIS portable PFS setup

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


TOCA Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
Furphy SD Card Install into PL NAS
JAXA Mouse Mission Item Gathering
Drink Bag Fill and Installation in Orlan-MKS Spacesuit (if required)
Inter Module Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement for JPM Module
Updated EVA Timeline Review
XF305 Camcorder Setup
JAXA Mouse Mission Transportation Cage Unit Preparation
Installation of the MACU Power Cable at the LAB1P5 Rack
Dragon Cargo Transfer Operations
At Home In Space Questionnaire Verision 2 Subject
TOCA Sample Data Record
ISS Experience Solid State Drive Changeout
Vacuum Cleaning of the Screens of Pressure Equalization Valve and KСД Depress Valve Prior to the EVA
PCG-14 Maintenance Work Area Preparation
Preparation of Fuel Oxidizer Reaction Products (ПНСТ) Protective Equipment
Jar Sample Disassembly
Interest Photos and Recorded Video for Downlink
Bio-Monitor Wearables Change Out
Furphy Procedure Review
Installation of the MACU Power Cable at the LAB1P5 Rack
Pille Data Download
ISS Experience Hardware Stow
SM Central Post REMOTE RS LAPTOP Setup and Testing
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config JEM Setup
Nanoparticle Formulation MERLIN Sample Removal
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
Pille Data Downlink and Pille Deployment Prior to the EVA
Dragon Cargo Transfer Operations
Nanoparticle Crew Procedure Review
Water Storage System (WSS) Ku-Band Pwr Cable Routing
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Russian Audio Interface Unit (RAIU) Cable Routing
Nanoparticle Formulation Sample Mixing and Image Setup
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
MICRO ALGAE Redistribution Ops
Bio-Monitor Wearables Stow
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Rope Replace
Water Storage System (WSS) Power Cable Route Assistance
Weekly Monitoring of ISS RS Video Hardware Functionality
WHC Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace
Video Equipment (1 Camcorder) Teardown in DC1 for the duration of RS EVA. Report temp stow location to MCC
CSA Generic Frozen Blood Collection Setup
ARED Cable Arm Rope Tension Check

 