
Ocular Health (OH): Virts and Cristoforetti completed their Return (R)-30 OH today.  They each performed ultrasounds of their eye with the assistance of the other crewmember acting as a Crew Medical Officer (CMO).  Virts, again with Cristoforetti as his CMO, performed an ultrasound echocardiogram. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Biolab Microcassette Review: Cristoforetti removed the distribution and cleaning (D&C) cassette from the Biolab Microscope.  She then removed all syringes from the Biolab Automatic Ambient Stowage (AAS) Standard Insert and then installed it into the AAS compartment.  The Microcassette, containing data from the TripleLux-A experiment, will be returned on 41 Soyuz for ground specialists to analyze the data.  Triplelux-A uses a rat macrophage cell line to investigate and compare the ability of macrophages to kill pathogens under normal gravity and microgravity conditions.  The goal is to gain a better understanding of immune suppression in spaceflight.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub:  Kelly configured EMU Suits 3005 and 3010 for today’s loop scrubbing activity. He then initiated the ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and conducted biocidal maintenance (iodination) on EMU 3005 and Airlock cooling water loops. An issue was detected with cooling on EMU 3010, therefore scrubbing was not performed on that suit.  Water samples were obtained after the loop scrub activity to determine the effectiveness of the filtering.  A portion of this water sample will used for a conductivity test and the remaining water will be sent to the ground for chemical analysis. Ground Teams are investigating the cooling issue with EMU 3010. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator (SSRMS) off Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) onto the Lab PDGF. After completing the walk off, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to Node3 Forward survey start position and reconfigured both arms of Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) in preparation of Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) relocation next Wednesday. MSS performance today was nominal.
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Slow Fill Troubleshooting – Over the past few weeks, it has taken significantly longer than expected to transfer pretreated urine from an EDV to the WSTA.  Today the crew performed troubleshooting steps to attempt to correct the issue.  They first transferred pretreated urine using the Russian compressor to determine if the pressure supply is the cause of the slow transfer.  This had no effect on the transfer rate.  They then back-flowed pretreated urine from the WSTA into an EDV to attempt to clear any air bubbles or blockage that could be restricting flow through the filter of the EDV transfer hose.  A subsequent WSTA fill initially showed improvement for the first 5-10% of the fill but then returned to the prior slow fill rate.  Ground teams will continue to troubleshoot the issues. 
International Docking Adapter (IDA)1 Control Panel Checkout:  Virts performed a checkout of the IDA1 Control Panel.  The IDA1 Control panel was installed earlier in the increment and will be used during the IDA1 install EVA, currently planned later this year.  
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Biochemical Urine Test
URISYS Hardware Stowage
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference
ECLSS Recycle Tank Remove and Replace
Fine Motor Skills – Experiment Ops
CORRECTSIA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake
Replacing РТ-50-1М No.10 (А210) device with the new unit No.П3001010. Take pictures before and after replacement of device behind panel 129. (Dispose of the old No.93030030 (001839R) unit via Progress 425. Update the IMS).
OTKLIK. Hardware Check
Preparing for Photography of SM and DC1 Window Glass (Procedure and r/g review)
Audit of Water Supply Equipment [СBО] in ПрК and FGB
Ultrasound 2 Scan
Photography of SM window 01,12 and DC1 EV2 glass and photo downlink
Ultrasound 2 Data Export
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
EMU cooling loop scrub.
HMS. Ultrasound 2 – Post-Scanning Ops
Biolab – Hardware Ops
PROBOY. RSЕ1 Laptop Ops. Tagup with specialists
PROBOY. Penetration Simulator Ops. Tagup with specialists
CARDIAC Ops
Demating РТ-50-1М TLM Connectors from БКС
РТ-50-1М No.10 (А210) R&R. Tagup with specialists
HMS. CARDIAC Ops, Operator
EVA. Retrieval of EVA water sample adapter
Partial drain of the UPA WSTA into EDV 960 to troubleshoot the WSTA slow fills
Setup of N2 camcorder to downlink view of IDA Control Panel lights for ground assessment
Node 2 Forward IDA Control Panel checkout prior to usage of ICP during IDA1 EVA Installation
Biolab – Hardware Ops
IMS Tagup (S-band)
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
EMU cooling loop scrub
Ultrasound 2 Power Down
PAO hardware setup
PAO Event During A Year Long Mission 
ESA Weekly Crew Conference
РТ-50-1М No.10 (А210) R&R. Tagup with specialists
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
CORRECTSIA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake
PROBOY. Copy and Downlink Data
Audit of Water Supply Equipment [СBО] in ПрК and FGB
Biolab – Equipment setup for the experiment
SLT Laptop Hard Drive Swap
CMS – ARED Quarterly Maintenance
VIZIR. Experiment Ops
EMU – Cooling Loop Maintenance –  EMU Reconfig
RGN REC-TNK – Removal of depress hose for nominal operations
On MCC Go Mating РТ-50-1М TLM Connectors to БКС
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Food Frequency Questionnaire
EMU – Long Dryout
РТ-50-1М No.10 (А210) R&R – Closeout Ops. Take pictures after replacement of device behind panel 129. (Dispose of the old No.93030030 (001839R) unit via Progress 425. Update the IMS). Tagup with specialists
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
IDENTIFIKATSIYA. Copy ИМУ-Ц micro-accelerometer data to laptop
RGN – Initiate drain into EDV
EMU cooling loop scrub.
Biolab – Tool Stowage
EHS – IV-TEPC Transfer
IMS tagup
WRM – Water Consumption Balance, place holder
Russian Hardware Restow
СОЖ Maintenance
VZAIMODEISTVIYE-2. Experiment Ops
Flight Director
CORRECTSIA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake
Preparation of reports for Roscosmos site
ECON-M. Observations and Photography

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


UHF activation/deactivation in support of EMU Loop Scrub
Node 2 Forward IDA Control Panel Checkout
SSRMS Walkoff from Node 2 to Lab PDGF

