
Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Relocation:  In support of today’s PMM relocation, the crew has powered up the Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) on the Node 3 Forward hatch and performed the Node 1 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) bolt loosening and removal.  Robotic Flight Controllers then unberthed PMM from Node 1 nadir at 05:00 am CDT and are currently maneuvering PMM over to Node 3 Forward for installation.  Once PMM is installed, the crew pressurized and verified integrity of the Node 3 to PMM vestibule, opened the Node 3 hatch, partially removed the Center Disk Cover, and installed power and data jumpers. PMM hatch opening is scheduled for Thursday morning at ~7:45 am CDT.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Rope Replace:  As part of routine maintenance, Virts has replaced both ARED cable arm ropes.
Dynamic Surf-3: Cristoforetti is currently continuing with the Dynamic Surf-3 configuration in the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) housed within the Ryutai rack in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM).  She is verifying the internal camera configuration and settings, and will install the Infrared (IR) Data Imager and Buffer then will install the Dynamic Surf-3 (MD30) core that she configured on Monday.  Later today, Virts will remove the Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF) payload bus cable and will connect the FPEF payload bus cable and Image Processing Unit (IPU) video cables.  Ground controllers will perform checkouts of the Dynamic Surf-3 payload.  The Dynamic Surf investigation is part of a series of JAXA experiments that Marangoni convection driven by the presence of surface tension gradient as produced by a temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface. Fluid convection observations of a silicone oil liquid bridge that is generated by heating the one disc higher than the other within the FPEF. By observing and understanding how such fluids move researchers can learn about how heat is transferred in microgravity, and ultimately drive the design and development of more efficient fluid flow based systems and devices.  The objective of scientific research on Marangoni convection utilizing microgravity is to make clear the flow transition phenomena from steady to oscillatory, chaotic, and finally turbulent flows. Therefore, it is important to understand an underlying principal of Marangoni convection. The findings and knowledge obtained through the space experiment is applied to industrial processes, as well as fluid physics.
Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) Analyzer Setup and Checkout: Kelly setup the CCFP connecting the hardware to a Human Research Facility (HRF) laptop and then will then perform a checkout and downlink the data for ground teams to evaluate prior to baseline data collections scheduled next week.  The CCFP is one of the multiple pieces of hardware required for the Fluid Shifts experiment.  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage. 
Exposed Experiment Handhold Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) Checkout: JAXA robotic ground controllers are performing Day 1 of 3 of the checkout of Fiducial Marker, one of the payloads on the Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP) that was installed this week.  Controllers are utilizing the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) and Small Fine Arm (SFA).  Tonight’s activities include obtaining proximity image evaluations at 30 cm from the target, and range interaction evaluations at 40 cm and 50 cm.  The ExHAM was deployed through the Airlock via Slide Table, and attached on a Handhold by JEMRMS utilizing the SFA. Array Mark is exposed for a certain period of time in space environment. Images of the sample are taken by the SFA camera, to demonstrate the SFA operation with Array Mark and to evaluate its aged deterioration. After the designated duration of exposure time, ExHAM is detached from the Handhold and taken into the JEM Airlock and returned for analysis.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.


Self-Reaction Test. Reaction Time Test (morning)
CORRECTSIA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake
On-orbit Hearing Assessment using EARQ
PROBOY. RSЕ1 Laptop Ops.
PROBOY. Penetration Simulator Ops
Node1/PMM vestibule depress, Leak check (Part 2)
Powerup of Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS)
ARED Rope Replacement
Node1 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Demate
Inspecting RS Structural Elements Hull Surfaces using МВП-2К device.
HXP – Photography
Node1/PMM Vestibule Depress, Leak Check (Part 2)
Periodic fitness evaluation – subject
XF305 – Camcorder Setup
FPEF – Hardware Setup
PROBOY. Copy and Downlink Data
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (start) 
COSMOCARD. Preparation Ops. Starting 24-hr ECG Recording
VIRTUAL. Experiment Ops.
Node 1 Stowage Reconfiguration
ISS HAM Radio Power Down
Camcorder Setup
Node 3 Forward CBM Premate Status Verification
Node 3/PMM Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Capture
Inspection of RS Structural Elements Shell Surfaces using МВП-2К device.
CORRECTSIA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake
СОЖ Maintenance
PMM Vestibule Outfitting
Purging Elektron-VM Liquid Unit (БЖ) after Shutdown
Node 1 Stowage Reconfiguration
PMM Vestibule Pressurization
Node 3 Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Removal
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops
XF305 Camcorder Deactivation
FS – Hardware Installation
MOTOCARD. Assistance with the Experiment
Inspecting RS Structural Elements Shell Surfaces using МВП-2К device.
FS – Hardware Checkout
Node3 Hatch Opening, PMM Vestibule Outfitting
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Download data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (end) and start archiving.
Prepare to downlink RS shell structural element surface inspection data
JPM Window Shutter Closure
FPEF Cable Connection
Video Footage of Greetings
FS – Hardware Installation
Node 1 Stowage Reconfiguration
Answers to the Questions from Argumenty I Fakty Newspaper
MORZE. Experiment setup
CORRECTSIA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake
Self-Reaction Test. Reaction Time Test (evening)

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.


PMM relocation related commanding

