
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) #12 Cubesat Deploys:  The remaining 8 of 17 NRCSD #12 CubeSats were successfully deployed from the ISS today. All are a subset of the QB50 constellation of CubeSats provided by countries from around the world. The constellation studies the upper reaches of the Earth’s atmosphere over a period of 1 to 2 years. The QB50 satellites conduct coordinated measurements of the thermosphere, a poorly studied and previously inaccessible zone of the atmosphere. The project monitors different gaseous molecules and electrical properties of the thermosphere to better understand space weather and its long term trends.
NanoRacks Module-55:  The crew swapped samples in the NanoRacks Module 55 which is mounted on the front of NanoRacks Platform-1 in the JEM. This investigation researches why bacteria are more virulent and grow more rapidly in space.  NanoRacks Module 55, also known as NanoRacks – National Design Challenge – Centaurus High School – The Effects of Simulated Gravity on Bacterial Lag Phase in a Microgravity Environment (NanoRacks-NDC-CHS-Bacterial Lag Phase), studies the bacterial lag phase, a delay period before the start of exponential growth, which is much shorter in microgravity than it is on Earth. The experiment uses a centrifuge to simulate gravity, comparing microgravity and simulated-gravity Escherichia coli (E. coli) cultures to determine whether microgravity itself causes changes in bacterial growth. 
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew replaced the ELF Ultraviolet Lamp bulb and set up the ELF gas supply hose and gas bottle. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. 
Soyuz 49 (49S) Nominal Descent Drill: The 49S Crew performed a nominal Soyuz Descent Drill in preparation for their return to earth next week.  Soyuz undock is scheduled for June 2, 2017 at 5:48 AM CDT with landing occurring at 9:10 AM CDT. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Suit Maintenance: The crew completed routine maintenance on EMUs 3006 and 3008 including a loop scrub, iodination and a post-loop scrub water sample.  Following these activities, EMUs 3006 and 3008 were removed and stowed in the Crewlock and EMUs 3003 and 3010 were installed onto the Equipment Lock EMU Don/Doff Assembly. 
On-Board Training (OBT)/Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS in the Hot Backup Configuration and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into position over the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) for the start of the SpX-11 Offset Grapples Practice session. Crew members Whitson and Fisher then practiced maneuvering the SSRMS into the grapple envelope of the PMM FRGF. They performed this several times, then performed a final run during which Controllers safed the SSRMS to simulate a failure. The crew recovered by switching from the Cupola Robotic Workstation (RWS) to the Lab RWS and backing the SSRMS away. Following the training session, Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to the SpX-11 rendezvous park position. 
Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) N21B4A_B Trip Status: RPC 2 on RPCM N21B4A_B tripped Thursday night. This RPC powers the Node 2 Audio Terminal Unit (ATU) 1_ Starboard.  Node 2 ATU-2_Port is still available for caution and warning tones and audio functionality and is connected (via patch panel) to the starboard Crew Quarters.  Review of the 50Hz data did not show any indication of an overcurrent. Ground controllers were able to execute the FET Controller Hybrid (FCH) troubleshooting in an attempt to recover the RPC. The first re-closure attempt was unsuccessful indicating a FCH failure. Approximately an hour after the troubleshooting was attempted, the RPC closed and then re-opened 40 seconds later. Teams believe that this is a new failure signature of the FCH issue and are working a re-closure attempt today. Ground teams will review this new FCH failure signature. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

HRF Generic Urine Collection
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Activation
Soyuz 733 crew Sokol leak check without donning ПКО or Kentavr
Glacier Sample Remove
NanoRacks Module-55 Gear-Sample Swap
Progress 435 (DC1) transfers prior to [АСН-К] Navigation Module removal prior to [АСН-К] navigation module removal
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Conclude Stow
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Setup
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployment Photos
Robotics Onboard Training (ROBoT) Session for Dragon
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
Drying Sokol spacesuits, setup suit 1 for drying
Soyuz descent training
Soyuz 733 Descent OBT
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) pressure gauge check and Valve Operation part 1
HRF Generic Urine Collection Female – Subject
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval Insertion Operations
Long Duration Sorbent Testbed Status Check.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub Initiation
Manufacturing Device Print Clean
LBNP Training (PRELIMINARY)
Transfer of Atmosphere Purification Filter Assembly АФОТ-2М from Soyuz 733 БО to Soyuz 735 БО
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) pressure gauge check and Valve Operation part 2
Transfer of Atmosphere Purification Filter Assembly АФОТ-2М from Soyuz 733 БО to Soyuz 735 БО
Terminate Space Suit 1 Drying
Habitability Walk-through Video – Subject
Terminate Space Suit 1 Drying
Setup Space Suit 2 for drying
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployment Photos
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Post Scrub Cooling Loop Water (H2O) Sample
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Iodination
HRF Generic Urine Collection Female – Subject
Conference with specialists regarding the Separation Unit [УС]
Water Resource Management Condensate Tank Offload Initialization
Removal of [АСН-К] Navigation Module from Progress 435
Soyuz 733 Transfer Ops
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
Water Resource Management Condensate Tank Offload Termination
N2 Nadir Hatch to Unlatch Hard stop
BEAM Intermodule Ventilation Coupling Verification
Progress 435 stowage ops after [АСН-К] Navigation Module removal
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Offset Grapple
European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Gas Valve Close
Terminate Space Suit 2 Drying
Setup of 1st pair of gloves for drying
Crew Departure Prep
Terminate the 1st pair of gloves drying and start drying the 2nd pair
Crew Departure Prep
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfiguration
Evening Preparation Work
Terminate drying the second pair of gloves
Stowage of suits and gloves after drying
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap
Onboard Training (OBT) SSRMS Debrief Conference
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
HRF Generic Urine Collection
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval Insertion Operations
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Separator Plumbing Assembly (SPA) Teardown
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Deactivation

Completed Task List Items

VEG03 plant water/photo
ARED quarterly maintenance
49S pre-pack

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Offset grapple training support

