
Payloads:
A-HoSS (Artemis HERA on Space Station): The crew powered on the Adlink Mini PC for Artemis HERA (Hybrid Electronic Radiation Assessor on Space Station) radiation data gathering. Artemis HERA on Space Station (A-HoSS) demonstrates software to refine data analysis and operational products for future exploration missions. It modifies the Hybrid Electronic Radiation Assessor (HERA), built to operate as the primary radiation detection system for Orion and certified for flight on Artemis 2, to operate on the space station. The investigation provides an opportunity to evaluate this hardware in the space radiation environment prior to the Artemis 2 flight.
DFM (Dendrite Fragmentation and Morphology during Melting and Solidification): A crewmember removed SUBSA Ampoule from the SUBSA Thermal Chamber and install a new SUBSA Science Ampoule. When a metal solidifies during casting or additive manufacturing, it forms a multitude of tiny crystals called dendrites. The dendrite shape and whether the dendrites fragment determines the strength of the resulting solid metal. However, since gravity affects the growth and fragmentation process, it is unclear how those dendrites grow during freezing. The Dendrite Fragmentation and Morphology during Melting and Solidification (DFM) investigation, conducted in the Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA) facility, uses microgravity to examine the effects of cooling and heating rate on the shape of these crystals.
Kidney Cells-02: The crew swapped the SABL 1 CO2 Controller Installation and rotated the CO2 controller in SABL 3 in preparation for Kidney Cells-02 operations. Effects of Microgravity on the Structure and Function of Proximal and Distal Tubule MPS (Kidney Cells-02) uses a 3D kidney cell model or chip to study the effects of microgravity on formation of microcrystals in kidney tubules. In microgravity, these microcrystals are expected to remain evenly suspended, allowing better observation of their effects. Astronauts living in microgravity can experience dehydration, stasis, and bone demineralization, all frequent contributors to kidney stones. Results could support design of better treatments for conditions such as kidney stones and osteoporosis for astronauts and people on Earth.
Myotones: A subject and operator performed the skin marking and Myotones Device measurements. The Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones) investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g. muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth, as well as for future space missions.
Plant Water Management: The crew conducted day 2 of Cell-2 Wedge Test and Article operations. The Plant Water Management investigation demonstrates passive measures for controlling fluid delivery and uptake in plant growth systems. Reduced gravity creates challenges in providing adequate fluid and nutrition for plant growth. This investigation examines using other physical properties such as surface tension, wetting and system geometry to replace the role of gravity.
Systems:
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #48 Preparations: The crew installed a High Definition EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) and Lithium-Ion EVA Helmet Interchangeable Portable Light (EHIP) Power Adapters (LEPA) onto the Russian Orlan EVA suit. This was done in preparation for the RS EVA #48 which is currently scheduled for Wednesday, June 2.
Atmospheric Control System (ACS) Resupply Air tank venting Initiation and termination: Today, Crew setup and vented a resupply air tank. The goal of this task is to release air into the ISS to maintain a nominal cabin pressure onboard the station.
NG-15 Cargo Operations: Today, the crew performed NG-15 cargo transfer operations and will continue to work on NG-15 cargo operations throughout the week.
Completed Task List Activities:

Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PRO MSRR Deactivation Commanding
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Maneuver
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Robotics Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) Stow
POA Snare Cable Test Survey
Mobile Remote Servicer (MRS) Base System (MBS) Payload ORU Accommodation (POA) Latching End Effector (LEE) Checkout

