05-26-2011May 26, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/26/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   FD11 (Flight Day 11) of STS-134/Endeavour/ULF-6. Onboard crew complement: 9.  ISS crew sleep schedule:  Wake – 7:56pm last night; Sleep – 11:26am (till 7:56pm) today.  Shuttle sleep schedule:  Wake – 7:56pm last night; Sleep – 11:56am (till 7:56pm) today. At wake-up, FE-3 Ron Garan undertook another session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, his 12th.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.] Other activities completed by Ron Garan included –Recharging two NIKON D2Xs camera batteries for the next spacewalk, EVA-4, for at least 3 hrs,Terminating the LIB (Lithium-Ion Battery) recharge in the A/L (Airlock),Servicing the new CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units that arrived with ULF6, including zero-calibrating those combustible products sensors which exhibited signs of sensor contamination,Performing the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes, [the current card (27-0041H) lists 113 CWCs (2,169.7 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (10 CWCs with 392.0 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 87.0 L in 3 bags containing Wautersia bacteria and 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use;  2. Silver potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (91 CWCs with 1,668.3 L for reserve (also 14 expired bags with 251.5 L);  4. condensate water (76.6 L in 5 bags, plus 5 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (32.8 L in 2 CWCs from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health],Double-bagging two leaking CWCs (#2034, #2047) in Russian wet trash bags (to protect from a single-fault leakage failure) and stowing them in the ATV2,Equipping one of the EVA D2Xs cameras with a 10.5mm lens, the other with a 28mm lens,Servicing the FCF (Fluids Combustion Facility) in the FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack) by changing out the Bio sample on the Bio Base   [After configuring the US Lab camcorder to cover activities for POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center/Huntsville), Garan opened the lower & upper FCF doors, rotated the LMM SBA (Light Microscopy Module / Spindle Bracket Assembly) from Operate position to Service position, removed the used sample from the Bio Base, returned it to the Bio kit and installed a new sample from Slot 3 in the kit onto the Base.  He then rotated the LMM SBA back to Operate position and closed the rack doors then turned on two switches and notified POIC that FIR was prepared for ground-commanding the RPC (Remote Power Controller)],Retrieving a spare RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) from stowage and then changing out the RFTA in the Node-3 WRS-2 (Water Recovery System) Rack 2, discarding the old unit  [RFTAs collect the substances cleaned from the pretreated urine by the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) as it turns it into water.  They need to be replaced when filled],Reconfiguring the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) from feeding the internal EDV-U container back to feeding the UPA directly for processing, andSetting up the high-definition TV equipment for the subsequent crew news conference, later deactivating it again. Taking turns in assisting each other as CMO (Crew Medical Officer), CDR Borisenko & FE-1 Samokutyayev each performed the Russian biomed assessment MO-14 (Assessment of Orthostatic Endurance during LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) which examines the orthostatic stability of the crewmember’s cardiovascular system at rest using complex methods.    [Equipment used includes the CDM/Kardiomed unit, Doppler unit, CDP/Kardiopres with pump, belt & control units, cuffs, etc.  The Chibis ODNT suit is not used.] Afterwards, Samokutyayev began a new round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today replacing the PF1-4 dust filter cartridges in the SM (Service Module) after taking documentary photography of them, discarding the removed units as trash and updating the IMS (Inventory Management System). FE-1 also conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Later, Sasha took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). CDR Andrey Borisenko handled the daily monitoring of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM which is taking structural dynamics data during the Shuttle docked phase.  The data were later copied from the BUSD Control & Data Gathering Unit to a USB-D-M-3 stick for downlink to the ground.  The BUSD archive was then deleted and the DAKON-M restarted.    [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.] Borisenko spent most of his workday on routing & installing two cables for the new Russian experimental Laser Communications System (SLS) in the SM, mating them to the BKS Onboard Cable Network behind panels 121, 122 & 305. Before sleeptime, Aleksandr broke out and set up the equipment for another session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis, scheduled tomorrow for the two Russian crewmembers.       [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s /special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).] At ~5:41am EDT, the nine crewmembers joined for a PAO TV news conference with media at NASA Centers and at ESA in Italy. CDR & FE-1 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Andrey at ~7:16am, Sasha at ~8:01am EDT. The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR, FE-1).  No exercise was reported for Ron Garan. After Ron prepared the A/L EL (Airlock Equipment Lock) for today’s Campout, he joined the entire Shuttle crew at ~7:51am for an in-depth one-hour review of procedures for EVA-4 spacewalk, with egress scheduled tonight at ~12:51am.  At ~10:21am, “Spanky“ Fincke (EV2) & “Taz” Chamitoff (EV1), assisted by Ron Garan & Mark Kelly, began their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) in the A/L with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe (~10:21am-11:26am) and sleep from 11:56am-7:56pm.  Sleep for the ISS crew began 30 min earlier.  A hygiene break, with temporary repress to 14.7psi and depress back to 10.2psi, is scheduled for 8:31pm-9:41pm.  This will be followed by EMU Preps (9:41pm-11:11pm), EMU Purge (11:11pm-11:26pm), EMU Prebreathe (11:26pm-12:16am), suit leak checks (12:16am-12:46am), Crewlock Depress & Egress (~12:51am).  During EVA-4, EV1Chamitoff & EV2 Fincke will –Stow the OBSS (Orbiter Boom Sensor System) on the ISS, with SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) support by Box, Mark & Roberto,Retrieve the P6 PDGF (Power & Data Grapple Fixture),Swap the OBSS EFGF (Electrically flight-releasable grapple fixture) with the PDGF, Inspect the OTP LDTD (ORU {On-orbit Replaceable Units} Temporary Platform / Long-duration tie-down tether, EV1),Stow the EFGF (EV2)Release SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator) arm restraints at ELC3,Install MilSpec 1553 cable (get-ahead),Clean up & ingress (~6:46am) No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today. 