05-25-2011May 25, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/25/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   FD11 (Flight Day 11) of STS-134/Endeavour/ULF-6. Onboard crew complement: 9, all on the Shuttle crew’s sleep schedule:  Wake – 7:56pm last night; Sleep – 11:26am (till 7:56pm today). Mission ULF-6’s EVA-3 was completed successfully by EV1 Drew Feustel & EV2 Mike Fincke in 6h 54m, accomplishing all objectives.  Beginning this morning at 1:43am EDT, the spacewalk ended at 8:37am. [Instead of going through the usual overnight Campout procedure, Fincke & Feustel, after their sleep time, tested the new ISLE (In-Suit Light Exercise) protocol for denitrogenation, designed to create efficiency in spacewalk preparation.  They performed light exercise for 100 minutes while partially suited, using masks to breathe pure O2 (oxygen) to facilitate purging of N2 (nitrogen) from blood stream & tissues.  If successful, this could eliminate the need for campouts in the future.  Afterwards, with C/L (Crewlock) depressurization, suit leak checking and EV1/EV2 switching to suit power, EVA-3 began at 1:43am.  The excursion lasted 6h 54min.  This was the 3rd of the 4 STS-134 spacewalks, for a mission total of 21h 20m.  It was the 247th spacewalk conducted by U.S. astronauts, the 117th from ISS airlocks, and the 158th in support of ISS assembly & maintenance, totaling 995h 13m.  If all goes as planned, the 1,000th hour of ISS assembly & maintenance will be logged Friday (5/27).  It was Drew Feustel's 6th spacewalk, for a total time of 42h 18m which makes him the 14th on the all-time list.  It was his last spacewalk for the mission.   It also was Fincke's 8th spacewalk for a total time of 41h 13m which ties him for 18th on the all-time list with cosmonaut Talgat Musabayev.  On Friday, when Fincke conducts the mission's final spacewalk, he also will surpass Peggy Whitson as the U.S. astronaut with the most days in space (377 days).] During EVA-3, Drew & Spanky –Installed a PDGF (Power & Data Grapple Fixture) on the FGB “Zarya” module (to allow robotics operations from the RS/Russian Segment),Installed the VSC (Video Signal Conditioner),Installed power cables (Y-jumpers) for Channels 1/4 & 2/3 on the FGB (to provide backup power to the RS),Completed connections for EWIS (External Wireless Communications System) equipment (task deferred from EVA-1),Took infrared imagery of the STP-H3 (Space Test Program – Houston 3) technology payload (EV2),Took photographs of the new FGB PDGF and thrusters (EV2),Stowed EVA tools (EV1),Installed MLI (Multi-Layer Insulation) thermal cover on the HPGT FRGF (High Pressure Gas Tank Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture, EV1),Secured loose insulation on the new ELC3 (EXPRESS Logistics Carrier 3) – a get-ahead task, andCleaned up & ingressed A second get-ahead task, installing the MilSpec 1553 cable, was not performed (could be included in EVA-4). First thing in post-sleep, prior to eating, drinking & brushing teeth, FE-3 Ron Garan performed his 2nd saliva collection of the INTEGRATED IMMUNE protocol (Day 2).       [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples & analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmembers soak a piece of cotton inside their mouths and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned to the ground so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.] Later, Ron assisted the spacewalkers in their post-sleep EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Suit) purge, ISLE pre-breathing, C/L depress & suit leak check, and egress activities.  Taz Chamitoff acted as IV (Intravehicular) crewmember during the EVA-3, and Mark Kelly provided photo/video imagery support. CDR Andrey Borisenko handled the daily monitoring of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM (Service Module) which is taking structural dynamics data during the Shuttle docked phase.  The data were later copied from the BUSD Control & Data Gathering Unit to a USB-D-M-3 stick for downlink to the ground.  The BUSD archive was then deleted and the DAKON-M restarted.    [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.] Other activities completed by Borisenko included –Reviewing preparation procedures and then unstowing equipment for the planned installation of special cables for an experimental Laser Communications System (SLS) in the SM, supported by ground specialist tagup via VHF & S-band,Performing the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways to see how the ventilation/circulation system is coping with the 6-person crew,  [inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1],Conducting the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM  [regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers], andDownloading the structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer of the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA  [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104]. Both CDR & FE-1 completed a data collection session for the psychological program MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”), accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was Sasha’s 4th, Andrey’s 3rd onboard session with MBI-16.      [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.] FE-1 Aleksandr Samokutyayev worked on the Russian BVS computer system, dumping (downlinking) 5 log files from the RS1 laptop as .ZIP files. Later, Sasha continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, today cleaning the numerous Group A ventilator fans & grilles in the SM, after photographing all fan screens for ground inspection. After the spacewalk, activities by Mark, Spanky, Drew & Ron included the usual post-EVA tasks like photographing EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) gloves for inspection, recharging EMUs with water, downloading & downlinking D2Xs EVA & glove photographs, recharging EMU LIBs (Lithium-Ion Batteries) and REBAs (Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies), etc.    [One of Fincke’s EMU gloves showed a little damage; it is being analyzed.] Ron installed the VDS (Video Distribution System) video cap in Node-2 which enables pass-through reception of video from the Endeavour with the Orbiter docked. At ~10:06am EDT, Mark Kelly, Drew Feustel, Greg Chamitoff, Mike Fincke & Ron Garan conducted a post-EVA tagup with ground specialists to discuss spacewalk particulars. At ~10:36am, Andrey Borisenko & Alex Samokutyayev supported two Russian PAO TV events with US assets from the USOS (US Orbital Segment), downlinking greetings to (1) the participants of the RIA (Russian Information Agency) Novosti multimedia exhibition in London, dedicated to the 50th anniversary of the first manned flight into space, and (2) the International Festival of Children’s Creative Art held May 26-28 by the Russian Cooperation Organization in Segovia, Spain, as part of the Year of the Russian Federation in Spain and the Year of Spain in the Russian Federation.   [The Festival will take place with participation and under honorary chairmanship of Her Majesty Queen of Spain Sophia.  The main objective of the Festival is further strengthening and promotion of Russian-Spanish relations and creation of positive international image of Russia as of dynamically developing state with a great history and rich international traditions.  The Festival is called to unite the young generations of two countries on the basis of main human values understandable to all people anywhere on the planet, peace, mutual trust, care and compassion, love and happiness to our children.] The ISS crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1). No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today. Soyuz 25S Crew Update:   Cady Coleman & Paolo Nespoli arrived early this morning in Houston/Ellington at 1:51am EDT and are reportedly doing well. 