05-21-2011May 21, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 05/21/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    FE-3 Ron Garan continues on his special Shuttle-crew sleep schedule:  Wake – 9:26pm last night; off-duty – 11:30pm-2:00am; sleep – 12:56pm-9:26pm today. First thing in post-sleep, prior to eating, drinking & brushing teeth, Cady Coleman performed her 3rd liquid saliva collection of the INTEGRATED IMMUNE protocol (Day 3).  The collections are made every other day for six days.       [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples & analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmembers soak a piece of cotton inside their mouths and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned to the ground so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.] FE-3 Garan, whose day began ~4.5 hrs before the other ISS crewmembers, installed two EVA flash batteries in the DCS 760 battery charger and initiated their 3-hr. recharge. Later, Ron worked with FE-6 Coleman on turning around the NIKON D2Xs EVA cameras, one with flash and modified settings (under the camera’s peel-back thermal blanket). Also in support of the next spacewalk, to be conducted by “Spanky” Fincke and Drew Feustel, FE-5 Nespoli removed the LIBs (Lithium-Ion Batteries) from EMUs (Extravehicular Mobility Units) 3004 & 3005 for recharge.  Cady Coleman terminated the process about 7 hrs later.    [The data that were requested in these procedures are necessary for determining the battery capacity so that ground specialists have an accurate consumables calculation for EVA3.] Paolo Nespoli serviced the FCF (Fluids Combustion Facility) in the FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack), configuring the equipment for new research sessions (which are run autonomously through scripts and ground-based commanding.  Crew time is required for the initial installation and check out in the FIR, sample change out, and removal from the FIR.     [After configuring the US Lab camcorder to cover activities for POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center/Huntsville), Paolo opened the lower & upper FCF doors, rotated the LMM SBA (Light Microscopy Module / Spindle Bracket Assembly) from Operate position to Service position, installed the Bio Kit, with a sample installed on the Bio Base for testing, rotated the LMM SBA back to Operate position and closed the rack doors then turned on two switches and notified POIC that FIR was prepared for ground-commanding the RPC (Remote Power Controller).] In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Nespoli afterwards serviced the ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular 2) experiment by inserting a hard disk (HD3)2, with a recording capability of 135 min of high-quality video.      [ERB uses a three-dimensional (3-D) video camera, the Sony DSR PD150P camcorder and a Nikon SSM-3DC-101 3D photo camera for taking imagery of the environment onboard the ISS for an accurate map of the station’s interior.  The images are transferred by a computer application into a 3D model to be viewed in the Virtual Reality Theater of ESA’s Erasmus Center.] Working in the A/L (Airlock), Paolo installed EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) spacesuit batteries, LiOH (lithium hydroxide) canisters, REBAs (Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies), followed by a checkout of REBA-powered hardware. After Cady Coleman hat turned on the two VSW (Video Streaming Workstation) & the A31p SSC (Station Support Computer) with VWS load early in the day, FE-3 Ron Garan teamed up with Shuttle crewmates MS2 Roberto Vittori, MS3 Drew Feustel & PLT Box Johnson to unberth the OBSS (Orbiter Boom Sensor System) on the station with the SSMRS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) and hand it off to the SRMS (Shuttle RMS) for use during the Orbiter TPS inspection. FE-1 performed maintenance on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode. Continuing the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, Samokutyayev also cleaned Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) and later the TsV2 fan grille in the FGB. CDR Kondratyev then used the standard ECOSFERA equipment to conduct microbial air sampling runs for the MedOps SZM-MO-21 experiment, with the POTOK Air Purification System temporarily powered down, taking Kit 2 samples from cabin surfaces along with samples from crewmembers for sanitation and disease studies.  The Petri dishes with the samples were then stowed in the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic container and subsequently packed for return in Soyuz 25S.  Part 1 of MO-21 protocol was done 5/19, including overnight.      [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger and power supply unit, provides samples to help determine microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.] Later, Sasha performed the pre-undock testing of the Russian “Istochnik-M” (source, spring) Telemetry Reception & Recording system (SPR- TMI) in the SM, checking it out by communicating with the Soyuz 25S, docked at MRM1 nadir.      [SPR enables the ISS to receive telemetry from descending Soyuz spacecraft, particularly during tri-module separation, and record it on the Istochnik-M telemetry system.  With the VHF ham radio turned off, the BR-9TsU telemetry system on the Soyuz TMA-20M/25S was powered on, and the FSH3 spectrum analyzer was used to measure the input signal from the SM antenna.  The equipment, including the Istochnik TM station, power amplifiers, power supply, USB software sticks and cables, will capture Soyuz data through the “Sputnik” amateur (ham) radio antenna, and transfer it to a laptop display where the crew and the ground will be able to immediately tell if a good separation of the three modules occurred during Soyuz 24S descent operations]. In Node-3, Ron Garan took CWC (Contingency Water Container) water samples from the WRM (Water Recovery & Management) Waste Water Bus (condensate line), filling 1 purge and 2 sample bags. Later, Garan supported Roberto Vittori & Box Johnson on the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System), conducting a Focused Inspection on a damaged thermal tile of the Endeavour between the right-hand main landing gear door and the external tank umbilical door.     [Using the Integrated Digital Camera and LDRI (Laser Dynamic Range Imager) instruments on the end of the OBSS (Orbital Boom Sensor System), close-up imagery was obtained and later analyzed on the ground.  It was determined that the maximum depth of the removed tile material was 0.89 inch; the tile depth is 0.98 inch.  There was no exposed filler bar and thermal analysis determined that the maximum temperature that the aluminum substrate would reach is 219 deg Fahrenheit; well below the 350 degF level of concern.  Aerodynamic analysis predicts normal end-of-mission heating and no early boundary layer trip from this small cavity.  Endeavour’s thermal protection system was then cleared for entry.] Cady Coleman worked with Mark Kelly on terminating the N2 (nitrogen) transfer from the Endeavour to ISS. Other activities conducted by Cady included –Terminating EVA battery recharge in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly),Deactivating the two VSWs (Video Streaming Workstations) & the A31p SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop loaded with VSW software, Checking on the proper installation of the VDS (Video Distribution System) video cap in Node-2 which enables pass-through reception of video from the Endeavour with the Orbiter docked in support of SSRMS ops during crew sleep,Offloading the WPA WWT (Water Processor Assembly / Waste Water Tank) contents into a CWC-I (-Iodine) container from WWT process line B, then collecting a sample for return on ULF6 before tearing down the gear, andAdjusting CGBA Camera Module & Hab in the CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5) by pushing Camera Module 1 & Spider Hab S/N2 flush against the CGBA floor and the CGBA back wall, pushing Camera Module 4 & Spider Hab S/N1 flush against the CGBA floor & CGBA front wall, then closing and powering up the CGBA-5 unit.    Coleman also had another hour each set aside for personal crew departure preparations; these are standard pre-return procedures for crewmembers. Andrey Borisenko took care of –The daily monitoring of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM which is taking structural dynamics data during the Shuttle docked phase [the data were later copied from the BUSD Control & Data Gathering Unit to a USB-D-M-3 stick for downlink to the ground.  The BUSD archive was then deleted and the DAKON-M restarted.  IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises],The periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways to see how the ventilation/circulation system is coping with the 6-person crew  [inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1],The periodic calibration & adjustment test of the O2 sensor of the SM SOGS (Pressure Control & Atmospheric Monitoring System) IK0501 gas analyzer (GA), using the BKGA/Gas Analyzer Calibration Assembly and IGZ/Analyzer Status Indicator (constituent meter), supported by ground specialist tagup  [IK0501 is an automated system for measuring CO2, O2, and H2O in the air as well as the flow rate of the gas being analyzed], andThe routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM   [regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] For Soyuz undocking day (5/23), Dmitri & Paolo reviewed uplinked procedural material descriptive of the undocking and subsequent camera activities from the Soyuz BO/Orbital Module, shooting imagery of the ISS before deorbit.     [In order to have time for the imagery operations, 25S undock will occur on daily orbit 13 (5:32pm EDT) instead of daily orbit 14 as originally planned.  The 25S crew will use nominal procedures for all the undocking preparations, including nominal suit leak checks for all three.  The BO/SA (Descent Module) hatch will be leak-checked by monitoring the delta-P created when the suit leak checks increase pressure in the SA.  ISS maneuvers to the undock attitude on RS thruster control about 40 minutes before undock.  Shortly after sunrise, ISS goes to Free Drift, and the undock command is executed, opening the Soyuz hooks.  Following physical separation, the ISS resumes attitude control (snap-and-hold), and then Dima will perform a manual separation burn of about 1 m/s (30 sec), which will take Soyuz out to a range of about 22 m.  Dima will then fly out to about 200 meters and begin station-keeping.  At this point, about 10 minutes after the undock command, Paolo will open the BO/SA hatch, ingress the BO, and get set up for photo/video and LDI-11 laser range finder operations. Meanwhile, the ISS will return to the original Soyuz undock attitude from the snap and hold attitude.  23 minutes after the undock command, ISS will begin a 129° maneuver (0.2°/sec; ~15 min total) to an attitude designed to provide the best perspective of the ISS and Endeavour.  The plan has Paolo begin photography about 5 minutes before the maneuver and continue to capture still and video images for about 10 minutes after the maneuver is complete.  While Dima is stationkeeping, Paolo will pause imagery operations as needed to take range readings with the LDI-11.  Stationkeeping ends when Dima performs the final separation burn, ~0.73 m/s; the timeline has the last 5 minutes of operations in the BO after that burn is complete.  48 minutes after the undock command Paolo will remove the media cards for return, secure the camera and camcorder in the BO, return to the SA, and close the BO/SA hatch.  Suit leak checks will be repeated; certainly for Paolo, and potentially for Dima, if he needs to remove his gloves to perform his tasks.  The hatch leak check will be done by decreasing BO pressure per nominal procedure.  Once those leak checks are complete, 25S resumes a nominal separation and descent timeline.  The 4 min (115.2 m/s) deorbit burn will begin approximately 4h 4m after the undock command, Soyuz re-enters the atmosphere approximately 23 minutes after the deorbit burn is complete.  The parachute will open 8 minutes after they reach the atmosphere and they’ll be on the ground again 15 minutes after that.] FE-1, FE-2 & FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Andrey at ~10:05am, Sasha at ~11:40am, Cady at ~11:56 EDT. FE-5 & FE-6 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) scheduled, via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Paolo at ~10:51am, Cady at ~12:16pm EDT. At ~7:11am EDT, the crews of the ISS & Endeavour received a VIP call from Pope Benedict XVI live from the Vatican, with Thomas Reiter (ESA Director of Human Spaceflight and Operations); Enrico Saggese (President of ASI) & Giuseppe Bernardis (Italian Air Force General) in attendance.     [His message included these remarks:   “I am very happy to have this extraordinary opportunity to converse with you during your mission. I am especially grateful to be able to speak to so many of you, as both crews are present on the space station at this time. Humanity is experiencing a period of extremely rapid progress in the fields of scientific knowledge and technical applications. In a sense, you are our representatives – spear-heading humanity’s exploration of new spaces and possibilities for our future, going beyond the limitations of our everyday existence.  We all admire your courage, as well as the discipline and commitment with which you prepared yourselves for this mission.  We are convinced you are inspired by noble ideals and that you intend placing the results of your research and endeavours at the disposal of all humanity and for the common good.  This conversation gives me the chance to express my own admiration and appreciation to you and to all those who collaborate in making your mission possible, and to add my heartfelt encouragement to bring it to a safe and successful conclusion.”  Prior to the ULF6 mission Pope Benedict XVI had given a medal to MS-2 Robert Vittori.  The medal had a representation of the Creation of Man, as painted by Michelangelo on the Sistine Chapel ceiling.  Vittori floated the medal to FE-5 Nespoli, who will keep the medal through his return on 25S and then give it back to the Pope.] The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-2). After Ron Garan prepared the A/L EL (Airlock Equipment Lock) for today’s Campout, he and Paolo Nespoli joined the Shuttle crew at ~9:21am for an in-depth one-hour review of procedures for the EVA-1 spacewalk, with egress scheduled tomorrow morning at ~2:16am.     [During this spacewalk, Mike “Spanky” Fincke & Drew Feustel will retrieve reroute a P3-P4 jumper, set the ATA (Ammonia Tank Assembly) to Fill, perform P5/P6 NH3 (ammonia) fill/vent, remove PSARJ (portside Solar Alpha Rotary Joint) covers and perform 1st lubrication of PSARJ, perform EAS (Early Ammonia System) setup & venting, stow P3-P4 jumper, clean up the NH3 vent tool & stow the NH3 jumper, stow the S1 RAD grapple bar, perform PSARJ 2nd lube, reinstall PSARJ covers, install SPDM CLA covers, lubricate SPDM LEE (Latching Eng Effector), and clean up.] At ~11:51pm, Fincke (EV1) & Feustel (EV2), assisted by Ron Garan, began their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) in the A/L with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe (~11:51pm-12:56pm) and sleep from 1:26pm-9:26pm.  Sleep for the ISS crew begins 4 hrs later, at 5:30pm, except for Ron, who is on Shuttle crew time.  A hygiene break, with temporary repress to 14.7psi and depress back to 10.2psi, is scheduled for 10:01pm-11:11am.  This will be followed by EMU Preps (11:11pm-12:41am), EMU Purge (12:41am-12:56am), EMU Prebreathe (12:56am-1:46am) and Crewlock Depress (1:46am-2:16am).  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Seven -- Week 9) 2D NANO Template (JAXA):    Postponed GMT 140 MELFI retrieval, planned no earlier than June 10. 3D SPACE:    No report. AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report. ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete. ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     Measurements are continuing with all six SDU’s. On 05/17 (GMT137), the minimum duration of 20 days on this location has been met (preferred duration 30 days or more). AMS-02 (Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer):     5/19, AMS installed, activated, checked out, into nominal ops, configured for split power ops.  All nominal.  Data from over 50 million cosmic rays collected on the ground already.   Many thanks to the STS-134 crew. APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report. APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report. Asian Seed 2010 (JAXA):    Photo session is on the task list. BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):     No report. BIOLAB (ESA):    No report. BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):     | No report. BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report. BISPHOSPHONATES:    “Cady, we have moved your last pill ingestion and photo activity to Sunday, 5/22, due to Monday's undocking.  Thank you for your participation and we look forward to seeing you on the ground.” BXF-Facility (Boiling eXperiment Facility, NASA):    "Following is a brief summary of the recent extended NPBX operations (just prior to BXF removal in week 8):  1. Multiple bubble merger at various liquid subcoolings and system pressures  2. Steady state boiling curves at various pressures (0.6 atm to 2.5 atm)  3. Transient boiling curves at various pressures (0.6 atm to 2.5 atm)  4. Critical heat flux was observed twice at low pressures." BXF-MABE (Microheater Array Boiling Experiment, NASA):    No report. BXF-NPBX  (Pool Boiling Experiment, NASA):       No report. CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for   Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):      “Thanks, Paolo, for your the CARDIOLAB Kits consolidation activity on 5/9”. CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete. CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report. CBEF-2 (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:      No report. CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report. CERISE (JAXA):    No report. CCF (Capillary Channel Flow):    No report. CFS-A (Colored Fungi in Space-A, ESA):   No report. CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    “Thank you, Cady, for the CSI-05 set-up, we love the names you have given the ladies.  Both Esmerelda and Gladys are looking healthy, and have both spun webs.  The fruit flies are also healthy and a good colony appears with flies, pupae and larvae.  The science is progressing well and as expected.” CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete. CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:     No report. Commercial (Inc 23&24, JAXA):     No report. Commercial (Inc 25 & 26, JAXA):    Sample launch & return by ULF6. CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report. CsPins (JAXA):   Run1-3 was performed on 4/27 & 4/28.  The sample was fixed and stowed in MELFI. And the samples of Run1-2 and Run1-3 are waiting for ULF6. CubeLab:   Shuttle Crew activated LMA and MDA hardware in CubeLab Module-7 and Module-8, respectively.   Part of the LMA will be transferred to ISS and deactivated at a later date. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete. DECLIC-ALI (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization-ALICE-like, CNES/NASA):     No report. DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS, ESA):    Acquiring science data with DOSTEL-2 detector.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report. EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report. EKE (Endurance Capacity by Gas Exchange and Heart Rate Kinetics During Physical Training, ESA):    No report. ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.  EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    No report. ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report. EPM (European Physiology Module):     No report. EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Hobbies):      No report. EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Kids in Space):   No report. EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report. EPO GREENHOUSE (ESA):    No report. EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report. EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report. EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15. EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete. EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report. EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    No report. EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report. EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report. EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete. EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report. EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report. EPO Spiral Top 2 (JAXA, EPO-6):    “GMT 132, GMT 133 (to retry) completed. GMT 133 completed download via MPC. Thanks for beautiful pictures.” ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    “A downlink session was completed on 5/17.  The workaround for an anomaly of slow file transfer previously was successful implemented. Thanks Paolo & Cady for your help there.” ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed. FACET-2 (JAXA):   No report.  FERULATE (JAXA):    No report. FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     No report. Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132. FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report. FOCUS:    No report. FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):     Active for GEOFLOW-II experiment.  Refer to GEOFLOW-II. FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report. GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report. GEOFLOW (ESA):    On-going operations, however impacted by 3 anomalies over the last couple of weeks: 1) Experiment Container PID control is skipping some experimental set-points; 2) FSL encountered some TEC control board trips; 3) problem with the Experiment Container Rotating Tray (belt slipping). These anomalies restrict the parameter ranges (Delta T, rotation speed) to perform science runs for the moment. A new EP (Experiment Procedure) was developed and validated to resolve the two first anomalies listed. This EP was uplinked on 5/9.  This new EP allowed to perform no-rotation runs with the temperature of the coldest sphere (Tcold) = 20degC (Coldest possible), but not the no-rotation runs with the temperature of the coldest sphere (Tcold) = 30.5degC (Hottest possible). Runs for the first mentioned thermal environment (Tcold=20degC) have been completed and some runs with skipped setpoints of past runs have been started. In the meantime, an update of this new EP has been worked to solve the problem for the runs of the other thermal environment (Tcold=30.5degC), this update has been tested on ground. Also a possible new anomaly is under investigation, where setpoints are skipped after only some minutes of thermal stabilization time rather than at the PID control check after 20min.  HAIR (JAXA):    No report. HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1. Hicari (JAXA):    Continued troubleshooting GHF Heating Unit over-current. Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report. HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P. HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):     HICO has taken 3181 images to date. The most recent HICO images include images of the coast of Portugal, the Sicilian Strait and the Bay of Bengal.  RAIDS is collecting secondary science including nighttime atmospheric disk photometry, spectra and temperatures.  Extreme Ultraviolet airglow spectroscopy and optical contamination studies are also being performed.  HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):    No report. ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete. ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):      No report. IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete. INTEGRATED IMMUNE:    No report. InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report. IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report. ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     No report.   ISSAC (ISS Agricultural Camera, NASA):     No report. IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.  KID/KUBIK6:    No report. Kids in Micro-G:    All six Kids in Micro-G experiments have been completed. There are some very excited middle school students. Thank you for the valuable close-up footage of each experiment.  Paolo and Ron, great camera work. Cady extra thanks for locating the Water Drops video. You captured what the students needed for the microgravity portion of their experiments and gave a little extra! The videos are being edited and provided to the students to complete their scientific investigations before summer break. The videos will also be edited for posting to NASA education websites. The videos of the experiment results have the potential to be beneficial to both middle and high school classes. KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report. LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report. Marangoni Exp (JAXA):    24th run was completed on 12/22. Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf. Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    The MI cassette removal and stow was performed on 5/2 in preparation for return on ULF7. Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    No report. MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    No report. MDCA/Flex:    No report. MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.  Microbe-2 (JAXA):    Sample return by ULF6. Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete. MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally except for PEC B which is powered off and was retrieved during EVA-1.  The CMOS Imager Experiment (CIE) is testing the radiation effects on a CMOS based imager chip.  A CIE image was successfully downloaded last week.  This image will be examined to detail the nature of radiation degradation. The SpaceCube experiment has the ability to be reconfigured from the ground with updated code and the process of uploading new radiation hardening by software experiment algorithms is in progress.  About 57% of the SpaceCube file uploads are complete and the remaining uploads will be spread out over at least another month.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report. MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4. MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report. MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    Last Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) returned with STS-133 (ULF5). MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”. MULTIGEN-1:   Completed. MYCO 3 (JAXA):    GMT 138, Coleman and Nespoli completed sampling and stow in GLACIER, planned for Garan and Shuttle Crew PLT on GMT148. MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20. NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Experiment Exp2 completed on 4/8. NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report. NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete. NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:   No report. PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report. PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):     Planned on GMT 142, 17 Dosimeters will be stowed into 25S.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report. PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report. PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report. PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG. PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete. POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete. Pro K:    No report. RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete. RadSilk (JAXA):    No report. RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):     “Paolo and Cady,  the actual number of tests you will complete is 89. The number we have been carrying, 115, was a planning number. Thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test throughout your increment!  Ron, next week on GMT 148 you will begin the Reaction Self Test sleep shift session. For a sleep shift session, Reaction Self Test is performed twice daily for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following the sleep shift. Therefore you will have Reaction Self Test scheduled from GMT 148 to GMT 156.” RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report. SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report. SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report. SAMPLE:    Complete. SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report. SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20. SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete. SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):    No report. SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    No report. SMILES (JAXA):   Recooling mode #13 continues. SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report. SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    COLLOID flash-disks returned with STS-133 (ULF5). SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    The Sun Visibility Window#40 ended on 05/11.  Since then SOLACES was kept heated to counteract a degradation of spectrometers as this has shown to have a positive effect during the previous shadowing period(s). The Sun Visibility Window#41 started on 05/18.  SOLACES main flange temperature was brought back down before science started.  Both SOLACES and SOLSPEC acquiring science data. SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report. Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report. SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report. SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA):    No report. SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.    SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):     No report. SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report. TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report. THERMOLAB (ESA):    No report. TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned. TREADMILL KINEMATICS:     “Ron, thanks for your great work on Treadmill Kinematics.  And thanks to Cady for carefully navigating around the camcorder so as not to bump it!“ TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report. ULTRASOUND:    Planned. VASCULAR (CSA):   “Cady: the team would like to express their sincere thanks to you for finding our blood collection kit!” VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report. VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring science data with NorAIS receiver. VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    No sessions possible due to Ultrasound anomaly. VO2max (NASA):    No report. VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report. WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report. YEAST B (ESA):    No report. CEO (Crew Earth Observation):     No report. No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today. 