
Payloads:
AC Touch: Per standard procedure, the crew touched both the coated and uncoated coupons for this long-term investigation.  Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
COSMIC: The crew performed the steps necessary to connect the COSMIC (Confocal Space Microscopy) to the IPU (Image Processing Unit).  This was performed in preparation for the upcoming Cell Gravisensing investigation.  The Elucidation of the Gravisensing Mechanism in Single Cells (Cell Gravisensing) investigation studies how cells sense gravity. While recent research has revealed that individual animal cells can detect gravity, the mechanism for this sensing is largely unknown. This investigation analyzes changes in tension in cell stress fibers during spaceflight as a possible mechanism.
Fluidics run: The crew set up the Fluidics experiment hardware and initiated the first science run.  The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
ISS HAM: The crew participated in ann ISS HAM pass with Saint Pierre Marboz, Marboz, France.  The event involved 827 total students aged 6 to 15 from the hosting school and 6 other participating elementary schools.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Pilote: The crew set up the appropriate hardware and performed one complete protocol and a third of a second protocol for this science session.  In order to test the ergonomics of a multisensory interface for controlling robotic arms and spacecraft, it is necessary to perform the trials in microgravity. Performing the test on Earth would lead to a design of a work station using terrestrial ergonomic principles that do not correspond to conditions experienced on a spacecraft in orbit. The Pilote investigation tests the effectiveness of novel control schemes for the remote operation of robotic arms and space vehicles, using virtual reality and a new class of user-machine interfaces based on haptics.
RTPCG-2: The crew set up the appropriate microscope hardware, observed and took photos of the crystal growth screening plate.  The protein crystals in the plate have been growing for 7 days under varying conditions. Phase II Real-time Protein Crystal Growth on Board the International Space Station (RTPCG-2) demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity can sometimes produce high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 tests high-quality proteins crystals for detailed analysis back on Earth.
Toilet (Exploration ECLSS-TOILET):  In a continuation of the trouble shooting efforts, the crew replaced the fan/urine separator unit with a spare. The Toilet System is an Exploration Tech Demo that has evolved into a permanent USOS system.  The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS).  The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for USOS for up to 90-crew-days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent WHC/Toilet operations.
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMU) 3004/3015 Loop Scrub, and Iodination: The crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity on units 3004 and 3015. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Forward ISS Docking Adapter (IDA) inspection: Today the crew inspected and took photo documentation of the Forward ISS Docking Adapter (IDA) MLI to determine if it interferes with the Visiting Vehicle Capture Latch pawls and to measure IDA MLI thickness near the Visiting Vehicle Capture Latch and IDA Striker Plate. The crew determined Overall MLI looks in place, and there is no interference with the striker plates.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement: As part of system health monitoring, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through selected ventilation inlets and outlets. Today’s measurements were taken in the JEM.
Water Stowage System (WSS) Resupply Tank Changeout: Today, Crew changed out the full Water Resupply Tanks 1,2,3 in the US Lab WSS Rack with empty Water Resupply Tanks. The WSS resupply tanks are COTS tanks. The outer shell of the tank is a fiberglass composite that is sealed with an epoxy resin (not wetted). The interior of the shell is lined with polyethylene and the internal bladder is the polyether urethane material. Unlike most of the bladder tanks commonly used in the NASA world, the water is stored between the bladder and the shell (as opposed to inside the bladder). During transfer ops, the bladder is filled with compressed air which forces the water out of the tank.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: Today the crew set up the recycle tank to drain to a ЕДВ-У. Following the setup the ground performed the tank drain using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, and repositioned the fill/drain valve to fill
Completed Task List Activities:

Record ESA PAO Message
Stowage Follow Up

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Command and Control Software (CCS) S-band Telemetry (TLM) Housekeeping 1 (HK1) Preempt
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) High Pressure (HP) Oxygen Valve Open
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Node 3 Mode Transition to Dual

