
Axiom-2 (Ax-2) Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Undock: SpaceX Crew Dragon Freedom undocked from the ISS at 10:05 AM CT to return private astronauts Peggy Whitson, John Shoffner, Ali Alqarni, and Rayyanah Barnawi following a successful eight day docked mission. The vehicle is scheduled to splash down near Panama City, Florida, at 10:04 PM CT.
Payloads:
Space Hematopoietic Collections (SASHA) (Ax-2): SASHA blood sample collections were performed for return on Ax-2 and subsequent analysis. SASHA on the Ax-2 PAM evaluates blood stem cells and DNA- and RNA-editing enzymes that are related to the development of inflammatory disease and cancer. Samples taken before, during, and after spaceflight are analyzed to better understand the changes in the editing activity of these enzymes and other changes in blood stem cells that occur due to spaceflight.
ElectroMagnetic Levitator (EML): Both argon valves were opened, and the helium valve was closed in support of upcoming science activities. EML is a multi-user facility that provides containerless melting and solidification of electrically conductive, spherical samples, under ultra-high vacuum and/or high purity gas environments. Heating and positioning of the sample are achieved by electromagnetic fields generated by a coil system. The EML supports research in the field of meta-stable states and phases, as well as the field of measurement of highly accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys in the stable and undercooled state.
Human Research Program (HRP) Sample Collection: The ISS crew collected samples in support of the Food Physiology, Standard Measures, and Repository investigations. Food Physiology is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. Standard Measures collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. Repository is a storage bank that is used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time to support future research.
Kibo Robot Programming (Robo-Pro) Challenge-4 Technical Rehearsal-1: The Astrobee free-flier was used to perform a Technical Rehearsal for the Robo-Pro Challenge scheduled for later this year. Unfortunately, due to Astrobee technical issues, the objectives were not completed, and the session will be replanned. Technical Rehearsals are used to test and verify various elements of the real Robo-Pro challenge. In the actual competition, the student teams will develop code to direct Astrobee to locate and seal a virtual ammonia leak into the ISS cabin. Kibo Robo-Pro Challenge, also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the ISS. This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering, and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers.
Monoclonal Antibodies Protein Crystal Growth-2 (PCG-2): Based on the observations and results from the 96-well screening cards, two 24-well PCG-2 cards were loaded with a much larger volume of stock proteins and appropriate reagents. Screening and Batch Manufacture of Complex Biotherapeutics in Microgravity (Monoclonal Antibodies PCG-2) examines the crystallization process for various biotherapeutics, including monoclonal antibodies, in microgravity. Crystallization could significantly reduce production costs and enable formulations of biotherapeutics that do not need cold storage and that can be administered more easily, such as by injection rather than intravenous administration. 
Ring Sheared Drop-Interfacial Bioprocessing of Pharmaceuticals (RSD-IBP): The ISS crew removed the processed Sample 26 and its test cell, and then installed the next sample to be processed. The ground team will later command the deployment of a large drop of liquid (up to 25mm in diameter) into the system for processing. RSD is a containerless liquid system that makes it possible to study protein solutions without the effects of interactions with solid walls. RSD-IBP studies the behavior of high-concentration protein fluids and tests computer models for predicting that behavior. More accurate models could enable production of next-generation medicines for treating cancers and other diseases.
Space Health: The crew reviewed the Big Picture Words (BPW) for the upcoming Space Health science session, which spans two days. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after a mission to the ISS to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. The Artemis analytical platform is used to provide automated analysis of the cardiovascular system in order to develop a near real-time assessment tool. The potential use of the Bio-Monitor system and the Artemis platform for future space missions is being evaluated.
Systems:
International Docking Adaptor (IDA) Egress in Preparation for Departure: Today, the ISS and PAM crews configured Dragon for departure, final egress, and Dragon Hatch closure. The crews also configured the Pressurized Mating Adaptor (PMA) for Dragon departure, and closed the PMA Androgynous Peripheral Attachment System (APAS) and Node 2 Forward Overhead Hatches.
Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Cleanup: Today, the ISS crew reconfigured and consolidated stowage in the PMM to increase open volumes in lockers and rack fronts. The PMM is primarily used for the storage of spares, supplies, and waste on the ISS.
Robotics Work Station (RWS) Display and Control Panel (DCP) Checkout: Today, the ISS crew verified critical RWS functionality prior to Mobile Servicing System (MSS) operations. The crew checked out the Lab and Cupola RWS DCPs. The primary purpose of the RWS is to provide the capability to control and monitor MSS equipment to an Intravehicular (IV) crewmember located in the pressurized modules of the ISS, or to flight controllers on the ground. The MSS is a robotic system that provides construction, maintenance, and payload handling capabilities on the ISS.
Completed Task List Activities:

N/A

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Dragon Zenith Configuration for Departure
ACS Configuration for Dragon Undocking from PMA3
PPS BGA Latch
SDMS Activation
JEMRMS Activation
PPS SARJ Lock/Unlock
SPS Powerdown
Dragon Vestibule Depressurization
Dragon SSC – Ground Configuration

