
Bio-Monitor: A crewmember doffed and stowed the BioMonitor hardware. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way.  The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, ECG (Electrocardiogram), skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc.
Space Pup: SpacePup samples were stowed on SpX-17 for return. Space Pup represents the first step toward studying the effects of space radiation on mammalian reproduction which must be understood to sustain life beyond Earth.
Veg-04A: The crew filled out the Profile of Mood questionnaire in reference to the VEG-04 activities. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-04A, Veg-04B, and Veg-05) investigation is a phased research project to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-04A focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 28-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.
Photobioreactor: The crew installed a software update to the Photobioreactor hardware. Today the life support systems that sustain astronauts in space are based on physicochemical processes. The Photobioreactor investigation aims at demonstrating that microalgae (i.e. biological processes) can be used together with existing systems to improve recycling of resources, creating a hybrid life support system. This hybrid approach could be helpful in future long-duration exploration missions, as it could reduce the amount of consumables required from Earth, and will first be tested in space on the ISS.
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabalization (CEVIS): FE-5 and FE-6 completed Max CEVIS tests today. This test is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. It is performed three times per increment. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Nominal ground commanding

Look Ahead:
Friday, 05/31 (GMT 151)
Payloads:


SpacePup retrieve and stow for return (JAXA)
MVP carousel replace (NASA)
MicroAlgae photography (NASA)
Fluid Shifts Fundoscope Eye Imaging ops (NASA)
FURPHY Water transfer (NASA)
NanoParticle Formulation Camera ops (NASA)
RR-12 Final LSG Cleanup filter adapter install and Glovebox Freezer teardown(NASA)
CIR ACME controller replace and Manifold-2 bottle replace (NASA)
STaARS Bio-3 removal (NASA)
POLAR to Dragon transfers (NASA)
GLACIER 1 and 4 Desiccant swap (NASA)

Systems:

US EVA tool stow
EMU helmet light inspection
Dragon LiOH filter bag install

Saturday, 06/01 (GMT 152)
Payloads:


Food Acceptability (NASA)
MicroAlgae removal from VEGGIE and MELFI insert (NASA)
Nanoparticle Formulation Imagery (NASA)
Mouse Mission Transfers Procedure review (JAXA)

Systems:

Crew off duty; housekeeping

Sunday, 06/02 (GMT 153)
Payloads:


Mouse Mission Transfers (JAXA)
POLAR-Dragon Transfer review (NASA)

Systems:

Cargo transfer ops for Dragon departure
Dragon egress 

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Nanoparticle Formulation Camera Activities
RS ISS Reconfiguration for Nominal Ops
CEVIS Portable PFS Partial Set Up
Activation of Vozdukh Atmosphere Revitalization Subsystem. Checkout of Vozdukh operation in mode 2 with different airflow on Vacuum Valve Group
Bio-Monitor Hardware Stow
Bio-Monitor Crew Conference
Removal of US TV camera, Light, and REBA battery from Orlan-MKS
Max CEVIS Portable PFS Power Up
PhotoBioreactor Software USB plug into PL NAS
MICRO ALGAE Redistribution Ops
Post-EVA debrief
CEVIS Portable PFS Subject
PhotoBioreactor Software Load
Handover of US EVA Tools to USOS after EVA-46
Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Transfer
Pressurization of Elektron-VM Liquid Unit before Activation
Removal of Portable Repress Tank No.17 in SM [РО] and stowage in MRM2
Installation of video recording equipment (1 count) in DC1 and ПхО after RS EVA
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Photobioreactor Software Conclude
Disassembly and stowage of REMOTE RS LAPTOP (Remote SM Central Post work station)
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Subject
Post-EVA Medical Kits Restow
Collecting Post-EVA Pille Dosimeter Data
Daily Planning Conference
CEVIS Portable PFS Partial Stow
HRF Veg Profile of Mood States Questionnaire
LSG Work Volume Deploy
HRF Veg Profile of Mood States Questionnaire

 