
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer #8 (NRCSD#8) Deployment Operations: Following yesterday’s successful deployment of 1 of NRCSD #8 eight Silos, 2 more were successfully deployed last night and 1 was deployed earlier this morning. The next planned deployment is scheduled for today at 6:55 PM CDT. This is the second of three consecutive days of deployment operations for NRCSD#8. Each Silo contains two CubeSats for a total of 16 Doves. The Dove satellites are a fleet of nanosatellites that enables imagery of the entire changing planet to be taken on a frequent basis, with humanitarian and environmental applications ranging from monitoring deforestation and the ice caps to disaster relief and improving agriculture yields in developing nations. The NRCSD is a commercially operated small satellite deployer from the ISS, maximizing full capabilities of each airlock cycle [of deployments.
 
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PBRE) Hardware Setup and Installation: The crew reviewed PBRE reference material before gathering hardware, setting up the PBRE and components, and connecting the cables and hoses in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). The video system did not operate as expected, and troubleshooting was unsuccessful.  Ground teams are investigating.  The PBRE will be used to study the behavior of gases and liquids when they flow simultaneously through a column filled with fixed porous media. The porous media or “packing” can be made of different shapes and materials and are used in chemical engineering as a means to enhance the contact between two immiscible fluid phases (e.g., liquid-gas, water-oil, etc.). Packed columns can serve as reactors, scrubbers and strippers in systems where efficient interphase contact is desired, both on Earth and in space.
 
Sprint: The crew performed Sprint VO2 video setup, exercise preparation, instrument calibrations and exercise protocol.  Sprint VO2 is a test that measures oxygen uptake, ventilatory threshold, and other physiological parameters. It evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crew members during long-duration missions.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS.
 
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) Remove & Replace (R&R) Setup:  In preparation for this week’s activity to R&R RPCM P12B_A that failed in 2012, Robotics Ground Controllers are currently setting up the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and relocating the Cargo Transport Container (CTC) from External Logistics Carrier (ELC) to SPDM. This activity will restore Camera Port 9 Light (P1 Lower Outboard) heater functionality. All operations are ground controlled with no crew time required.
 
USOS Stowage Consolidation: The crew began this activity yesterday in preparation for upcoming visiting vehicles. Today they continued moving bags and hardware off PMM rack fronts, relocating SpX-9 return items to Node 2 (N2) Endcone and stowing future crew provisions bags in the crew provisions rack. The crew also consolidated items and cleaned out N2 when they unpacked items that were delivered on SpX-8 and consolidated food items.
 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Maintenance: The crew R&Rd all four mounting cleats on the ARED bench. Fracture analysis performed on the ground indicated that the previously installed mounting cleats had exceeded their operational life.
 
ARED Sensor Calibration: The crew attempted to perform a sensor calibration via the Station Support Computer (SSC) resident software. This was intended to calibrate the rotational sensors in the main arm and the load sensors for cable exercises to utilize the new ARED software load. The activity was aborted due to an error message on the SSC indicating that a required file was missing. Ground teams are currently discussing the signature and determining a forward plan.
 
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Status: The WPA was commanded to process several times since Friday. The conductivity remained elevated and WPA went into reprocessing several times. Reprocessing did bring conductivity down enough to send product water to the Water Storage Tank. The likely cause of high conductivity is the combination of DiMethylSilaneDiol (DMSD) and ethanol reaching the reactor. Reprocessing allowed the WPA to clean up from the temporary spikes in DMSD and/or ethanol that may have come in from condensate. The WPA has been in reprocess for a total of 18-20 hours between Friday and today. A higher percentage of distillate to condensate was established in the Waste Water Tank to help support the conductivity recovery. WPA is currently in the standard first hour reprocess of a process cycle and the conductivity is 43 uhmos/cm.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

[ВКС] Laptops Antivirus Software Checkout / r/g 8247
Stowage consolidation on the USOS
Soyuz 720 Samsung Tablet PC Charging (start)
Soyuz-719 Samsung Tablet PC Charging (start)
MARES. Work Area Prep
Monitoring the Condition of RS Hull Structural Element Surfaces Using the МВП-2К Multipurpose Eddy Current Device (SA Cross-Section) r/g 2387
Makita Drill Battery Discharge (5 pc.) / r/g 2399
MAR. Partial Hardware Setup
PBRE. Experiment Ops Review
PBRE. Hardware Setup
WRM. Water Balance Placeholder
ARED – Bench Cleats Replacement
MAR. Data Transfer from SCSI Drive to the laptop
Photography of CubeSat Deployment
Makita Drill Battery #1 Charge Setup/ r/g 2399
Soyuz-720 Samsung Tablet PC Charging (end)
Soyuz-719 Samsung Tablet PC Charging (end)
24-hour ECG Holter Monitoring (end) / r/g 2383
Monitoring the Condition of RS Hull Structural Element Surfaces Using МВП-2К Multipurpose Eddy Current Device (ПхО Spherical Shell) r/g 2387
MD. Printer Ops
24-hour blood pressure monitoring (end) / r/g 2382
SPRINT. Hardware Activation
JEM Terminal Laptop Reboot
AMO2. ER7 Deactivation
Makita Drill Battery #1 Charge Termination and Battery #7 Charge Start / r/g 2399
AMO2. Status Check
ARED Software Familiarization
Data Prep about Monitoring the Condition of RS Hull Structural Element Surfaces to be downlinked via OCA
WRM. Water Balance Placeholder
24-hour ECG Holter Monitoring (Start) / r/g 2383
SPRINT. Experiment Ops (Subject)
MAR. Laptop Switch
24-hour blood pressure monitoring (start) / r/g 2382
Hardware Prep for PAO
MSG. Glovebox Activation
Makita Drill Battery #7 Charge Termination and Battery #8 Charge Start / r/g 2399
SPRINT. Hardware Stowage
Crew prep for PAO
PAO Event
PBRE. Hardware Setup
Symbolic Activity / r/g 2183
HABIT. Experiment Ops Prep
Makita Drill Battery #8 Charge Termination and Battery #9 Charge Start / r/g 2399
SPRINT. Closeout Ops
AMO2. ER7 Activation
AMO2. Status Check
ARED Sensor Calibration [Deferred]
MAR. Hardware Installation on HRF Rack
Makita Drill Battery #9 Charge Termination and Battery #10 Charge Start / r/g 2399
Routine Maintenance of [КН], [КВ], and КД Valves in SM Rodnik Tanks
MAR. Hard Drive Installation in EPM Rack
IMS Delta File Prep
MARES. Work Area Prep
СОЖ Maintenance
URAGAN. Observation and Photography Using Photo Equipment / r/g 2401
Makita Drill Battery #10 Charge Termination / r/g 2399
BD-2 Exercise, Day 3
PBRE. Photography
HD Video Prep for a PAO Event in the USOS
Crew Prep for a PAO Event / r/g 2400
TV Greetings of the Participants of the First Corporate Rocket and Space Industry Championship “Roscosmos Young Professionals in World Skills Standards” r/g 2400
BEAM. Pressure and Temperature Readings

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

CubeSat deploy
BEAM leak check
Sprint VO2 support
Nominal ground commanding

 
