
55Soyuz (55S) Launch: 55S launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome this morning at 6:12 AM CT with Sergy Prokopev, Serena Auñón-Chancellor, and Alexander Gerst on-board.  Docking to the Mini Research Module-1 (MRM-1) module is scheduled at 08:07 AM CT on June 8 after a 34-orbit rendezvous. The ISS crew compliment will increase to six after hatch opening at approximately 10:05 AM CT.
NanoRacks-Remove Debris (RemDeb):  The crew prepared the RemDeb satellite in the JEM for deployment by removing launch panels and protective coverings, attaching the Kaber deployer system to the satellite, and then attaching the satellite/Kaber assembly to the Airlock Adapter Plate on the JEM Airlock Slide Table.  The Slide Table was then retracted back into the Airlock and the inner hatch closed.  These activities are being performed in support of the jettison of the RemDeb planned for June 19th.  NanoRacks-Remove Debris demonstrates an approach to reducing the risks presented by space debris or “space junk”. Collisions in space may have serious consequences, but research has shown that removing the largest debris significantly reduces the chance of collisions. NanoRacks-Remove Debris uses a 3D camera to map location and speed of debris and then deploys a net to capture and de-orbit simulated debris that is up to 1 meter in diameter.  Ground experts will then analyze video of the demonstration runs. 
Wireless Communication and Positioning Experiment (Wireless Compose): Today the crew configured the WiseNet Base Station and install WiseNet motes in the Columbus module.  Wireless Compose demonstrates a wireless network for the efficient readout of sensors and the localization of moving objects within the Columbus module of the ISS. The experiment is based on the impulse radio – ultra-wideband (IR-UWB), which extends the capabilities of a recently performed wireless sensor network (WSN) demonstration using Industrial, Scientific, and Medical (ISM) bands at 2.45 GHz. The evaluation of Wireless Compose results will help in the analysis of potential uses of WSN for unmanned and manned spaceflight missions, and to derive obstacles and limitations for the operations under very specific conditions due to the complex electromagnetic environment. 
Atomization: The crew replaced sample syringes for the Atomization investigation today. The Atomization experiment investigates the disintegration processes of a low-speed water jet for various jet issue conditions in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to validate the new atomization concept by observing the process using a high speed camera. The knowledge gained can be applied to improve various engines utilizing spray combustion. 
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL): The crew performed troubleshooting activities for the SABL 2 hard drive today.  The crew was unable to log onto the SABL 2 laptop previously but was able to log in today.  SABL supports a wide variety of experiments in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. 
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Kaber and NanoRacks Kaber Plate (STEP) Gather
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
Remove Satellite Operations Review
Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф1 Cartridge (start)
Acoustic Monitor Setup for Crew Worn Measurements
A/L Adapter Plate (JCAP) and NanoRacks Kaber Plate (STEP) Installation
Filling (separation) of EDV-SV and EDV for SRV-U-RS
Remove Satellite Hardware Preparation and Installation on the JEM Airlock Slide Table
СОЖ maintenance
SEPARATION. Preparation for Distillation
Scheduled monthly maintenance of Central Post Laptop. Laptop Log-File Downlink.
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Retraction from JPM Side in Manual Mode
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Atomization syringe replacement 2
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab 2, Hard Drive Troubleshooting
INTER-MAI-75. Preparation, config setup and HAM Radio activation.
Wireless Compose Big Picture Words Reading
Biolab Incubator Door Locking Bolt Installation – Part 1
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab 2, Cable Troubleshooting
Plant Habitat-01 Water Fill
БКС cable repair behind SM panel 327
Transfer of USOS ЕДВ brine to Progress 438 [AO] to Rodnik H2O Tank 2 and flushing H2O tank 2 connector В2
Biolab Incubator Door Locking Bolt Functional Check
Wireless Compose Motes Installation
Manufacturing Device Print Removal, Clean and Stow
INTER-MAI-75. Hardware Deactivation
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
IMS Update
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
Acoustic Monitor Battery Swap 

Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


55S Launch
EHDC BEAM Survey

