
Fluid Shifts:  Fluid Shift operations continued today in the Russian Service Module (SM).  Kelly was the first to don the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP/Chibis) device while Kornienko, with ground support in Moscow, assisted with medical monitoring.  While Kelly was subjected to the negative pressure (pulling the fluid toward the feet), Padalka, with remote guidance in Houston, performed arterial and venous measurements of the head and neck; cardiac, ophthalmic, and portal vein measurements; and tissue thickness of various body parts using the Human Research Facility (HRF) ultrasound.  Following Kelly’s Chibis session, Kornienko then donned the Chibis and Padalka acted as the medical monitor with Kelly as the ultrasound operator.  Following the scans, Kelly deconfigured the ultrasound and configured the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) and Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE) for tomorrow’s operations.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections: Cristoforetti performed urine collections for her Return minus 15 (R-15) day Biochemical Profile, Cardio Ox, and Repository experiments.  After collection, the samples were placed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a later flight.
Advanced Colloids Experiment Heated-1 (ACE-H1) Configuration: Virts accessed the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) to swap the ACE-Microscopy-3 (M3) experiment to the ACE-H1 experiment.  He removed ACE-M3, changed out cables and configured the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) for the next set of ACE-H1 runs (two planned and one contingency) including placing wipes and oil dispensers inside the LMM Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC). The experiment examines densely packed microscopic spheres, or colloidal mixtures, to study their transition from ordered crystals into disordered glass. The particles are fluorescent and change size in different temperatures so scientists are able to see how they move and change forms as they are heated and cooled. Studying particle interactions without the influence of gravity improves scientists’ ability to understand how increasing disorder in a crystal material affects the freezing, melting, aging and structural integrity.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove & Replace (R&R) Prep: In preparation for tomorrow’s and Thursday’s planned R&R of Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3010 FPS, Cristoforetti gathered and staged tools required for the activity.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Fluid Shifts config
Regeneration of БМП Ф2 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
ARED video setup
Fluid Shifts activation of Ultrasound equipment
Fluid Shifts scan – operator
Fluid Shifts Chibis
Replace battery pack in CDM
Configure CDM to record data by clearing Data Logger prior to use
Set up and activate CDM, then don CDM for CDM Crew Work Day Worn session
Chibis don
Fluid Shifts scan – subject
Chibis doff
Fluid Shifts photos
MELFI 3 Ice Brick Insert 2
Synthetic Muscle Historical Documentation Photography
HRF Generic Urine Collection Subject
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieve And Insertion Operations
EHS – Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Deployment Operations at LAB location
EHS GSF sampling
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Service Module Preparation
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Service Module Scan Operator
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Service Module Stow
Fluid Shifts HRF PC  And CCFP Service Module Setup
Thermal Container Chamber Closeout
MSPR Components Deactivation
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
ACE-H1 Cable Configuration
ACE-H1 Hardware Configuration
РК4 Installation of Video Monitor and Connecting it to Converter via cable
EHS Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
EVA EMU 3010 FPS R&R Tool Gather
FLUID SHIFTS. Disconnection & disassembly
PK-4 Video Monitor checkout
РК-4 Starting Pressurization and Pressure
Checkout of Vozdukh Atmosphere Purification System [СОА] using Control Panel
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve
Rodent Research Habitat Restock 1
Video Footage for Nauka 2.0 TV Channel
Water Refill Kit Review
JEM System Laptop Terminal Reboot
HRF Generic Urine Collection Subject
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Setup
Transfer Operations – Prepack of US items for return on 41S
Water Refill Kit Habitat H2O Fill
RGN Recycle Tank Fill

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


High Beta configuration

