
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction/Growth and Extinction Limit (CIR/SoFIE/GEL): The crew gained access to the CIR/SoFIE combustion area, reassembled the igniter arm, installed a sample, and replaced the combustion chamber seals. The igniter arm had been stuck in the log flow duct, and this is the final crew activity to resolve the issue. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the CIR that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. The GEL experiment studies burning in microgravity, measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. Results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques, improving crew safety in future space facilities.
Immunity Assay: Sample collection and processing were performed for an Immunity Assay science session, which spans multiple days. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a sample, with the help of a functional immune test. Until now, this test could only be accomplished on Earth, and conducted pre- and postflight. With the help of a newly developed assay tube, researchers can also execute this test inflight, which allows for a much clearer assessment of the immune changes that happen in flight.
ISS Ham: The crew supported an ISS Ham pass with high school students hosted at Mohammad Bin Rashid Space Centre (MBRSC), Dubai, UAE. In line with the UAE strategy to promote scientific research and support STEM community, MBRSC’s educational programs aim to instill a culture based on discovery and exploration in future generations of all education levels. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Space Health: The Space Health session continued, including exercise while wearing the Bio-Monitor sensor garment and answering the experiment questionnaire. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. The Artemis analytical platform is used to provide automated analysis of the cardiovascular system in order to develop a near real-time assessment tool. The potential use of the Bio-Monitor system and the Artemis platform for future space missions is being evaluated.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: In preparation for the ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) 1A/1B EVAs this month, the upcoming EVA briefing, procedures, timeline, tool configuration, Cribsheet, Cuff Checklist, Notes, Cautions, and Warnings (NCWs) and Task Data were reviewed. The crew also completed an EVA Procedure Conference.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Inspection: Today, the ISS crew completed regularly scheduled maintenance on the ARED Vibration Isolation System (VIS) Rails and Rollers, Upper Stop Cables, and X-Rotation Dashpots. The crew also provided feedback on ARED performance while the ARED Lift Bar was moving between Lower Stops and Upper Stops. This quarterly maintenance allows the ARED exercise device to keep operating nominally as well as verifying if any wear and tear exists on the hardware. Additionally, the ARED Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation was performed.
Emergency Review and Checkout: The crew practices and reviewed the Emergency Mask don/purge technique using ‘Training only’ Emergency Masks. A checkout of the VHF-1 Emergency Communication was performed from the USOS over US ground sites.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

ACS Nitrogen Leak Check
ACS Oxygen Leak Check
JEMRMS SFA Operations
EHDC Checkout

