
SpaceX (SpX)-11 Ingress and Unpack: Following yesterday’s successful capture, berthing, and ingress of SpX-11, today the crew began transferring payloads and cargo to the ISS. This multi-day process will result in the transfer of 3,900 pounds of science and cargo and the beginning of Fruit Fly Lab and Rodent Research later this week. 
Fruit Fly Lab-02 (FFL-02): The crew installed four Vented Fly Boxes with live flies into the Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL) incubator. The two remaining Vented Fly Boxes will remain in the cargo transfer bag they were flown up in and stowed in the Columbus Endcone for the duration of the experiment. The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster serves as a useful model organism for investigation of cellular and genetic mechanisms that can cause heart problems during spaceflight. Significant effects on numerous body systems have been identified as a result of spaceflight, including the cardiovascular, musculoskeletal, neuroendocrine, and immune systems.  The FFL-02 investigation compares flies that have hatched in space with flies grown on the ground to understand how prolonged spaceflight affects their heart function.
JAXA Area PADLES (Area Passive Dosimeter for Life-Science Experiments in Space):  The crew installed nine area dosimeters on Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) walls today. The JAXA Area PADLES investigation uses area dosimeters to continuously monitor the radiation dose onboard the ISS.  Radiation exposure can have significant biological effects on living organisms, including the biological investigations being done on ISS in the JEM. 
NanoRacks Module 9 Operations: The crew activated mixture tubes in support of NanoRacks Module 9 experiments for the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP) of the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education. The SSEP supports various schools and student-designed experiments that address challenges of living and working in space. The program is also a key initiative for U.S. science, technology, engineering and math (STEM), that strives to educate and inspire the next generation of scientists and engineers to work on the space program.
Cardiac Stem Cells:  In support of the Cardiac Stem Cell investigation, the crew changed out media for three BioCell Habitats in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  Cardiac Stem Cells investigates how microgravity affects stem cells and the factors that govern stem cell activity, in order to clarify the role of stem cells in cardiac biology and tissue regeneration.  This investigation also supports research into the possible acceleration of the aging process in microgravity. 
Robotic Operations in Support of SpX-11: Yesterday evening, Robotic Ground Controllers translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 4 (WS4) to WS6.  Next they ungrappled the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) from SpX-11 Dragon Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) and maneuvered it to unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2).  Finally, controllers configured the SSRMS and the SPDM for extraction of the Multiple User System for Earth Sensing (MUSES) payload from the Dragon trunk.  
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

IMS Update
Greetings Video Recording
URAGAN: Observation and Photography
ECON-M: Observation and Photography
Installation of Bel Air Access Point in SM.
Meteor Shutter Open
Dragon Ingress (Completed GMT 156)
Collecting air samples in SpX-11 using АК-1М sampler
24-hour ECG Recording
Dragon Arrival Photos
EHS Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
24-hour Blood Pressure Recording 
Transfer Dragon Center Stack
СОЖ Maintenance
Cold Stowage Double Coldbag
Fruit Fly Lab-02 Hardware Installation
Space Pup MELFI Insertion
Glacier 4 Sample Remove
WAP power off and Bel Air power on 
European Modular Cultivation System Cable Swap
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 8
Area Dosimeter Installation
Replacing ИК0501 СО2 Filter Unit
EHS Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
PCG-6 Hardware Photography
Testing Bel Air Access Point. RSE1 laptop and iPad No.7 connection setup.
Setup of Bel Air wireless users 
Seedling Growth-3 Transfer of Hardware from DCBs into Biolab TCUs
WAP power on 
Cardiac Stem Cells SABL Insertion
Science Box Installation
NanoRacks Module 9 Ops
Cardiac Stem Cells 1st Media Change 

Completed Task List Items

AC Dry Vacuum Debris Bag R&R (Completed GMT 156)
Sound Level Meter Measurements (Completed GMT 156)
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Battery Operations (Completed GMT 156)
Space Station Computer (SSC) 11 and 19 Deploy (Completed GMT 156)
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL) Unit Setup 

Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.

 Cargo transfer support

