
NanoRacks Module-70:  The crew removed NanoRacks Module-70 from a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) this morning and installed it into the Nanoracks Platform-2 in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM).  Module-70 is an educational research project designed to study the effects of radiation damage to synthetic DNA for gene regions that code for a human antibody. The experiment will make copies of the synthetic DNA samples at certain time-points during the mission using a technique called polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The DNA will be returned for study of strand break analysis. The experiment is from the Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT) School of Life Science in Beijing, China.
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  Two crewmembers checked water flow in each side of the four Animal Habitats and installed the Rodent Hut and Habitat Foodbars. The crew then transferred mice from the Transporters to the Habitats after performing animal health checks. Habitats were installed in Lab racks to complete the activity.  Spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system, therefore, it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight. 
NanoRacks Module-54 and Module-56:  The crew retrieved NanoRacks Module-54 and Module-56 from a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and installed them in Nanoracks Platform-1 in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM).
Algae can produce both fats and hydrogen which can each be used as fuel sources on Earth and potentially in space.  NanoRacks Module-54, also known as NanoRacks-National Design Challenge-Chatfield High School-The Effect of Microgravity on Two Strains of Biofuel Producing Algae with Implications for the Production of Renewable Fuels in Space Based Applications (NanoRacks-NDC-CHS-The Green Machine), studies two algae species to determine whether they still produce hydrogen and store fats while growing in microgravity.  Results from this student-designed investigation improve efforts to produce a sustainable biofuel in space, as well as remove carbon dioxide from crew quarters. 
Vermicomposting, or using worms to break down food scraps, is an effective way to reduce waste and obtain a nutrient-rich fertilizer for plants. NanoRacks Module-56, also known as NanoRacks-NDC-Bell Middle School-Efficiency of Vermicomposting in a Closed System (NanoRacks-NDC-BMS-Vermicomposting), is a student-designed project that studies whether red wiggler worms, a species of earthworm, are able to produce compost in space.  Results are used to study the potential for composting as a form of recycling on future long-duration space missions. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm 1 to extract the Multiple User System for Earth Sensing (MUSES) payload from the SpX-11 Dragon Trunk.  SPDM Arm1 and the SPDM Body were then maneuvered to stow the MUSES payload on the SPDM Enhanced Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Temporary Platform (EOTP). Finally, the SPDM was stowed on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2) and the SSRMS was maneuvered to a park position. 
Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew has completed ~8.5 hours of cargo transfer from Dragon to the ISS. Approximately13.5 hours of transfer remain to completely unload the vehicle.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Dosimeter Relocation
Test video recording for RT TV channel
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
NanoRacks Module-70 Removal from Glacier
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
NanoRacks Platform-2 Module-70 Install
Cable reconfiguration between SM panels 228 and 229А.
NanoRacks Module-54 and 56 MELFI Retrieve
NanoRacks Platform-1 Modules Install
On MCC Go Re-mating Vozdukh TLM-connectors
Cable reconfiguration between SM panels 228 and 229А.
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Rodent Research Transfer
Preventive Maintenance of FS1 Laptop
Monthly BRI Cleaning
NAPOR-mini RSA. Cleaning Onboard Memory Storage БЗУ-М vents
24-hour ECG Recording 
24-hour BP recording 
Rodent Research Animal Transfer
СОЖ Maintenance
IMS Update
High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Polar Desiccant Pack Swap and Shutdown

Completed Task List Items

Complete Transfer of Dragon Center Stack (Completed GMT 157)

Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.

Rodent Research video ops support 

