
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  Two crewmembers performed the first injection of the RR-5 mice in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  Spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system, therefore, it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Camera Robot:  The crew set up the JEM Camera Robot and installed a target marker on the JEM Airlock Inner Hatch.  This device is a free-flying camera robot that provides real time video downlink and photographs. It is expected to reduce the crew time requirements to support video recording of activities, especially at the blind spot of existing JEM internal cameras. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations in support of MUSES: Yesterday and overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to unstow the Multiple User System for Earth Sensing (MUSES) payload from the SPDM Enhanced Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Temporary Platform (EOTP) and install it on Express Logistic Carrier 4 (ELC4) Site 2.  Teams at Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) subsequently activated the MUSES payload successfully.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.

ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) weekly conference
Measuring Partial CO Pressure in RS using US portable CSA-CP device
TORU OBT
XF305 Camcorder Setup
JEM Camera Robot Setup
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
Long Duration Sorbent Testbed Status Check.
TReK Laptop Reconnect
Glacier 2  EXPRESS Rack Install
Glisser Go Pro Audit
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Termination
Charging GoPro camera batteries. Start charging 1st set
Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Rodent Research 5 Injection 1B
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 4
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 6
Rodent Research 5 Injection 1A
СОЖ maintenance
Charging GoPro camera batteries. Complete charging the 1st set and start changing the 2nd
Update the Passphrase on BelAir Russian Wireless Devices in RS
Charging GoPro camera batteries. Complete charging the 2nd set

Completed Task List Items

 Dragon Cargo Transfer

Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.

Rodent Research ops support 

