06-05-2010June 05, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/05/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – Crew off duty.   At wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   At day’s begin, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson continued her current 4-day session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), her 3rd onboard run, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 4 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]   Also at wake-up, FE-2 completed another session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   The three residents performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   FE-3 Kornienko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].   FE-3 also performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.   An additional task for Misha in the SM was the routine weekly inspection of the SVO SRV-K2M (Condensate Water Processor) hoses from the MF-R Diaphragm Separator Filter to the BRPK Condensate Separation & Pumping Unit.   Caldwell-Dyson performed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) laptops.   Later, Tracy set up the video equipment, focused on the PCS C&W (Portable Computer System Caution & Warning) display page with a NetMeeting conference downlink to MCC-Houston via Ku-band.      [Purpose: to allow MCC-H to monitor ISS status during an extended (7-hr) LOS (Loss of Signal) period planned tonight at 6:00pm-1:00am EDT.  The ISS service outage involves the IPS MDSC (Integrated Planning System Mission Data Server Computer) for necessary upgrade work (installation of firmware on the 16-port MDSC fiber database servers). During the outages, all IPS Mission Data Server (IPS home directories) will be unavailable, i.e. no Long Term Planning updates or OSTPV (Onboard Short Term Plan Viewer) updates, no S-band CMD (Command), TLM (Telemetry), voice, etc.  MCC-H & POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center/Huntsville) will still have Ku-band telemetry, video, and OCA capability, and RS (Russian Segment) ground sites will still be available.  In the unlikely event that the crew would need to contact Houston, they can use Russian UKV (VHF), IP Phone, or NetMeeting.]    Tracy transferred two new uplinked CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation) protocols to her PCMCIA memory card, as per her request to her ASCR (Astronaut Strength, Conditioning, & Rehabilitation) specialist.   Following up on the earlier detection of metal shavings in the MRM1 Rassvet module, CDR Skvortsov was to perform an inspection of the MRM1 hatch screen, taking photographs for subsequent downlink and cleaning the screen with the vacuum cleaner if shavings or foreign materials were found.    Before her sleeptime, Tracy will set up the equipment for her next 24-hour urine collections of the Generic HRF (Human Research Facility) urine sampling protocol.      [Based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV (International Procedures Viewer) capabilities, the generic blood & urine procedures were created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]   At ~9:10am, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   Tracy, Misha & Sasha completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).   Jobs listed for Skvortsov & Kornienko for today on the Russian discretionary “as time permits” task list were –  Another run of the GFI-8 "Uragan"      (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D2X digital camera      photography with 800mm telelens (targets: detailed photography of the      Caucasus tallest mountain peaks; estuary of Terek; oil slicks in the      Caspian Sea; oil slick in the Gulf of Mexico), A photography session for      the DZZ-13      “Seiner”      ocean observation program, obtaining data on oceanic water blooms in the      waters of North-West Africa, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, and A session for Russia's EKON Environmental      Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of      environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera.   SM Reboost Update:    As per plan, a one-burn ISS reboost was conducted last night at 11:20pm EDT using SM main propulsion, i.e., its two main engines.  Performance was nominal.  Burn duration: 4 min 7 sec; delta-V: 4.5 m/s/14.76 ft/s (predicted 4.36 m/s/14.30 ft/s).  Mean altitude gain:  7.79 km/4.21 nmi (predicted  7.55 km/4.07 nmi).  Purpose: set up orbital phasing for both Soyuz 23S & Progress 38P launch/dock conditions.  Progress Reboosts:  Two more reboost maneuvers, this time by Progress 37P, will be conducted on 6/7 (Monday), one orbit apart, to fine-tune phasing for both 23S Soyuz & 38P Progress launch conditions.  Reboost 1: TIG (Time of      Ignition) – 7:55pm EDT; burn duration: 9m 40s; delta-V: 0.8 m/s;   Reboost 2: TIG –      9:26pm; burn duration: 7m 15s; delta-V: 0.6 m/s.   Mean altitude increase      after both burns: 2.55 km/1.38 nmi.   Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Three -- Week 11)  3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    This ISS backup radiation monitoring system remains non-operational.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    “Successful replacement of the BIOLAB isolation filters.  We will thank TJ and Soichi for their great job during Inc 22-23 as soon as we meet them on ground!”   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   FE-5 performed a session on 5/14.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):     “TJ, thank you for completing another session of BISE.”  BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    Returned with 19A.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    “On 6/2, the CIR team powered up the HiBMS DCM for the first time since its replacement.  We successfully completed a ping test, files transfers and a functional test with the replacement DCM.  However, when we attempted to run science test points, the DCM was shut down due to the CIR internal status monitor detecting a low temperature condition with the DCM telemetry. This is understood to be invalid telemetry. The CIR team is investigating the appropriate response for this condition.”  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    CSLM-2 installed in the MSG on 5/31.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    The active DOSTEL detectors continue to acquire science data.  Monthly data downlink completed on 5/28.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):     Water pump servicing performed on 5/13.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):    No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    Performed on 5/1 as VolSci.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  Ferulate:    Cell culture started on 5/27, and completed on 6/2 (sample collection was conducted three times in different number of cultivation days) . All sample was stored into JAXA Jettison Stowage Bag properly. MMA date DL for this experiment also completed.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):    No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    FSL VMU troubleshooting activity on-going at time of writing.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    2nd Hair sampling for FE-6 was performed on 5/13.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):   HREP is operating nominally and 1093 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    No report.   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    “Thank you Tracy (and Oleg) for your help in troubleshooting this instrument.  No joy unfortunately… ESA had to de-manifest the PADIAC experiment, planned with 23S launch. Ground team are now working the manifest of spare parts to continue the troubleshooting.”  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    Performed the 10th run successfully (by ground commanding) on 4/17-4/18.  Matryoshka-2:    Acquiring science data.  Marangoni UVP:    14th run was started on 6/2.  15th is planned on 6/3.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE7 (Materials ISS Experiment):   MISSE7 is operating nominally.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.   MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    Last CETSOL cartridge returned with ULF4 and shipped to Europe. One MICAST cartridge returned with ULF4 and shipped to Europe.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   No report.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.   NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADIAK:    Experiment has to be postponed due to KUBIK-3 anomaly.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):   Dosimeter set-up performed on FD12 of ULF4.  Photo session was performed on 5/27 from Task List.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    Data downlink completed on 5/28 and received well on-ground.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    Sample launched by 36P; was recovered by 21S.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   No report.   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    A CGSE/CBEF CO2 leak check has been completed.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Tracy, the data from the last Actiwatch download came down last Friday and everything looks good.  The next monthly Actiwatch download is scheduled for next week.  During this session you will be downloading TJ's stowed Actiwatch and downloading and initializing your own Actiwatch.”  SMILES (JAXA):    SLOC (submillimeter local oscillator controller) troubleshooting is underway.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    The Sun observation window#29 has started on 6/01.  Science measurements have been impacted by the 21S undocking and the troubleshooting of an IGS Rack.  Minor impact (12 orbits lost).  The current Sun observation window is predicted to end on 6/13.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.   Space-DRUMS:    No report.    SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Thank you, Tracy, for this second flawless session of THERMOLAB !”   TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):     “On 6/1, the ERNO Box has been powered up nominally, in advance of the commissioning phase of VESSEL ID receiver. On 6/3, the commissioning / check-out of the receiver has been started, and will continue until 6/4 – so far so good…”   VO2max (NASA):    “Tracy, thank you very much for your patience and hard work on VO2max on 6/3!  Thank you very much for the video as well; the team and crew surgeon appreciate the extra information it provides.  We plan to have a new procedure for your next session that will eliminate the need to switch procedures for certain steps.  We also are updating the Big Picture words to reflect some recent updates to the pre-test food and caffeine constraints.  The next session is currently targeted for 3 weeks from now.  Walker and Wheelock will also be subjects in VO2max and your experience will definitely be of great help to them!”  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    All the Experiment Containers (ECs) have been returned with ULF4 and shipped to Europe for post-flight analysis.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   Through 6/2, the ground has received a total of 42,872 frames of CEO imagery for review and cataloging.  Through 6/3, the ground has already received 47 frames for review and cataloging from Increment 24.  “We are pleased to report that a few frames have been acquired of the Rabat, Morocco target.  However, we will continue to request additional imagery of this target that is better centered and less oblique.  Your imagery acquired during the time of your pass for the Megafan SW Algeria target is still under evaluation, but appears to be too cloudy.  We will likely request this one again as well.  This past weekend we published your amazing view of city lights at night, near the French-Italian border, on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website.  This beautiful regional view includes the cities of Lyon and Marseille, France as well as Torino, Italy and Geneva, Switzerland.  However, the soft, fabulous reflection of the nearly full moon on the northwestern Mediterranean Sea makes this photo a stand-out.  Kudos to the alert crew for this remarkable shot!”   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Foelsche Impact Crater, North Australia (the Foelsche impact crater is a challenging target, so the crew was recommended to begin with a mapping pass along the orbit track.  The crater is 6 km in diameter and has been dated at greater than 545 million years.  It appears as a ringed structure with slightly contrasting colors as compared to the surrounding region.  The crater is located near its namesake, the Foelsche river.  ISS had a nadir pass), Brussels, Belgium (Brussels is the largest urban area in Belgium as well as the capital city.  Over 1.8 million people live in the city.  Looking slightly right of track), Volga - Ural Delta (the Volga is the longest river in Europe.  It drains much of western Russian and empties into the Caspian Sea. Since 1978, the Caspian Sea level has risen over 2 meters, submerging valuable wetland habitats.  Shallow coastlines like the Volga delta are especially sensitive to sea level rise.  Taking broad context views of the delta, which should have appeared left of track.  These kinds of images will be used to document coastal changes), Cairo, Egypt (Cairo is the capital city of Egypt, and is the largest city in Africa.  It is also one of the most densely populated cities in the world, with an estimated population of 6.8 million people living in the city, and an estimated 10 million living outside the city proper.  Documenting land use and urban boundaries.  This was a nadir pass), and Mexico City, Mexico (Mexico City is the capital and largest city in Mexico.  It is located in a large valley, bounded on its southeastern edge by the volcanoes Popocatepetl and Iztaccihuatl.  The 2009 estimated population of the city proper exceeds 8.84 million.  The Mexico City metropolitan area population is 21.2 million people, making it the largest metropolitan area in the Americas and the third largest in the world. Noting land use and urban boundaries).  