
Payloads:
Astrobee: The JEM was prepared for the Integrated System for Autonomous and Adaptive Caretaking (ISAAC 9) crew-minimal activity later in the week. In this activity, JPM lighting was adjusted as appropriate, the Astrobee dock was power-cycled, Astrobee free-fliers were powered on, and software was updated. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
AstroRad Vest: A series of Range of Motion (ROM) tests were performed with and without the AstroRad Vest donned. Comfort and Human Factors AstroRad Radiation Garment Evaluation (CHARGE) tests a special vest designed to protect astronauts from radiation caused by unpredictable Solar Particle Events (SPEs). Astronauts provide input on the garment as they wear it while performing daily tasks, including how easy it is to put on, how it fits and feels, and the range of motion it allows. Garment developers can use this input to improve design, and the use of the vest will protect crew members on missions to the Moon and Mars.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (CIR/ACME): In a conclusion of the activity started last week, obsolete ACME hardware was located, consolidated, and prepared for return or trash. The ACME series of experiments have been performed, and the ACME insert previously removed from the CIR to make room for the currently installed experiment insert known as the Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE). CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station (NutrISS): In support of the NutrISS investigation, an ESA Nutritional Assessment (ENA) was performed. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. It is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein, intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss.
Wireless Compose-2: The crew participated in a Ballistocardiography session while wearing the SmartTex-2 shirt. Ballistocardiography looks at body motion related to the pumping of blood by the heart. Photos were also taken while wearing the SmartTex-2 shirt and a questionnaire was filled out.  The main scientific goal of the Wireless Communication Network (Wireless Compose-2) investigation is to provide a flexible and adaptable wireless network infrastructure to conduct and execute low-power, low-weight, and wireless experiments on the ISS. For this demonstration, Wireless Compose-2 operates several experiments, including an experiment to examine the impact of the space environment on the cardiovascular system. Additionally, Wireless Compose-2 demonstrates newly developed impulse radio ultra-wide band (IR-UWB) hardware to enable precise localization applications and to analyze the energy harvesting potential on the ISS.
Systems:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Slider Track Remove & Replace (R&R): Today, the crew performed an R&R of the ARED slider house assembly and slider assembly within the load adjustment unit. ARED’s primary goal is to maintain muscle strength and mass in astronauts during long periods in space. ARED uses the resistance from vacuum cylinders along with a flywheel system to simulate free-weight exercises in normal gravity.
Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: As part of Station’s standard system health monitoring, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through ventilation inlets and outlets in the Airlock, Node1, Cupola, and Beam modules. The IMV system circulates air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that ideal atmospheric condition is maintained throughout ISS.
Hatch Seal Inspection: As part of periodic maintenance, the crew cleaned and inspected the USOS hatch seals and hatch plate sealing surface for the Lab aft and forward hatches. The crew also inspected the crank handle Mechanism and hatch seal interlocking joints for foreign object debris (FOD) or damage. Due to a buildup of food on the surface, the crew will need to come back and complete the cleaning and inspection on the hatch.
Cupola Window #7 Scratch Pane Installation: Today, the crew removed the original Scratch Pane installed on Cupola Window #7 and replaced it with a new Acrylic Scratch Pane. The scratch pane protects the Cupola window while maximizing optical purity.
Remote Power Control Modules (RPCM) P12B_C RPC 5 Swap: On Friday May 27, RPCM P12B_C RPC 5 which powers multiple channels of the Port Thermal Radiator (PTR) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) Solenoid Driver Output (SDO) Card tripped. The primary impact was the loss of power to the two Integrated Motor/Controller Assemblies (IMCAs) which controls the Port 1-2 radiator isolation valves. Today, ground teams robotically started to swap RPCM P12B_C with RPCM P11A_A to return isolation capability to protect for the loss of the External Thermal Control System (ETCS) system in the event of a Port 1-2 radiator leak to space. The RPCM swap activity will continue through tomorrow morning.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

RPCM P12B_C R&R Ops [In Work]
Crew Dragon Quiescent Checkout
FBCE Degas Commanding

