
Payloads 
High-Definition Television (HDTV) Camera Removal:  The crew removed the HDTV hardware from the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table and stowed it.  This is a continuation of the ops needed to prepare for the installation of the external JAXA integrated Standard Imager for Microsatellites (iSIM) experiment later this week. iSIM is a high-resolution optical binocular telescope developed by SATLANTIS. The objective of this experiment is to demonstrate the technology, and its functionality, in the low-Earth orbit environment.
Hourglass-SD Swap: As a continuation of the data downlink for Hourglass run 2, the crew swapped out secure digital (SD) memory cards.  JAXA’s Hourglass investigation examines the relationship between gravity and the behavior of granular materials such as regolith that covers the surface of planets and planetary-like bodies. Researchers observe various granular materials inside an hourglass and a measuring cylinder under different gravity conditions. Better understanding of the behavior of these materials supports the design of spacecraft for future missions landing on the surfaces of planets and other celestial bodies.
Systems 
Treadmill (T2) Maintenance: Over the weekend, the crew began work to remove and replace (R&R) the T2 Data Avionics Unit (DAU). During the maintenance a stuck Node 3 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Quick Disconnect (QD) resulted in an ITCS leak of approximately 1.5 liters which resulted in a Node 2 ITCS shutdown. The ground team was able to recover cooling within 45 minutes. Although the crew made significant progress on the T2 DAU R&R activities this weekend, several closeout activities still remain and T2 remains non-operational. The remaining activities to recover T2 will be incorporated into the timeline this week. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Airlock Unstow: In preparation for the upcoming S6 battery EVAs tentatively scheduled at the end of the month, the crew relocated hardware not needed for the upcoming EVA and prepared the Airlock to support EVA operations.
Emergency Communication Verification: Today the crew performed an emergency communication checkout from the US segment using the Very High Frequency (VHF)-1 comm system over US ground sites. During the ground site pass, the crew conducted a comm check with each center in Houston, Huntsville, Munich, Tsukuba, and Moscow. VHF-1 provides the emergency back-up for ISS to ground communication. Due to the rarity of using the VHF system over the US ground sites, emergency VHF comm verifications offer the only means of assuring the end-to-end VHF systems, equipment and personnel are operational and ready to support an emergency. 
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)9 Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued to perform HTV9 cargo transfer operations.  Ground teams estimate ~8 hours of cargo operation remain to unload the vehicle. 
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Operations: Today the crew performed a drain of the Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Recycle Tank to an available liquid waste container (ЕДВ-У). Once the Recycle Tank drain was complete, the crew performed a visual check of the Recycle Tank quantity indicator to verify it was indicating empty. The crew then reconfigured the Recycle Tank valves to the “Fill” configuration and transferred the contents of a full ЕДВ-У to the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Waste Water Storage Tank (WSTA). Finally, the crew configured the UPA drain/fill valves to “process” so the pre-treated urine can be processed by the UPA. 
Completed Task List Activities:

EMU Long Life Battery (LLB) Terminate
EVA Sublimator Briefing
PMM1P4 Trash Fill

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


GNC PPL Update
ATS PPL Update
Recycle Tank Drain
VS leak limit commanding

