
Payloads
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE) Module photos:  The crew took images of 4 ACE modules (ACE-T4, ACE-T11, and 2 ACE-T-Ellipsoid modules).  This was performed to determine the viability of the various samples in these modules so order of operations can be planned accordingly.  ACE modules are processed in the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR)/Light Microscopy Module (LMM).  Briefly, ACE-T4 looks at ordered/disordered particle systems, ACE-T11 studies the design and assembly of 3 dimensional structures from colloids, and ACE-T-Ellipsoids studies design and assembly of complex three-dimensional colloids.
Electrolysis Measurement (EM): The crew installed the EM experiment hardware in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and the investigation was initiated.  Electrolytic Gas Evolution Under Microgravity (Electrolysis Measurement) examines the influence of gravity on electrolytic gas evolution, a complex electrochemical process with multiple applications on Earth and in space. For example, electrolysis generates bubbles that can be used to create pressure differentials in microfluidic devices, such as skin patches, used to deliver medications.  Microgravity makes it possible to single out bubble growth and study its effect on the process.
Hourglass-SD swap: As a continuation of the data downlink for Hourglass run 2, the crew swapped out secure digital (SD) memory cards.  JAXA’s Hourglass investigation examines the relationship between gravity and the behavior of granular materials such as regolith that covers the surface of planets and planetary-like bodies. Researchers observe various granular materials inside an hourglass and a measuring cylinder under different gravity conditions. Better understanding of the behavior of these materials supports the design of spacecraft for future missions landing on the surfaces of planets and other celestial bodies.
Plant Habitat-02: The crew reviewed the appropriate procedures, gathered hardware, and set up the maintenance work area (MWA) in preparation for the Plant Hab-02 facility work later this week.  Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants.
Systems 
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collection: The crew collected water samples from the PWD for in-flight and post-flight analysis. Collections are performed multiple times throughout the increment to verify water quality. During the in-flight analysis today, the crew noticed the session had terminated with indications the PWD sample bag was under-filled. The crew verified the sample bag was appropriately filled. Ground team will continue to assess to determine the cause of the termination. The sample bag is valid for a day so analysis may be delayed if the issue is resolved prior to tomorrow.
ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization Onboard Training (OBT): The crew completed the Emergency Hardware OBT which is designed to familiarize the crew with the locations of equipment and the positions of valves used in emergencies as well as practice communication from the Russian Segment (RS) modules in case of emergency. 
Emergency Mask Procedure Review On-Board Training (OBT): The crew reviewed and practiced the emergency mask don/purge technique for an ammonia leak scenario. This is nominal training to maintain crew proficiency using emergency masks.
Completed Task List Activities:

LAB1P6 CCAA MFCV and Gas Trap Inspection
Microgravity Science Glovebox Video Camera Lens Check

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Nitrogen Repress
JEM RMS Ops Ground Support
Node 3 MCA Full Calibration
SSRMS Walkoff to MBS4
MT Translate from WS5 to WS7

