06-08-2011June 08, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/08/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      Soyuz TMA-02M/27S launched last evening on time at 4:13pm EDT, with Sergei Volkov (Russia, ISS-28/29 Flight Engineer, Soyuz 27S CDR), Michael Fossum (USA, ISS-28 FE, ISS-29 CDR), and Satoshi Furukawa (Japan, ISS-28/29 FE).  Docking at MRM1 Rassvet module (at FGB) will be tomorrow at ~5:22pm EDT.    >>>This is the 113th mission to the ISS.  With the first launch of the FGB “Zarya” module on a Proton-K (1A/R) on 11/20/1998, there have been a total of 36 US missions, 73 Russian missions, 2 European missions (ATV-1, ATV-2) and 2 Japanese missions (HTV1, HTV2).  See http://www.nasa.gov/directorates/somd/reports/iss_assembly_progress.html for Assembly Progress.  The spacecraft is the new-series (digital avionics) Soyuz version. <<<  CDR Borisenko terminated his 3rd experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  FE-3 Ron Garan started his first 24-hr urine collections of the Generic HRF (Human Research Facility) urine sampling protocol, taking samples several times for MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) sample storage.      [Based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV (International Procedures Viewer) capabilities, the generic blood & urine procedures for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.] Working in the FGB, FE-1 Samokutyayev performed maintenance on the ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System), removing & replacing the SPN VGK1-2 Hydraulic Loop Replaceable Pump Panel (with micropumps 3N1 & 3N2), stowing the removed panel and updating the IMS (Inventory Management System). Also in the FGB, Aleksandr performed maintenance on the GIVUS (Guidance Navigation & Control, GN&C system), replacing the automatic switch for the AP-1M (A18) Angular Rate Measuring Device. Borisenko configured the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted a test session the 1h5m session, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.       [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic & physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.] In the SM (Service Module), the CDR dismantled the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation hardware at window #9 used yesterday for a run observing Earth’s surface & measuring Earth emission layer radiance in the atmosphere.      [Using the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka-MV-Kosmos” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and SONY HVR-Z7 HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from windows #9 & #6, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.] Afterwards, Andrey worked on the new Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, checking out the equipment setup and connections (after the ground had received false humidity sensor readings), and then uploaded new software for the LADA application on the RSK2 T61p laptop., supported by ground specialist tagup via S-band.     [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the  LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]  “Spiderman” Ron Garan also serviced the CGBA-5 Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5) with its CSI (Science Insert), deactivating & decabling CGBA-5, accessing CSI-05, performing spider feeding activity, closing up CGBA, recabling and reactivating it.      [SHAB (Spider Hab) video is monitoring for 24 hours after feeding activity unit.  The spider is called the Nephila clavipes.  It is also known as the “Banana Spider” because of its yellow banana shaped body.  It is sometimes referred to as the “Golden Silk” or “Golden Orb” spider because its web has a golden hue when viewed in the sunlight.  It is commonly found in the southern parts of the US, particularly Florida, but it can be found throughout all parts of the southern United States including Alabama and Texas.  The two spiders in the habitats are juvenile females and are only about ½ in. long.  When female Nephila clavipes complete their last molt and become mature adults, they can be over 3 in. long and their webs over 3 ft across.  (Unfortunately, these space spiders will most likely not live until adulthood nor will they get quite that large).  To keep the spiders as healthy as possible for as long as possible, they are given a diet of wild type fruit flies.  The fruit flies are provided a diet enriched with extra protein.  The protein is ground-up dog food that is added to their normal diet of potato flakes.  The spider scientists are interested in the Nephila clavipes because she builds a three-dimensional web on the ground that appears disorganized but is in fact very ordered.  The hypothesis is these spiders will not build as much 3 dimension into their web given the absence of gravity.  This may help scientists more clearly understand the purpose of the 3D web on Earth.]  Next, Garan conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks). Other activities completed by Ron Garan included –The periodic evacuation of the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition & sensor calibration,The periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose   [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged],Reconfiguring the LEHX HRDL (Layer 2 Ethernet Hub & Multiplexer High Rate Definition Line) by switching a cable connection on the patch panel in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) for nominal operations,Deactivating temporarily, in support of ER2 (EXPRESS Rack 2) activities, the Shield dosimetry data collection by the ALTEA (Anomalous Long Term Effects on Astronauts) payload and later re-activating it,Terminating the regeneration of METOX (Metal Oxide) canisters #0013 & #0022, started yesterday In the A/L (Airlock), and later initiating the process on METOX cans #0007 & #0011  [recyclable METOX canisters replaced the old one-way/expendable LiOH (lithium hydroxide) canisters as carbon dioxide (CO2) removal system in the EMU/spacesuits in 2001.  During use, CO2 is absorbed by them and later removed through a special valve opening by “baking” (heating), which takes place in a special oven in the A/L],Continuing his support of the ongoing SSC laptop transition to/reloading with software v.4 (SSCV4) activities,   [today connecting SSC-17 to the JSL (Joint Station LAN) via RF (wireless) Ethernet in Node-3 for the ground to verify settings, rebooting SSC-19 for the ground to finish its final configuration, and printing out the new crew NINJA (Network Information for JSL Administration) password document.  As of last night, 15 of the 21 SSC clients have been successfully transitioned for nominal use, while additional troubleshooting was to be performed on the remaining 6 clients],More Progress 42P cargo items unpacking from Node-1 to their final locations,Preparing crew provisions for arriving Soyuz 27S crewmembers Mike Fossum & Satoshi Furukawa by moving their personal clothing & equipment from the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) to their assigned lockers   [to make room, Cady’s old items were to be relocated or trashed, and Ron was to verify that Paolo’s & Cady’s ULF7 return bags are in PMM],Building a spare EDV container for future use in the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment from an EDV cover & bucket with tools like screwdriver, hatchet & wrench, andThe weekly health check of the O2 sensor in CSA-O2 (Compound Specific Analyzer-Oxygen) #1045, which has exceeded its shelf life,  [the health check had to be performed from COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) since both MCAs (Major Constituency Analyzers) are currently down, i.e., unavailable for calibration, while  the COL PPOS (Partial Pressure Oxygen Sensor) could be used for comparison]. With its battery freshly charged overnight, Samokutyayev used the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware at SM window #9 during a one-hour segment, taking pictures of targets along the flight track, including North America & USA, coastal zone and water areas of the Gulf of Mexico, the island of Cuba, coastal zone and water areas of the Caribbean, plus South America with Venezuela.      [The FSS (Fotospektralnaya sistema) consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module.  FSS includes the ME Electronics Module & MRI Image Recording Module.  The FSS battery was set up for charging last night.] Both CDR & FE-1 completed another data collection session for the psychological program MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”), accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was Sasha’s 5th, Andrey’s 4th onboard session with MBI-16.      [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.] Samokutyayev conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Later, Sasha also took care of the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Before sleep time, Alex will prepare the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his 3rd experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] At ~10:05am EDT, Ron Garan had his weekly PMC (Private Medical Conference) via S- & Ku-band audio/video. The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1).  No second session reported for FE-3. Jobs listed for Samokutyayev & Borisenko today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –Auditing/inventorying all onboard SFOG (Solid Fuel Oxygen Generator) candles,Repacking 9 full-size CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) in the RS (Russian Segment) for transfer to the ATV2 for disposal as per USOS agreement, andPreparing & downlinking more reportages (text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb). CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Dodoma, Tanzania (some patchy clouds may have been present in the Dodoma region.  The city presents little contrast with its surroundings, but is located directly to the north of a grouping of small dark hills.  The crew was asked to begin to acquire nadir-viewing mapping frames as they approached and then passed over the target), Luanda, Angola (looking to the right of track for this major coastal city and capital of Angola.  It appears as a large lighter-toned [de-vegetated] zone, inshore of protecting barrier islands), Popocatepetl Volcano, Mexico (Mexico's second highest peak [17,802 feet] is a large, active volcano located 43 miles southeast of Mexico City.   Mapping frames of the volcano and flanks were requested to capture current summit glacier extent and cone geomorphology), and Ampato Glaciers, Peru (this tiny group of glaciers is located on the summits of Sierra Ampato as well as several nearby volcanic peaks about 100 to 150 miles west of Lake Titicaca.  These ice fields and glaciers have been rapidly retreating in recent years.  Requested was a continuous mapping strip at nadir to acquire context views of this target area). Soyuz TMA-02M/27S:    Onboard systems of the spacecraft, headed for the ISS, are reported to operate nominally.  Docking at the ISS MRM1 Rassvet module is scheduled for tomorrow evening at ~5:22pm EDT (6/10, ~1:22am, Moscow Time).  As per report from RSC-Energia, Soyuz TMA-02M is the second spacecraft in a new series modified from the basic TMA spacecraft.  The first spacecraft in this series was launched on 10/8/2010.  Purpose, mission and key performance data of the new-series spacecraft are the same as for the generic spacecraft.  The upgrades that have been introduced are part of the ongoing development of a new-generation manned transportation spacecraft.  Flight certification of new devices and equipment installed onboard the new-series spacecraft will enable appropriate decision making with respect to the new-generation manned transportation spacecraft. Timeline Summary (all times EDT): Today – 4:53:10pm:  Rendezvous  maneuver DV3 (dV: 6.6 fps) Tomorrow –2:00:00pm:  Handover ISS US to RS attitude control system/thrusters2:05:00pm:  ISS maneuver to docking attitude2:07:00pm:  FGB KURS-P rendezvous system activation3:01:41pm:  Start of automated rendezvous phase (AR&D)3:22:30pm:  AR&D DV-4/Impulse 1 (dV: 46.4 fps)3:45:46pm:  AR&D Impulse 2 (dV: 4.5 fps)3:48:00pm:  Soyuz KURS-A rendezvous system activation3:50:00pm:  SM KURS-P activation4:08:00pm:  AR&D DV-5/Impulse 3 (dV: 55.7 fps)4:09:21pm:  Range = 62 miles: Soyuz VHF-2 voice link4:13:21pm:  Range = 49.7 miles: Valid KURS-P range data4:34:01pm:  Range = 9.3 miles: KURS-A & KURS-P short test4:39:41pm:  Range = 5.6 miles: Soyuz TV activation4:58:12pm:  Start of Flyaround mode5:06:00pm:  Start of Stationkeeping5:11:00pm:  Start of Final Approach5:11:00pm:  ISS inertial snap-and-hold window open5:16:14pm:  Orbital sunset5:22:00pm:  DOCKING (Rassvet). 