
Payloads
Combustion Integration Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (CIR/ACME):  In support of the on-going s-Flame part 2 investigation, the crew removed a 45% H2/ 55% He fuel bottle and replaced it with a 45% CH4/ 55% He fuel bottle.  The purpose of s-Flame is to advance our ability to predict the structure and dynamics, including extinction and instabilities, of both soot-free and sooty flames. The results may contribute to the development of lean-burn engines for improved efficiency and reduced pollutant emissions here on Earth.  S-Flame is one of five experiments hosted by CIR/ACME which is designed to study gaseous flames.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF):  The crew retrieved sample cartridge 3 from the ELF, cleaned the sample cartridge, installed sample holder 2, and then reassembled everything into the ELF. This sample installation was in support of the NASA Round Robin experiment.  The Round Robin – Thermophysical Property Measurement (Round Robin) investigation provides researchers with a better understanding of how to measure liquid metal properties to revolutionize how process modeling can support design, flight qualification and production of advanced spaceflight systems.
Electrolysis Measurement (EM): In support of the ongoing EM experiment, the crew performed a series of sample exchanges.  The experiment is expected to process 30 samples over the next several weeks.  Electrolytic Gas Evolution Under Microgravity (Electrolysis Measurement) examines the influence of gravity on electrolytic gas evolution, a complex electrochemical process with multiple applications on Earth and in space. For example, electrolysis generates bubbles that can be used to create pressure differentials in microfluidic devices, such as skin patches, used to deliver medications. Microgravity makes it possible to single out bubble growth and study its effect on the process. 
Plant Habitat-02: The crew disassembled the Plant Habitat Facility, removed a faulty Environmental Control System (ECS) and attempted to install a replacement ECS.  Unfortunately, they experienced a failure of a backing plate which is part of a locking mechanism and the new ECS could not be installed.  Plant Hab-02 was returned to a safe configuration and the ground teams are assessing a forward plan.  This is part of a series of activities to get the facility ready for samples currently launching on NG-14.  Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants.
Systems
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)9 Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued to perform HTV9 cargo transfer operations.  Ground teams estimate ~18 hours of cargo operation remain to unload the vehicle. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Secondary Oxygen Pack (SOP) Changeout: Today the crew performed a changeout of the SOP on EMU 3006 which included a checkout of the new SOP following installation. The replacement was part of standard maintenance to the unit. The Secondary Oxygen Pack (SOP) provides oxygen for breathing, ventilation, pressurization, and cooling in the event of a malfunction of the Primary Oxygen Tanks or a suit leak.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


CIR Ground Support
UHF-2 Activation
Ground Support for Robotics Battery Getaheads

