
Cognition Test Battery Operations: The crew completed pre-test questions and a battery of cognitive tests with performance feedback. Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Blood and Urine Collection: The crew collected blood and urine samples and stowed them into Minus Eighty-degree Freezer for ISS (MELF).  These sample collections will be used to support the following HRP investigations:

Biochem Profile tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. Biosamples are archived for use as a resource for future space flight related research.
Cardio Ox determines whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts.

 
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PBRE) Lab Video Setup: The crew set up a video Camcorder for over-the-shoulder view of the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) high definition (HD) Monitor for the ground to view the water separator. The PBRE will be used to study the behavior of gases and liquids when they flow simultaneously through a column filled with fixed porous media. The porous media or “packing” can be made of different shapes and materials and are used widely in chemical engineering to enhance the contact between two immiscible fluid phases (e.g., liquid-gas, water-oil). Packed columns can serve as reactors, scrubbers, strippers, etc. in systems where efficient interphase contact is desired, both on Earth and in space.
 
Marrow Setup: In preparation for the Marrow Breath and Ambient Air Sample operations planned for tomorrow, today the crew prepared and temp stowed the Marrow air sample collection hardware in the crew quarters. The hardware will be used to take breath as well as ambient air samples immediately after crew wake tomorrow. The Marrow investigation studies the effect of microgravity on human bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
 
Dose Tracker: The crew completed entries for medication tracking. This investigation documents the medication usage of crew members before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
 
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet were completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation.  This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
 
Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM) Sensor Installation: Sensor installation Parts A and B were completed yesterday. Today the crew assembled and tested the Distributed Impact Detection System (DIDS) Kits C and D, then assembled and affixed Wireless Temperature system (WTS) Kits C and D. They also deployed six Radiation Area Monitors (RAMs) throughout BEAM and photo documented each deployment location.
 
ISS Reboost: At 9:00 AM CDT today, the ISS performed a reboost using 63P R&D thrusters which set up for 45S landing and 47S 34-orbit rendezvous. Delta-V was 0.45 meters/second with a burn duration of 3 minutes, 59 seconds.
 
Node 1/ Airlock VAP modification:  The Node 1/ Airlock Vacuum Access Panel which was installed last week failed an 8 hour leak check overnight.  The crew checked connections and the leak check is being repeated tonight.
 
Crew Departure Preparations: The 45S crew packed personal items to be returned, and trashed unwanted items in preparation for return to Earth on June 18. They also had a conference with Russian specialists.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

KORREKTSIYA. Logging in fluids and food (medications) intake / r/g 2448
FINEMOTR. Assistance during the Experiment
Filling in (Separation) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV
DOSETRK. Data Entry
HRF. Urine Samples Collection
ARED Footplate Partial Fold
BEAM. Hatch Removal and Ingress
Filling in Section 2 of DC1 Progress 431 Supply System with Nitrogen
Preparation of Hardware for Return and Disposal by Soyuz 719 / r/g 2374, 2446
Air Samples Collection with [АК-1М] Samler during BEAM Ingress  r/g 2442, 2467
HRF. Samples Insertion into MELFI
СОЖ Maintenance
VCA1 Camcorder Setup
Gathering Tools to Install VDPU Harness
BEAM. Sensors and Internal Cables Assembly. Part С
Rotation of ETC Rack Down
On MCC Go Collection of Atmospheric Moisture Condensate [КАВ] from [СРВ-К2М] r/g 2477
Support of the Rotation of ETC Rack Down
Installation of VDPU Harness
Acoustic Dosimeters Installation, Day 2
Closing of the Shutters of Windows #6, 8, 9, 12, 13,14 r/g 6965
BIOCARD. Experiment Operations r/g 1907
Closing of the Shutters of the USOS Window
Leak Check of Soyuz 719 Sokol Spacesuits
BEAM. Sensors and Internal Cables Assembly. Part D
Preparation for the Replacement of Unit 800А of SM Battery
On MCC Go Urine Transfer from ЕДВ-У into Rodnik БВ1 Tank of Progress 432 (SM Aft) / r/g 2476
Sokol Dryout. Dryout of Suit 1 and 2 / Soyuz 719
HRM Photography in Columbus
Support of ETC Rack during the Rotation
LBNP Training (PRELIMINARY) – Assistance / r/g 2469
LBNP Training (PRELIMINARY) r/g 2469
Rotation of ETC Rack Up
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
PBRE. Camcorder Setup
HRF. Urine Samples Collection
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain – Part 2
Radiation Monitors Deployment
HRF. Insertion of Samples into MELFI
Kentavr Suits Adjustment for Soyuz 719 Crew
Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Kit Sample Collection
Node 1 VAP Leak Check, Part 2
Hardware Setup for a PAO Event
DOSETRK. Data Entry
KORREKTSIYA. Logging in fluids and food (medications) intake / r/g 2448
Sokol Spacesuits 1 and 2 Dryout (end) / Soyuz 719
Sokol Spacesuit 3 Dryout (start). Dryout of the First Pair of Gloves (start)
Crew Preparation for a PAO Event
Surface Sample Kit (SSK) Collection/Incubation
PAO Event
Conference of the Returning Crew with the Search and Rescue Team
Onboard Memory Device БЗУ of РСПИ. Monitoring of the Test Software Installation on-БЗУ r/g 2475
Collection of Water Samples from the Water Distribution and Heating Unit БРП-М into Drink Bags / r/g 2477
DOSETRK. Data Entry
Teardown of Earlier Installed Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK)
MARROW. Breath and Air Sample Setup
Water Samples Collection from [СВО-ЗВ] into RS Drink Bags / r/g 2477
Dryout of the First Pair of Gloves (end). Dryout of the Second Pair of Gloves (start)  / Soyuz 719
Closeout Operations and BEAM Egress. Closing of Node 3 Aft Hatch
KORREKTSIYA. Preparation for the Experiment / r/g 2470
HRF. Preparation for Blood Samples Collection
Life on the ISS Photo and Video / r/g 2000
HRF. Urine Samples collection
Dryout of the Second Pair of Gloves (end) / Soyuz 719
ARED Footplate Unfold Back to Nominal Position
HRF. Samples Insertion into MELFI
Soyuz 720 GoPro HERO3 Batteries Charging (start)
Sokol Spacesuit 3 Dryout (end). Dryout of the Third Pair of Gloves (start)
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Dryout of the Third Pair of Gloves (end) / Soyuz 719
Sokol Spacesuits and Gloves Stowage after the Dryout / Soyuz 719
IMS Delta File Prep
Sokol Spacesuits and Gloves Stowage after the Dryout / Soyuz 719
Countermeasures System (CMS) Sprint Exercise Optional
URAGAN. Observation and Photography with VSS / r/g 2464
HRF. Urine Samples Collection
HRF. Samples Insertion into MELFI
Soyuz 720 GoPro HERO3 Batteries Charging (end)
COGN. Experiment Ops and Questionnaire

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

BEAM operations
Nominal ground commanding

 
