06-05-2011June 05, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/05/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Sunday – crew rest day.   Ahead: Week 12 of Increment 27/28. At wake-up, FE-3 Garan conducted another session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, his 21st.      [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.] FE-1 Samokutyayev performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.      [SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers]. At ~5:05am, CDR Andrey Borisenko had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop). Activities called out for Ron Garan on his voluntary “job jar” task list for today and the week ahead are –Progress 42P-delivered cargo unpacking,Relocation of items from PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) “Leonardo” and ISS to open up space for STS-135/ULF7 resupply items,Replacing KTO solid waste container when full (using any KTO bottom & body plus reporting serial numbers & flush counter reading in crew notes or to MCC-H),Unpacking last CTB (Cargo Transfer Bag) from ULF6 MDDK (Middeck) transfers,Weekly updating of Norton AntiVirus definitions on CPSD (Crew Personal Support Disk),Scavenging two LSAs (long strap assemblies) from PMM for use during ULF7 (week ahead),Swapping ISS Amateur/Ham VHF Transceiver (Ericsson) with ISS Ham UHF Transceiver (Ericsson) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) (week ahead),Replacing currently installed MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) J404 feedthrough cable with stowed J404 feedthrough and stowing removed cable for ULF7 pre-pack and return to Earth (week ahead),Performing onboard crew provisions tracking (week ahead), andRecording Podcast for VASCULAR payload in HD (high definition) after reviewing suggested script message, then downlinking video at crew preference (week ahead). Jobs listed for Samokutyayev & Borisenko today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –Another ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop,An audit/inventory of onboard SFOG (Solid Fuel Oxygen Generator) candles,Repacking 9 full-size CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) in the RS (Russian Segment) for transfer to the ATV2 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 2) for disposal as per USOS agreement,A photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining photo & video data on oceanic color bloom patterns in the South-East Pacific waters, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, andPreparing & downlinking more reportages (text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb). The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-3), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR). No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today. 