
Payloads:
AstroPi: Following the completion of the European AstroPi Challenge ‘Mission Zero’, the AstroPi Vis unit was returned to its default configuration and position. Two augmented Raspberry Pi computers (called AstroPis) were flown to the ISS and are both equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detects how the station moves through space, and picks up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different types of cameras: one has an IR camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera.
AstroRad Vest: The AstroRad vest was donned, worn for several hours during daily activities, doffed and a questionnaire filled out. Comfort and Human Factors AstroRad Radiation Garment Evaluation (CHARGE) tests a special vest designed to protect astronauts from radiation caused by unpredictable Solar Particle Events (SPEs). Astronauts provide input on the garment as they wear it while performing daily tasks, including how easy it is to put on, how it fits and feels, and the range of motion it allows. Garment developers can use this input to improve design, and the use of the vest will protect crew members on missions to the Moon and Mars.
Acoustic Diagnostics: The Acoustic Diagnostic instrument hardware was setup, calibrated and measurements were recorded. Following this, a questionnaire was filled out on the EveryWear device. The Acoustic Upgraded Diagnostics In-Orbit (Acoustic Diagnostics) investigation tests the hearing of ISS crew members before, during, and after flight. This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station (NutrISS): In support of the NutrISS investigation, an ESA Nutritional Assessment (ENA) was performed. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. It is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein, intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): Last week, several seed cartridges were trashed in Root Module 1 (RM1) due to observed microbial growth. Today, new Cherry Belle Radish and Tokyo Cabbage seed cartridges were installed to allow plant growth RM1 to begin. The crew also opened the wicks in RM3. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Oxygen Transfer Termination and Initiation: Today, the crew installed the NORS O2 Recharge Tank and transferred oxygen to the ISS Airlock oxygen tanks via equalization. The NORS tanks are used for the gas transfer into either the external airlock tanks or directly into the internal N2/O2 lines for gas usage.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Hard Upper Torso (HUT) Scrubber Deconfiguration: The crew removed the HUT Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Scrubber from a spare HUT, which is used to scrub and iodinate the spare HUT water lines. This will close out the Loop Scrub activities the crew performed yesterday for EMUs 3004 and 3015. 
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Hatch Seal Inspection: As part of periodic maintenance, the crew cleaned and inspected the USOS Hatch Seals and Hatch Plate Sealing Surface for the Node 1 Aft hatch. The crew also inspected the Crank Handle Mechanism, Hatch Seal Interlocking Joints and PMM Hatch Kicker Pins for foreign object debris (FOD) or damage.  
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Audit: The crew performed an audit of the PPE Warehouse located in PMA1 to ensure that all the safety equipment was there and accessible. The PPE warehouse is where all the spare PPE equipment is stowed and can be used to restock other PPE kits as necessary.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Xoi SSC System Service Pack Deploy
Deactivation and Re-activation of the Four Bed CO2 Scrubber
Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Zero Calibration

