06-06-2011June 06, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/06/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Underway: Week 12 of Increment 27/28. FE-1 Samokutyayev’s morning inspection today included the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM (Service Module) on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture. CDR Borisenko started the day with his 2nd MBI-24 “SPRUT-2” (“Squid-2”) onboard test, part of Russian medical research on the distribution and behavior of human body fluids in zero gravity, along with PZEh-MO-8 body mass measurement using the IM device.       [Supported by the RSE-Med A31p laptop with new software (Vers. 1.6) in the SM, the test uses the Profilaktika kit, with data recorded on PCMCIA memory cards, along with the crewmember’s body mass values and earlier recorded MO-10 Hematocrit value, but skipping “fat fold” measurements.  Experiment requisites are the Sprut securing harness, skin electrodes (cuffs), and RSS-Med for control and data storage.  The “Pinguin” suit or Braslet-M cuffs, if worn, have to be taken off first.  Electrode measurements are recorded at complete rest and relaxed body position.  The actual recording takes 3-5 minutes, during which the patient has to remain at complete rest.] After wakeup, Samokutyayev initiated recharging the RUSALKA batteries and later in the day set up the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) hardware at SM window #9 for another sun-glint observation session, using the hand-held spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor), synchronized with the coaxially mounted NIKON D2X camera for taking snapshots, and later downloaded the data to laptop RS1 for subsequent downlink via OCA.  The equipment was then torn down and stowed away.      [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere], FE-3 Garan had most of his workday (~5 hrs) dedicated to Day 3 of the ongoing SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop transition to/reloading with software v.4 (SSCV4), today scheduled to replace existing servers with new servers, deploy new T61p SSC laptops, swap hard drives in order to maintain contingency rollback capability, join wireless laptops to the network so that ground can complete configuration, and perform stowage operations.  However, SSC reloads ran into snags, including missing .dll files, and ground teams are assessing next steps.       [Of the (originally) 24 SSC laptops in the ISS (SM: 3, Node-3: 1, Node-1: 1, A/L: 1, Cupola: 3, Lab: 7. JPM: 1, Node-2: 6, COL: 1), 13 will be reloaded with v.4 by the ground, 7 by the crew.  After replacement of the remaining IBM A31p laptops with Lenovo T61p’s, the machines will be configured by the crew (12) & ground (9), leaving at the end 23 T61b SSCs in service.] Aleksandr Samokutyayev meanwhile performed routine maintenance on the SM SRVK-2M system by replacing its BKO multifiltration unit with a spare, discarding the old unit and updating the IMS (Inventory Management System).  (Last time done: 11/27/10).      [BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.]  Afterwards, Sasha conducted his 3rd session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop for the 2h 20m activity.      [Andrey Borisenko assisted Sasha in donning the electrode cap, preparing his head for the electrodes, and applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.] Activities completed by CDR Borisenko also included –Using work calipers to measure the thread diameter of a mounting seat for the Russian OTKLIK (Tekh-19, “Response”) payload in the SM preparatory to installing a sensor unit (NA)  [OTKLIK uses piezoelectric sensors to register impacts of micrometeoroids and man-made particles on the external structure of the SM].Continuing the current round of monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today replacing the PS1 & PS2 dust collector filters in the FGB with new spares, discarding the used units and updating the IMS (Inventory Management System) with the BCR (Bar Code Reader),Performing periodic service of the RS radiation payload suite “MATRYOSHKA-R” (RBO-3-2) by initializing & deploying new Bubble dosimeters, supported by ground specialist tagup.      [A total of eight Bubble dosimeter detectors were initialized in the Bubble dosimeter reader in the SM and positioned at new exposure locations.  The deployment locations of the detectors were photo-documented with the NIKON D2X camera and also reported with initialization data to TsUP via log sheet via OCA.  The complex MATRYOSHKA payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls],Conducting the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow  [SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers],Reconfiguring the REGUL-Packet radiogram channel from REGUL-OS/String 2 to work with String 1, a periodic alternating task.   [Located in the SM, the Regul-OS is a subsystem of the RSUS Radio Control & Comm System of the RS (Russian Segment) for handling two-way voice communication, digital command/program information, and telemetry transmission via Russian RGS (Groundsites).   Regul is the nominal uplink channel for all Russian commands; operating at a low data rate, it is equivalent to the US S-band system], andClosing the external covers for SM windows ##12, 13, 14, 6, 8, 9 as protection against contamination during the ATV2 “Johannes Kepler” propulsion system fuel/oxidizer line purging & venting this afternoon. Borisenko undertook a session with the MedOps protocol PZE MO-5, “Cardiovascular Evaluation during Graded Exercises” on the VELO cycle ergometer, a standard Russian physical fitness test, assisted by Samokutyayev as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Afterwards, the CDR & FE-1 switched places, with Sasha becoming the subject and Andrey the operator.       [The 50-min assessment (per person), supported by ground specialist tagup via VHF and telemetry monitoring from RGS (Russian Ground Site, 1:26pm & 3:00pm EDT) uses the Gamma-1 ECG (electrocardiograph) equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels.  For the graded exercise, the subject works the pedals after a prescribed program at load settings of 125, 150, and 175 watts for three minutes each.  Data output involves a kinetocardiogram, rheoplethysmogram, rheoencephalogram and a temporal pulsogram.] FE-3 Garan performed routine service on the WRS (Water Recovery System) using the LFTP (Low Flow Transfer Pump) to transfer one CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodine) to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) and offloading it entirely.    [Estimated offload time: 5 hrs.], Preparatory to this evening’s (3:45pm-6:15pm) activation of the Node-3 CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly) by the ground, Garan connected the Node-3 ITCS LTL (Internal Thermal Control System Low Temperature Loop).  He also terminated LTL flow to the Lab CDRA, which was shut down by the ground.     [Node-3 CDRA will be turned on in preparation for running OGA (Oxygen Generator Assembly) and Sabatier on Wednesday (6/8).] In preparation for today’s ATV2 propellant system purge/vent activities, FE-3 closed the protective external shutters of the Lab, Cupola & JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) windows.  Later, Ron Garan unstowed METOX (Metal Oxide) canisters #0015 & #0016 and initiated their regeneration in the US A/L (Airlock) “bakeout” oven.     [Recyclable METOX canisters replaced the old one-way/expendable LiOH (lithium hydroxide) canisters as carbon dioxide (CO2) removal system in the EMU/spacesuits in 2001.  During use, CO2 is absorbed by them and later removed through a special valve opening by “baking” (heating), which takes place in a special oven in the A/L.] Before sleeptime, Ron configures the equipment for his next 24-hour urine collections of the Generic HRF (Human Research Facility) urine sampling protocol, his first, starting on Wednesday (6/8).      [Based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV (International Procedures Viewer) capabilities, the generic blood & urine procedures were created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.] Before “Presleep” period, Ron will power on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.] The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-1), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR, FE-1). Jobs listed for Samokutyayev & Borisenko today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –Auditing/inventorying all onboard SFOG (Solid Fuel Oxygen Generator) candles,Repacking 9 full-size CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) in the RS for transfer to the ATV2 for disposal as per USOS agreement,Daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur), andPreparing & downlinking more reportages (text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb). ATV2 Prop Line Purge/Vent:    Preparatory to its undocking on 6/20, ATV2 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 2) “Johannes Kepler” propellant (fuel/oxidizer) lines will be purged & vented by automatic sequencer this afternoon at 1:28pm-3:01pm EDT. ATV2 Survey by SSRMS:   This evening at ~6:15pm-8:15pm, the Space Station Remote Manipulator System will be used for an external survey of the ATV2, docked at the SM aft end. SPDM Reconfiguration:    Tonight at 10:35pm-12:35am, the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator “Dextre” will be reconfigured to be ready for ULF7. No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today. 