
Defining the Relationship Between Biomarkers of Oxidative and Inflammatory Stress and the Risk for Atherosclerosis in Astronauts During and After Long-duration Spaceflight (Cardio Ox): Cristoforetti performed her Return – 15 day (R-15) Cardio Ox ultrasound, with Virts assisting as the on-orbit operator.  Following ultrasound scans of brachial and carotid arteries and of the heart, blood pressure readings via the Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure unit were taken.  Cardio Ox will determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight, and how those markers correlate with the long-term health changes in astronauts. This will help to define the cardiovascular health risks associated with long duration space flight and in developing countermeasures, as well as understanding crew health care needs in the years after their return to Earth.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections: Kelly and Cristoforetti performed saliva collections in support of Microbiome and Salivary Markers.  Kelly also collected samples in support of the 1-Year Mission Experiment Twins Study. 

The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
Salivary Markers samples measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays. This research study will help identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system. If any impairment in immunity is found due to spaceflight, this will allow the development of appropriate countermeasures to help mitigate the risks.
Twin Study is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple PI’s at multiple centers.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, one of whom experiences space travel for one year while the other is earth-bound.  The study looks at changes in the human body in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.

Rodent Research-2 Preparations: Cristoforetti completed a Bone Densitometer checkout in advance of Sunday’s final sample collection for the RR-2 experiment.  This research is to monitor the effects of the space environment on the musculoskeletal and neurological systems of mice as model organisms of human health and disease. Living in microgravity results in significant and rapid effects on the physiology of mice that mimic the process of aging and some diseases in humans on Earth, including muscle atrophy and the loss of bone mineral density.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3010 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Prep for Return: Following the successful Remove & Replace (R&R) of the failed FPS in EMU 3010 this week, today the crew packed the removed FPS for return on 41 Soyuz (41S). A Return To Service test for the suit is planned next week.
Robotics Operations: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into position to complete a survey the multi-layer insulation (MLI) on the ammonia lines.  They then maneuvered SSRMS in a survey of the Russian segment in order to support updates to the models used for robotic planning on the ground. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


TWIN. Sample Collection
SLEEP. Completing Questionnaire
HRF – Sample Collection and Prep for Stowage
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
SLEEP. Completing Questionnaire
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
PK-4 data hard drives exchange for the next experiment run
HRF1 – Installation of PC1
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference
РК4 Experiment Ops
RGN-REC TNK – Transfer and Swap
Fine Motor Skills – Subject
PK4 Run 3 [Aborted]
Video camera GoPro HERO3 setup and adjustment for ТК 715 Descent Ops
Food Frequency Questionnaire
OTKLIK. Hardware Check
Rodent Research (RR) – Review
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
PAO hardware setup
CDM Data Download to SSC Laptop
Crew Prep for PAO
Charging GoPro HERO3 Camcorder Battery – start
HRF Rack 1 – Ultrasound 2 Hardware Setup
PAO Event During A Year-Long Mission
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill [Aborted]
HRF Rack 1 –  Ultrasound 2 Hardware Power On
CARDOX – Preparation Steps and Hardware Setup
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
RELAKSATSIYA. Hardware Setup
ТК 715 Stowage Ops for Disposal and Return
CARDOX – Experiment Ops
RELAKSATSIYA. Setting Parameters
CARDOX – Battery Installation into Holter Arterial BP unit
CARDOX – Blood Pressure Operations
Rodent Research Module: Water Box and Light Check
RELAKSATSIYA Observation
CARDOX – Blood Pressure Operations Closeout
Food Frequency Questionnaire
RELAKSATSIYA Closeout Ops
Removal of depress hose for nominal operations
Rodent Research (RR) – Review
РК4 Chamber Cleaning
Private Exercise Conference (PEC)
Charging GoPro HERO3 Camcorder Battery – end
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Replacement of RSE1 Laptop Shell.
EDV (SV) Filling (Separation)
FLUID SHIFTS. OCT Setup in USOS
ТК 715 Stowage Ops for Disposal and Return
Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Pack for Return
Ultrasound – Data Export
RGN – Initiate drain into EDV
FLUID SHIFTS. Equipment stowage
ESA Weekly Crew Conference
СОЖ Maintenance
RGN – Terminate water drain into EDV
Transfer of Fan Pump Separator (FPS)
IMS and Stowage Conference
LBNP Exercise (PRELIMINARY)
IMS Delta File Prep
Crew Departure Prep
USND2 – Deactivation of Ultrasound Hardware and Camcorder
Rodent Research (RR) – Camcorder Setup
Crew Discretionary Conference
Flight Director / ISS Crew Tagup
PK4 Gas Exchange in the Chamber to Neon
PK4 Hardware Teardown 

Completed Task List Items

WHC-KTO-REPLACE
JLP-BAG-RESTOW 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


MSS survey ops
CDH Bus Ch B Swap
CDH Bus Ch A Swap 

