
SpaceX-28 (SpX-28) Launch: The SpX-28 Dragon spacecraft launched aboard a Falcon 9 rocket from Launch Complex 39A at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida at 10:47 AM CDT this morning, and is scheduled to dock to the ISS tomorrow morning at 4:50 AM CDT. The spacecraft is carrying supplies and hardware to the ISS, including two new roll-out solar arrays packed inside its unpressurized trunk.
Payloads:
Ring Sheared Drop-Interfacial Bioprocessing of Pharmaceuticals (RSD-IBP):  The crew removed the processed sample and its test cell, and installed the next sample to be processed.  They also performed some diagnostic steps to help determine the cause of some minor camera interference.  The ground team will later command the deployment of a large drop of liquid (up to 25mm in diameter) into the system for processing.  RSD is a containerless liquid system that makes it possible to study protein solutions without the effects of interactions with solid walls. RSD-IBP studies the behavior of high-concentration protein fluids and tests computer models for predicting that behavior. More accurate models could enable production of next-generation medicines for treating cancers and other diseases.
Space Health:  The crew reviewed big picture words, performed a breathing volume calibration, donned the Bio-Monitor garment and headband, and set up the data collection unit.  This marks the start of the 48-hour Space Health experiment session.  To gain efficiency, a Cardiobreath session is being combined with the Space Health session, since it also uses the Bio-Monitor system.  The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. The potential use of the Bio-Monitor system on the Artemis analytical platform for future space missions is being evaluated. The Artemis analytical platform is used to provide automated analysis of the cardiovascular system in order to develop a near real-time assessment tool during long range missions.
Systems:
Treadmill 2 (T2) Yearly and 6 Month Maintenance: The crew performed both the 6-month and yearly T2 preventative inspections and maintenance actions. During these tasks, the crew inspected the tread belt slats and screws, cleaned the treadmill drive shaft, greased the forward and rear axles, vacuumed inside the rack and around the treadmill, and inspected the bungee shackle key mount witness marks. An unmanned activation and checkout was completed and ground specialists are reviewing the data to verify T2 remains GO for exercise.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: In preparation for the upcoming 1A IROSA EVA scheduled on Friday, June 5th, EVA procedures were reviewed. The crew also verified the configuration of the tools prior to EVA use and removed an EVA battery from the battery stowage compartment. Road-to EVA tasks will be ongoing for the remainder of the week. 
Dragon Vehicle Activities: In preparation for SpX-28 docking tomorrow morning, the crew stowed previously deployed hardware from the Axiom-2 (Ax-2) mission and relocated two Station Support Computers (SSCs) to the Cupola in support of Dragon Vehicle Monitoring. Ax-2 mission equipment restow included the Space Automated Laboratory Incubator (SALI), the Minus Eighty-degree Laboratory Freezer for the ISS (MELFI), and the consolidation of any trash.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
Completed Task List Activities:

Columbus Racks Photo Audit [GMT 154]

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

ITCS Airlock LTL Flow Initiation/Terminate
VS Limit Configuration
Automated TDRS Selection PPL Loading
CETA Light Activation
Onboard Configuration for SpX-28 Docking
ARS Lab CDRA Deactivation

