
SpaceX (SpX)-11 Launch and Berth: SpX-11 launched on Saturday, June 3 at 4:07pm CDT. Capture occurred today at 9:00am CDT followed by berthing at ~11:30m CDT. The crew completed successful pressurization and leak checks, removed Control Panel Assemblies and configured the Dragon vestibule for ingress which is scheduled tomorrow. Robotics ground controllers will translate the Mobile Transporter from Work Site (WS) 4 to WS6 and unstow Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) in preparation for Dragon trunk unloading tomorrow.
Rodent Research (RR) Transfer Review: Following capture and berthing of SpX-11, the crew prepared for transfer of the mice from Dragon planned for this Wednesday. They reviewed Big Picture words, presentations, videos and reference material and procedures for transferring the animals from the transporter to their habitat. Following the review they completed a conference with ground teams. 
Orbital 7 (OA-7) Unberth: OA-7 unberthed from the ISS on Sunday, June 4 at 6:05am CDT with release at 8:10am CDT. The delay of SpX-11 launch on Thursday allowed OA-7 to unberth Sunday. Following departure, Cygnus is supporting two NASA payloads – SAFFIRE III and NRCSD-E prior to re-entry on June 11. 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 3:  Yesterday the crew removed Biophysics-3 Plate 1 and placed it into a MERLIN.  Investigators will use the results from LMM Biophysics 3 to examine the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity. This investigation is expected to add to scientists’ understanding of the physical processes that enable high-quality crystals to grow in space where Earth’s gravity does not interfere with their formation. 
Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Troubleshooting: Over the weekend the crew performed additional CEVIS troubleshooting utilizing spare cables to check out both control panels.  Neither control panel functioned with either cable. The crew returned CEVIS to the temporary configuration using the Contingency Control Panel (CCP) and the spare cable. When using the CCP, the crew must manually dial the resistance and record their exercise information. A spare ergometer, control panel and 2 power cables are scheduled for launch on SpX-12. An additional ground cable and CCP are also being refurbished for flight. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to maneuver the Dragon to and install it on the Node-2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM). They then supported the inspection of the Dragon Passive CBM sealing surface.  Ground Controllers then captured and bolted Dragon to the ISS. The MSS was subsequently configured to a nominal operations configuration.  
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Hard discs inventory for photo and video recording
Greetings Video Recording
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
URAGAN. Observation and photography
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Preparation for installation of access point of Bel Air in SM.
USOS Window Shutter Close
Closing Window Shutters №6,8,9,12,13,14 SM.
Crew Command Panel (CCP) Cable Route and Checkout
Repair of hatch suspension [ПГО-СУ(SM)] in FGB and other suspensions inspection
NanoRacks Module-9 OBT
MERLIN 5 Desiccant Replace
EDV separation with [УС].
Photo/TV Ghost Camera in Cupola on SSC power recording
СОЖ maintenance
Robotics Workstation (RWS) Dragon Configuration
Dragon R Bar Approach
EDV separation with [УС] Closeout ops
Kurs-P SM cables reconnection from MRM-2 [АФУ] to DC-1 [АФУ].
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Dragon Capture
Cleaning SM Port Crew Cabin
Monthly Routine Maintenance of Central Post Laptop. (RS2) Laptop Log-File Downlink.
Laptop RS1 and RS2 activations/deactivations
Node 2 to Dragon Pressurization and Leak Check Equipment Pregather
WORF Monthly Laptop Connect
Cold Stowage Double Cold bag Unpack Review
Robotic Workstation (RWS) High Definition (HD) Monitor Deactivation
Ghost camera teardown in Cupola
Photo TV High Definition (HD) Cygnus Video Setup
Installation of cable 17К 29Ю 8229А-770 in SM
Rodent Research Transfer Review
Rodent Research Crew Conference
Delta file prep
Crew Command Panel (CCP) Cable Deroute
Node 2 to Dragon Pressurization and Leak Check
Dragon Vestibule Outfitting
Node 2 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Removal

Completed Task List Items

CEVIS Control Panel Troubleshooting (Completed GMT 154/155)
Atmospheric Control System (ACS) Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) N2 Transfer (Completed GMT 154)
Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) Relocate (Completed GMT 154)
Reentry Device Activation and Deployment for OA-7 (Completed GMT 154)
Stowage Consolidation for SpX-11 (Completed GMT 154)
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Charging (Completed GMT 154)
Dragon Rendezvous and Proximity Operations Program (RPOP) Setup and Checkout (Completed GMT 155)
AED Inspection (Completed GMT 155)
Photograph Failed Prophonics Earwear (Completed GMT 155)

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Dragon Approach and Rendezvous Support
MT translate from WS4 to WS6

