06-06-2009June 06, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/06/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – light-duty day for CDR Gennady Padalka (Russia), FE-1 Michael Barratt (USA), FE-2 Koichi Wakata (Japan), FE-3 Roman Romanenko (Russia), FE-4 Robert Thirsk (Canada), FE-5 Frank DeWinne (Belgium).  After yesterday’s Orlan EVA-22, the crew is back on regular sleep/wake cycle.   FE-4 & FE-5 continued their first session of sleep logging for the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight) from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a 7-day-long session.     [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, Bob & Frank wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, and they use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Romanenko, Thirsk & DeWinne began their workday before breakfast with the periodic session of the Russian biomedical routine assessment PZEh-MO-8/Body Mass Measurement, using the IM mass measurement device, which Romanenko then stowed away again.  First time for all three.   [For determining body mass in zero-G, where things are weightless but not massless, the Russian IM "scales" measure the inertial forces that arise during the oscillatory motion of a mass driven by two helical metering springs with known spring constants.  By measuring the time period of each oscillation of the unknown mass (the crewmember) and comparing it to the period of a known mass, the crewmember’s mass is calculated by the computer and displayed.]   Bob Thirsk & Frank DeWinne began the second day of their session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, after the 8-hr overnight fast.    [This was an all-day session, the first for both, of urine sample collections for both several times until termination tomorrow after 24 hrs.  DeWinne also assisted the FE-4 in his blood draw.  Frank’s phlebotomy (blood sample collection) from an arm vein is scheduled tomorrow.  The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood & urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]   Romanenko performed another inspection of the 4GB4 Hydraulic Unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for presence of coolant.    [On 5/19, the CDR had replaced a pump unit of the 4SPN1 replaceable pump panel at this location.]   Padalka & Barratt cleaned up after the EVA-22 spacewalk and prepared the Orlan-MKs #5 & #6 for EVA-23 (6/10).  Specifically, Gennady & Mike –  Removed the BK-3 portable oxygen      repressurization tanks (primary & backup) from the DC1 BSS (Orlan      Interface Unit), Repressurized the interior from      the BNP portable repress tank #7 in the DC1 until empty, Removed the BNP portable repress      tank from the SM Work Compartment (RO) and stowed it, Removed the Orlan BRTA      radio/telemetry unit batteries,  Took post-EVA radiation readings      of the “Pille-MKS” dosimeters carried by the spacewalkers in      their Orlan suits, Put the EVA medical kits back in      storage,  Downlinked EVA-22 digital      photography,  Set up the first 825M3 Orlan      battery for complete discharge/recharge, Removed the US EMU      (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) lights, video camera, REBA battery &      electric power cable from MK #6, plus the Kapton tape from the REBA      activation strap, Searched for a checkout panel      (PKO-M 2AK-7205-00-01), Refilled the water tanks as      required, and Configured the Orlan-MK suits for      drying out.    For his VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) program, FE-2 Wakata set up the High Definition TV gear (G1 camcorder, MPC/Multipurpose Converter, IPU/Image Processing Unit) in the Kibo module with tools & materials for recording the third session with the JAXA “Try Zero-G” experiment, and then conducted the demo “Twosome” in two parts, with and without fan.  Afterwards, the equipment was disassembled and stowed.   At ~9:00am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   Barratt & Wakata also filled out their regular weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), Mike’s ninth, Koichi’s 12th.    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   Bob Thirsk completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC (Station Support Computer) laptops.   Roman Romanenko performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, today also including the cleaning of the BMP fan grille.   With the TVIS treadmill currently out of service (see Note below), Padalka & Romanenko were advised by TsUP/Moscow to use a contingency Russian device for physical exercise, the NS-1 Expander, on a daily basis until the TVIS is restored.    [Uplinked material included detailed instructions with pictures on the use of the simple body-stretch device.]   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. workout program (about half of which is used for setup & post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), ARED (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), NS-1 Expander (FE-3), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).   Later, Bob transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).    At ~3:50am, Wakata powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and conducted, at 3:55am, another ham radio exchange in Japanese with students at the Kawanishi Seiwadai Community Center, Hyogo, Japan.    [Kawanishi City is in the residential suburbs that still “has wonderful nature”.  The history of Kawanishi City is very old.  A lot of historical shrines and culture still exists.  The community center was established as an exchanging place in 1987.  It is put to practical use for regional peoples exchanging place through sports and culture.]  TVIS Update:   Wakata’s IFM (Inflight Maintenance) yesterday on the forward right stabilizer (S4) of the treadmill exercise machine showed that the heads are sheared off four fasteners on a nut plate and the spring is broken, allowing the nut plate to become free floating.  No damage was observed on the other three springs and nut plates, and the fastener heads were found on the stabilizer magnet and removed.  The nut plate and broken spring were also removed, the cover was replaced, and the S4 stabilizer was re-installed on TVIS.  In the aft right stabilizer (S3) no damage was found.  Koichi took photo and hi-definition video imagery of both stabilizers, which was downlinked last night.  TVIS engineers are reviewing the imagery, and will make a Go/No-Go recommendation for a TVIS ACO (Activation & Checkout) session.  The FE-2 has agreed to conduct the ACO session tomorrow, tentatively planned for 6:00am EDT.  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty -- Week 1)  3-D SPACE:   The second session for Mike Barratt was completed nominally on 6/1.   AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):   Standing by.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    “Thank you Dr. Mike for the bonus pictures of sample 5.  It’s really great to get this extra science, along with your advice.  We are working on implementing your suggestion to move BCAT to the end-cone of node-2.  And thanks also for offering to take more photographs of the crystal samples 8, 9, 10.  When we saw the big colourful crystals in the early CDOT experiment many years ago we were using cylindrical sample cells.  Since we can only form these entropy-driven crystals in microgravity (i.e. a more ordered structure gives the particles more room in which to rattle about, or higher entropy), it was important to learn from you that the better colour separation that should result from using rectangular sample cells is challenging to capture with a camera.  Thanks again.”  BIOLAB (ESA):   No report.   Biological Rhythms (JAXA):   Ongoing. Two runs are for Barratt, two are planned for De Winne.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    “Thanks Bob for your excellent work during your first BISE session. The data has been validated and the PI team and CSA staff are excited by the results.  Thanks Frank for excellent work too and thank you both for a very creative way to reposition the laptop and the camera. Your data has been validated and is also interesting.”  BISPHOSPHONATES:   “Koichi, thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Your next session is scheduled for 6/8.  Bob, thanks for completing your first pill ingestion!  You are the second subject to complete this activity.  Your next session is scheduled for 6/8.”  CARD (Long Term Microgravity: A Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):   Complete.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility):   Troubleshooting continues. “CO2 sensor data were measured under the following condition: 37degreeC, RH 35%, 40%, 45%.  Next step will be to dry inside the CBEF by desiccant and measure RH20%-35%.  Then we can make a calibration curve for the CO2 sensor.”  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):   “Mike, we added an option to download your CCISS Holter and Actiwatch data off the task list starting Saturday.  Thanks again for repeating the session.   Bob, we are currently targeting your first ICV with CCISS ambulatory monitoring session for 6/16.”  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Complete.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack):   Planned.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial 2 (JAXA):   Completed.  Commercial 3 (JAXA):   Completed.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):   Planned.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):   No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   ENose (Electronic Nose):   Operating.  EPM (European Physiology Module):   Underway.   EPO (Educational Payload Operations):   Reserve.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   Planned.  EPO Try Zero-G  (JAXA):   “#3 (Twosome) will be Voluntary Science on this weekend.”  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   “Additional photo was very interesting.  Thank you.  Please keep photo in proprietary folder when you download them.”  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  EuTEF (European Technology Exposure Facility):    EuTEF platform and its instruments have been running nominally during this reporting period. –DEBIE-2:   New script will be started on 6/5.  The power cycle work-around was performed on 5/29. -- EXPOSE: On-going science acquisition. On 05/13 (GMT133), the valves of the Experimental Trays have been closed for the NH3 venting event. It is planned to keep those closed for  about 2 weeks to avoid any contamination to the samples; -- FIPEX: The last EOP script has been nominally performed until 5/29.  New script will be started on 6/5. – MEDET: commanding was performed on 6/4 to start a micro-calorimeter campaign; --PLEGPAY: science scripts are performed 3 times a day from 5/29; this will continue until 6/5; --TRIBOLAB:  was commanded into thermal stabilization mode on 6/4 and an integrity check of the motor is planned for 6/5.  FACET (JAXA):   “Experiments 31 through 35 are finished.  Very good data was observed.”  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory):   Activated for MMA measurements to support PCDF.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   To be launched by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   Complete.  HQPC (JAXA):   To be launched by 34P.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):   The ICV team is looking forward to starting on-orbit ops next week! Integrated Immune:   Complete.  KUBIK-FM1/ KUBIK-FM2 Centrifuge/Incubators:    Completed.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):      Completed.  Marangoni Experiment for ISS in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    In progress.    MAXI (JAXA):   Ongoing.   Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  “Micro-g measurement was performed to investigate how microgravity disturbance will transmit to the Experiment Rack in JEM.  Data are now being analyzed. Koichi, we caught your tapping signal by the MMA sensor, and it is good reference for analysis.”  MISSE (Materials ISS Experiment):  Ongoing.  Moon Photography from ISS (JAXA EPO):   One run performed on the last day of Increment 18.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  NEUROSPAT (ESA):    First sessions were performed by Bob & Frank on 6/3 and 6/4 respectively.  “We would like to thank the both of you for your dedication and hard work at getting all the science objectives met.  Thank you for all the excellent ideas that made it possible to complete the execution of this experiment.  The science team is very much looking forward to receiving the data and starting their analysis.”   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY:    Ongoing.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):   Continuing radiation dose accumulation.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):    The nucleation run on EP3 Cycle 4 ended on 5/31 and the second cycle of EP2 was started on the same day.  This reactor is dedicated to study the phenomena of protein depletion zone apparition during crystal growth phase. The science team observed crystals and depletion zones in this cycle.  MMA measurements were also performed in support of this run.  On 6/4 a PCDF anomaly occurred, and PCDF spontaneously rebooted and was off for about 3 minutes and the contingency scripts started.  The science team made the decision to re-dissolve and start the cycle again, with an adjustment to the temperature profile.  The rerun of the cycle was started 2 hours after the spontaneous reboot.  The EP4 reactor still contains some nice crystals to be returned by 2J/A.  The next week will be devoted to grow nice crystals in EP2 reactor.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):   Ongoing.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SEDA-AP (JAXA):   Exposed Payload,- to be launched by 2JA.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):   “Koichi, thanks for completing another week of sleep logging.  We currently have you scheduled to complete another week next week. This will actually be your fourth total due to a loss of data from the SSC during one of your previous sleep logging weeks.  Mike, next week we are scheduling another week of sleep logging.  Thanks for your participation.  Bob & Frank, you are currently completing your first week of sleep logging.  We are targeting every third week for future sleep logging.”   SMILES (JAXA):   Exposed Payload, to be launched by HTV1.   SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    The current Sun visibility window has started on 5/22, one day earlier than predicted.  SOLAR platform is in Sun Tracking Mode since then.  The present Sun observation window is predicted to end on 6/5. – SOLSPEC: on-going science acquisition, with regular calibration cycles with operational lamps and using a work-around calibration procedure for the UV spectrum; -- SOLACES: on-going science acquisition.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):   No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    Reserve.    SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   Planned.  Swab (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   Complete.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    VLE-1 completed.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    Complete/Planned (2J/A Stage).  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   Through 6/2, the ground has received a total of 11,340 of ISS CEO imagery for review and cataloguing.    [“We are pleased to confirm your acquisition of views of the following targets:  Paris, France – your excellent imagery of this target meets all requirements and it can be removed from our target list; Bonn, Germany – imagery quality was good, but too many clouds were present – we’ll ask for it again; Irkutsk, Russian Federation – again, excellent imagery completes requirements for this target; Merida, Mexico – excellent, almost cloud-free imagery of this target – best-ever – this target may be considered complete as well; and finally, three of the best-ever 800mm views of Barringer Impact Crater, Arizona – target complete.  You have had a week of extraordinarily high accomplishment.  Thank you for diligence and enthusiasm for working our payload.  We are so pleased with your photography!  This weekend your remarkable view of the Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River in Central China will be published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website.  Your image documents the new reservoir filling behind the world’s largest dam and illustrates the epic scale of this project and its impact on the environment of central China.  Nice shot!”]   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Rome, Italy (this target is on the CEO Capitals & Cities of the World site list.  The population of Rome is estimated to be about 3.7 million.  This ancient city can be located along the Tiber River.  Looking slightly left of track.  Overlapping images were requested), Bucharest, Romania (Bucharest is another one of our Capital cities of the World.  It is  the industrial and financial center of Romania. It can be located in the southeast part of the country on the banks of the Dambovita River.  Looking slightly left of track.  Overlapping imagery was requested), Houston, Texas (nice nadir-pass over Houston for  the crew to wave at their friends at the Johnson Space Center.  Weather should have been clear to partly cloudy), Mt. Etna, Sicily (weather was predicted to be clear over this volcano at the time of your overpass.  The massive volcanic edifice of Mt. Etna is the largest in Italy, and the most historically active.  High resolution, near-nadir imagery of the volcano's summit and flanks was requested), and Black Pt. Lava Flow, AZ (this Arizona lava flow is being used as an analog site for lunar lava phenomena.  Looking slightly right of track: the lava flow appears as a dark tongue protruding into the light-toned valley floor.  The Grand Canyon appears just uptrack from the site.  In September 2009 a 3-week field traverse is planned with the Lunar rover (LER) at this site.  Imagery from ISS thus simulates an orbiting crew imaging lunar landing and transect sites).   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).   