
Payloads:
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM): APM was removed from its Node 3 location and stowed. Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. APM demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
Cardiobreath: While wearing the Bio-Monitor hardware, the crew performed a CEVIS exercise session, and other activities related to the Cardiobreath experiment. To gain efficiency, this Cardiobreath session was combined with Space Health, which also uses the Bio-Monitor system. Astronauts experience changes in their cardiovascular, respiratory, and musculoskeletal systems during spaceflight, which can affect their capacity to exercise and to maintain blood pressure when standing after return to Earth. Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (Cardiobreath) studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight. Results could provide a better understanding of the mechanisms of these adaptations on long-duration missions and support development of methods for assessing cardiovascular and respiratory effects on blood pressure before and after spaceflight.
Microbial Aerosol Tethering on Innovative Surfaces in the ISS (MATISS): The two MATISS-3 sample holder units were checked to make sure they’re in the intended locations in the Columbus module. Bacteria are a big problem in space as they tend to build up in the constantly recycled atmosphere of the ISS. The main objective of the MATISS experiment is to find better materials with which to build a space station or spacecraft with, which is especially important for longer missions farther from Earth. Researchers will also monitor how bacteria form biofilms that protect them from cleaning agents and help them adhere to surfaces.
Moderate Temperature Protein Crystal Growth (MTPCG): To initiate the experiment run, two MTPCG boxes containing science samples were placed in the Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle-2 (FROST2). Following several weeks of crystal growth, the MTPCG items will be returned on SpX-28 for later analysis. JAXA’s MTPCG investigation is designed to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity. The protein samples are launched to the ISS by a cargo resupply vehicle and crystallized at 20°C using the counter-diffusion method. The crystals are returned to Earth to determine protein structures in detail, which are used to develop pharmaceutical drugs.
Ring Sheared Drop-Interfacial Bioprocessing of Pharmaceuticals (RSD-IBP): The crew removed the processed sample and its test cell, and installed the next sample to be processed. The ground team will later command the deployment of a large drop of liquid (up to 25mm in diameter) into the system for processing. RSD is a containerless liquid system that makes it possible to study protein solutions without the effects of interactions with solid walls. RSD-IBP studies the behavior of high-concentration protein fluids and tests computer models for predicting that behavior. More accurate models could enable production of next-generation medicines for treating cancers and other diseases.
Zero Robotics (ZR)-Technical Demonstration #3: Using the Astrobee free-flier system, multiple tests were performed with the goal of assessing hand gesture-recognition software. These activities support hand gesture recognition testing, and the testing of new ZR student competition game concepts. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. These robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, can perform crew monitoring, sampling, and logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
Systems:
Transfer SpX-28 Cargo Operations: The crew removed cargo from the SpX-28 cargo vehicle such as: fresh foods, crew care packages, and new science experiments. SpX-28 is planned to remain docked to the space station until later this month where it will depart from the ISS and splashdown off the coast of Florida.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: Today, the crew continued preparations for the upcoming ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) EVA. The crew performed an EVA Procedure Review and printed EVA Cuff Checklists. IROSA is a modification to the existing Solar Array Wings (SAWs), providing additional power to the station.
Emergency Chip Measurement System (CMS) and Draeger Tubes Replace: Today, the crew replaced the Ammonia CMS Chips in the Ammonia Measurement Kits (AMKs), as well as the Draeger Tube packets. The Ammonia CMS Chips have a two-year shelf-life, and the expiring chips will be trashed. The CMS is a spot measurement system for gas and vapor concentrations. All measurements are taken by the crew and must be relayed verbally to the ground.
Completed Task List Activities:

N/A

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain/Fill Support
MT Translation
Dragon Trunk Survey
Crew Dragon Awake Mode Checkout
POC DOUG Setup
Laptop Preparation for OCT2 Exam

