
Study of the Impact of Long-Term Space Travel on the Astronauts’ Microbiome (Microbiome): Cristoforetti performed her Return-14 (R-14) Microbiome session. She collected body swab samples, a potable water sample, surface sample, and a perspiration sample following exercise.  All samples were inserted into MELFI.  The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). To monitor the status of the crewmembers’ microbiome and immune system and their interaction with the unique environment of the International Space Station (ISS), we will take periodic samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment.
Cell Mechanosensing-3: Virts activated the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) and Thermal Container to enable the ground to perform additional data collection in advance of the Cell Mechanosensing-3 experiment, launching on SpaceX-7.  Specialists reviewed data from the initial checkout performed in early May and have requested additional data points prior to experiment activation.
Russian Segment Fluid Shifts Preparations: Kelly transferred and set up the ultrasound hardware for tomorrow’s Fluid Shifts sessions when Kelly and Kornienko will don the Lower Body Negative Pressure (Chibis) suit and undergo ultrasound measurements.  Padalka will assist the crewmembers, first as the ultrasound scanner for Kelly while Kornienko is the Chibis operator, then Padalka will be the Chibis operator and Kelly the ultrasound scanner for Kornienko. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Sleep ISS-12: Kelly and Kornienko are performing their week of sleep logging.  Within fifteen minutes of wakeup, the crew answered questions from the SleepLog application on the Station Support Computer (SSC).  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity, and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness, to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the International Space Station (ISS). 
Fan Pump Separator Remove and Replace (R&R) Preparation:  As a result of Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3010 inability to establish sufficient cooling water flow during last week’s maintenance, an FPS R&R is scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday of this week.  Today, Virts and Cristoforetti performed a detailed review of the R&R procedure and conducted a conference with ground specialists. The crew also gathered and configured tools in preparation for the R&R.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


МО-8. Configuration Setup
SLEEP. Filling in Questionnaire
Calf Volume Measurement / r/g 8949
Body Mass Measurement
Inspection of СМ-У, РУ2, РУ4, РУ5 connectors on МНР-НС separator pump in АСУ
Visual Inspection of circuit breaker [АЗС] position on DC1 power switch panel (БВП) and fuses on fuse boxes
Calf Volume Measurement / r/g 8949
Body Mass Measurement
Morning Inspection, Laptop RS1(2) Reboot
RSS1, 2 Reboot / r/g 7437
Body Mass Measurement
Calf Volume Measurement / r/g 8949
SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test
BIOME – Filling in Questionnaire
МО-8. Closeout Ops
HRF. Sample MELFI Insertion
Daily Planning Conference (S-band)
JEMAL External Hatch Opening and Platform Motion Towards JEF
FINEMOTR. Experiment Ops
MELF2. Ice Bricks Insertion into Thermostat
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops r/g 8951
Fine Motor Skills – Subject
On MCC Go Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
VCA Camera Setup
Mating umbilical of EXPRESS-3 ARIS in Columbus Module
SOZh Maintenance
MSPR – Hardware Activation
Attaching Calibration Chamber to Thermal Container
Study of Cardiac Bioelectric Activity at Rest
Cargo and Payload Relocation to COL1A1 and COL BAY1
JEMRMS – SFA Release
EMU Separator R&R Procedure Review 
Symbolic Activity / r/g 8948
Study of veins of lower extremities / r/g 8950
URAGAN. R&R and Test Activation of VSS r/g 8953
Study of veins of lower extremities / r/g 8950
Exercise Data Downlink / r/g 6797
Conference on EMU Separator R&R Procedure
HRF2. Supply Kit Inventory
Return of Retractable Platform into JEMAL and External Hatch Closure
JEMRMS – Laptop Deactivation
HAM. Hardware Stowage after WOOV6 R&R
Conference between Search and Rescue Team (ГПСК) specialists and the returning crew
ISS HAM. Radio Powerup
Medical Ops Computer-Based Training
ARED USB Cable Stowage
Soyuz TK 715 Kazbek Fit Check
WRS – Recirculation System Tank Fill
Tool Gathering for R&R of EMU 3010 Separator Fan
Study of veins of lower extremities / r/g 8950
Installation of Inserts for Easy Opening of SM Interior Panel Locks (Panel 323)
Life On the Station Photo and Video / r/g 8544
JEM – STL Laptop Reboot
BIOME – Water Sampling
POLAR3. Software Installation
Medical Ops Computer-Based Training
Installation of Inserts for Easy Opening of SM Interior Panel Locks (Panel 325)
Grease exposed wire of Left Upper Stop Cable
COSMOCARD. Preparation Ops. Starting of 24-h ECG Recording / r/g 8952
MATRYOSHKA-R. Photography of Spherical Phantom in Kibo / r/g 8955
ER4. Replacement of Storage Batteries
BIOME – Surface Sampling
Replacement of WAP CM BRI connection cable / r/g 8954
FLUID SHIFTS. Gathering the hardware from US OS and preparation for transfer to RS
HRF. Sample MELFI Insertion
BIOME – Hardware Setup for Experiment Ops
FLUID SHIFTS. Hardware Transfer to RS and setup at location before experiment ops
FLUID SHIFTS. Ultrasound Equipment and camcorder setup in SM
BIOME – Sample Collection and Stowage
IMS Delta File Prep
HRF. Sample MELFI Insertion
BIOME – Sample Stowage
HRF. Urine Collection Hardware Setup
FLUID SHIFTS. Connecting Ultrasound Equipment  to РБС / r/g 8956
WRS – Recirculation System Tank Fill
Daily Planning Conference (S-band)
COGN – Battery Testing
On MCC Go Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Absorption Cartridge (end)

Completed Task List Items

P/TV hardware unpack
Capillary beverage galley demo ops [Aborted]

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


JEMRMS Ops

