
Soyuz 55S Docking: The 55S vehicle completed a nominal docking to the ISS at 8:01 CDT (13:01 GMT).  The 55S Crew, Sergey Prokopev, Alexander Gerst and Serena Auñón-Chancellor, returned ISS to 6-crew operations after hatch opening at 10:18 CDT (15:18 GMT).  Late this afternoon, the entire ISS crew conducted a Safety Briefing to familiarize the new Soyuz crew with potential hazards and available safety measures on-board ISS; they reviewed the Emergency Equipment in the 55S Soyuz and practiced utilizing various emergency egress routes in the new station configuration. 
Plant Habitat-1:  Today the crew installed Science Carrier #1 into the Plant Habitat Facility. Photographs of each quadrant of the Science Carrier and of the final configuration of the Science Carrier inside the Growth Chamber were taken.  The crew injected water into the distribution system.  Plant Habitat is a fully automated facility that will be used to conduct plant bioscience research on the ISS. The space environment is stressful for all living organisms. Understanding how plants respond will help crews on future missions successfully grow plants for food and oxygen generation. The Plant Habitat-1 investigation compares differences in genetics, metabolism, photosynthesis, and gravity sensing between plants grown in space and on Earth.  This investigation is expected to provide key insights on major changes occurring in plants exposed to microgravity. 
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID):  The crew installed ten RFID Logistics marker tags in PMA-1 today.  RFID Logistics aims to utilize RFID enabled tags on hardware throughout the ISS to assist in the tracking of the hardware as it is moved around the ISS. 
Atmosphere Space Interaction Monitor (ASIM): ASIM Cadmium-Zinc-Telluride (CZT) crystal detectors, are not responding as expected in daylight. As part of the on-going ASIM commissioning, science teams requested use of the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) to illuminate the foil covering the detectors and therefore check the response from a known light source.  Overnight, robotics ground controllers positioned and configured the MSS to provide the requested illumination.  They captured pictures of ASIM from different angles to identify/detect any potential damage or contamination to the instrument.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Today the crew performed a Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) gas check, swapped out EVA GoPro camera equipment, and set up the EVA GoPro camera for EVA.  The crew continued configuring EVA tools and equipment needed during the upcoming US EVA #51 Node 2 External Wireless Communications (EWC) planned for 14th. 
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


ISS HAM Radio Power Down
Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue GN2 Check
EVA GoPro Setup
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Gas Analyzer Activation in Soyuz 738
COLUMBUS Bay 1, 2, 3 clean-up
СОЖ maintenance
MSG LAN Cable Check
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Plant Habitat Science Carrier Installation #1
MPEG2 Multicast Test via Ku-band (Activation/Deactivation of TV data and MPEG2 Multicast controls)
СТТС configuration for Soyuz 739 docking to MRM1. Comm check with Soyuz 739 in RSA-S/G2
Biolab Glovebox Gloves Exchange
Preparation for Soyuz 739 Docking
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Activation of TV Data and MPEG2 Multicast Monitoring Equipment
Monitoring Soyuz 739 Rendezvous with ISS (MRM1)
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
Comm reconfig after Soyuz 739 docking
Soyuz 739 – MRM1 Interface Leak Check
MERLIN Desiccant Swap
Cold Atom Lab Fiber Inspect
Disconnecting КЛ-153М TV Camera from MRM1 TV System
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Intravehicular Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter (IV-TEPC) Relocate
Radio Frequency Identification Logistics Marker Tag Installation in Node1 and US LAB
Soyuz-MRM1 Hatch Opening,
Handover of Increment 55S Crew
Space suit and glove drying for Soyuz 738 crewmembers
Arrival Private Medical Conference (PMC)
Comm reconfig for nominal ops
ISS HAM Radio Power Up
Transfer of Atmosphere Purification Filter Assembly АФОТ-2М from Soyuz 738 БО to MRM1 
Soyuz 739 post-docking safety briefing
Plant Habitat Water Refill
Soyuz 739 Deactivation 
Connecting TV Camera КЛ-153М to MRM1 TV System
Stowage of Soyuz space suits and gloves after drying
Soyuz 739 Transfers and IMS Ops
MATRYOSHKA-R. Transfer and Setup of Passive SPD Assemblies.
CALCIUM. Transfer of Calcium- Э from Soyuz and Setup in MRM1
CALCIUM. Experiment session 1 

Completed Task List Activities:

None 

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


System configuration to support docking
Lab CDRA Activation
N3 CDRA to Standby
Plant Habitat Support 

