
Fluid Shifts:  Today was the final day for the Fluid Shift operations in the Russian Service Module (SM) for Flight Day (FD) 45 sessions.  Kornienko donned the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP/Chibis) device while Padalka, with ground support in Moscow, assisted in the medical monitoring.  While Kornienko was subjected to the negative pressure (pulling the fluid feetward), Kelly, with remote guidance in Houston, performed measurements with Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), and Tonometry measurements. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Fine Motor Skills: Kelly performed his FD 70 Fine Motor Skills sessions this morning.  Fine motor skills are crucial for successful interaction with touch-based technologies, repairing sensitive equipment, and a variety of other tasks. In Fine Motor Skills, crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. 
Wearable Monitoring: Cristoforetti doffed and downlinked hardware from the Wearable Monitoring Vest that she wore overnight. This was the final of six planned sessions.  Wearable Monitoring validates a new cloth vest that monitors astronaut heart rates and breathing patterns during sleep. It collects data to investigate whether changes in heart activity are related to astronauts’ poor sleep quality. Current technology cannot check astronauts’ heart activity while they sleep because the test wakes them. The Wearable Monitor is a lightweight vest with silver wires and sensors embedded into the fabric, making it more comfortable to wear.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3010 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove & Replace (R&R): Virts and Cristoforetti completed R&Ring the failed FPS in EMU 3010. Tomorrow they will pack the removed FPS for return on 41 Soyuz (41S). A return to service test for the suit is planned next week. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Fluid Shifts config
Fluid Shifts connecting equipment
FLUID SHIFTS. РБС Power Outlet Activation
PK-4 data hard drives exchange
FLUID SHIFTS. Assistance with Chibis & Gamma-1
FLUID SHIFTS. КСПЭ hardware Deactivation and Closing Applications on ЦП SSC
FLUID SHIFTS. Deactivation of РБС and demating hardware cables
FLUID SHIFTS. Disconnecting HRF PC from ППС-26 and connecting RSE-Med
Return to nominal config
Replace battery pack in CDM, activate and don CDM for CDM Crew Worn session
EHS Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Stow Operation
EMU FPS R&R Part 2
KARDIOVEKTOR. Execution experiment  [Deferred]
FLUID SHIFTS. RS HRF connection to ППС-26 (instead of RSE-Med)
PCRF Maintenance Unit Relocation
Recharging 41S Satelite Phone
Making a documentary about life onboard the ISS
Crew departure prep
41S Air Heater Fan MNT
СОЖ maintenance
Fine Motor Skills Experiment Test Subject
Fluid Shifts OCT Service Module Setup
Fluid Shifts OCT Service Module Power On
Fluid Shifts CCFP Service Module Configuration
Fluid Shifts DPOAE Service Module Setup
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Service Module Setup
Fluid Shifts Experiment Service Module Data Collection Operator
Fluid Shifts CCFP And DPOAE Service Module End
Fluid Shifts OCT Service Module Power Off
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Service Module Stow
Fluid Shifts OCT Service Module Stow
Fluid Shifts CCFP And HRF PC Service Module Stow
Twins Study Saliva Collection Setup
PAO video recording
RGN Recycle Tank Fill
Valve maintenance of SM Rodnik system tanks
Fluid Shifts Hardware RSOS Gather
Fluid Shifts Hardware USOS Transfer
PAO HD Config LAB Setup
PAO Preparation
PAO event
VZAIMODEISTVIYE-2. Experiment Ops

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Port SARJ and BGA2B return to autotrack post high beta.

