
Multi-Omics: Over the weekend the crew checked the remaining Fructooligosaccharide (FOS) packages and stowed the Fructooligo Bag for the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Multi-Omics investigation. Today, the crew collected samples and inserted them into the Box Module in the Minus Eighty-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Multi-Omics analysis of human microbial-metabolic cross-talk in the space ecosystem evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the gut microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system.
 
Auxin Transport Run #3-2: Following completion of Auxin Transport 3-1 experiment run last week, today the crew conducted the first day of the 3-2 Auxin Transport experiment run by retrieving the samples from MELFI before preparing and installing the samples into the Cell Biology Experiment Unit (CBEF) for incubation. The incubation process takes 3 days and will be followed by the fixation, sampling and closeout activities on day 4. The objective of this Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) investigation is to clarify the role of auxins in pea and maize (corn) seedlings grown in microgravity, leading to new insight into how gravity, or the lack of gravity, affects plant development. This study may contribute to increasing the efficiency of plant cultivation in plant factories. The data obtained from the second experiment run will provide evidence of spaceflight‐alterations in auxin polar transport and endogenous levels of auxin, resulting in automorphogenesis.
 
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet were completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation. This is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
 
Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM) Ingress:  Following last week’s successful BEAM vestibule outfitting, earlier this morning the crew ingressed BEAM for the first time and performed outfitting tasks including safing the Ascent Vent Valve and initiating Inter-Module Ventilation (IMV). Sensor installation is planned for tomorrow and Wednesday.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (RMS) Ops: Following Friday’s ground operations to maneuver JEMRMS from the Small Satellite Deploy position to the stowed position, today the crew removed the NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD) hardware from the Multipurpose Experiment Module (MPEP) and the Handhold Experiment Platform Adapter was installed onto the MPEP.
 
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) P12B-A Remove & Replace (R&R): Friday night, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm 2 to extract the P12B_A Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) on the P1 Truss Nadir.  After unbolting the RPCM, several attempts were made to extract this RPCM.  During the last attempt the RPCM was accidently pulled with a force exceeding the allowable limits of both the SPDM and the RPCM due to the SPDM Force Moment Accommodation (FMA) being off.  A Multilateral Anomaly Resolution Team (MART) was held where it was decided to stand down from trying to extract the RPCM and to rebolt the RPCM.  After several attempts pushing the bolt at increasing force levels, the RPCM was finally bolted down when it was wiggled in pitch by SPDM Arm2, then pushed at the maximum allowable insertion force of 190 N.  SPDM Arm 2 and the SSRMS were configured to a park position pending ISS program direction for continuation of operations.
 
Starboard Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning: In preparation for 45S departure, the crew cleaned the CQ intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

БМП Ф1 absorption cartridge regeneration (start)
KORREKTSIA. Register acceptance of food and liquids (medicaments) in on-board log  r/g 2448
FMK deployment ops
FINEMOTR- experiment run
Prepare and install acoustic dosimeters
Preventive maintenance of laptop FS1 (clean and reboot) / r/g 1023
Fold ARED
Read pressure measurements from analogous manometer in BEAM module
VIBROLAB. Check equipment activation / r/g 2441
JEMAL – JEM Airlock repress
Take GSC samples
BEAM – first ingress (remove hatch, take air samples, install AVV valve, setup IMV air duct)
БРИ smart switch cleaning (monthly operation)   r/g 1841
БВН grille cleaning in Soyuz ТК №719
Install JEMRMS bus monitor cable
Ham radio pass from Columbus
Air sampling with АК-1М air sampler in BEAM r/g 2442
Stowage operations before Soyuz ТК №719 undock / r/g 2374, 2446
XF305 Video camera adjustment
JEMAL – JEM Airlock leak check
Gather ESA equipment to be returned on 45S
VIZIR. Preparation and start of experiment run r/g 2447
Extend JEM A/L table to JPM side
NanoRacks CubeSat – remove the device for deployment from MPEP
NAPOR-mini РСА. Clean БЗУ-М ventilation holes / r/g 1906
LBNP simulations (PRELIMINARY) r/g 2449
Egress from BEAM and start atmosphere purification through IMV
Nitrogen/Oxygen recharge system (NORS) of atmosphere control system (ACS): terminate oxygen supply
Inflight maintenance – clean starboard crew quarters
ВЕАМ module – install IMV air duct and ventilation grille
BEAM – connect SSC for collection of data from DDS sensors
Stowage operations before Soyuz ТК №719 undock / r/g 2374, 2446
SM atmosphere analysis for freon with the help of ФИТ analyzer r/g 1751
Install adapter for manual platform connection
VIZIR. Experiment run with СКПФУ equipment r/g 2445 [Deferred]
ВЕЛО-4 exercise
Retract JEM A/L extendable table from JPM side
Open valves of air bottles in BEAM
Closeout ops and egress from BEAM, close Node 3 Aft hatch
Check connection of BEAM  IMV valve
Put ARED into working position
Preventive maintenance program (CMS) – T2 treadmill- exercise
Inflight maintenance – WHC – Full Fill
KORREKTSIA. Register acceptance of food and liquids (medicaments) in on-board log / r/g 2448
Time to prepare for departure
VIZIR. Closeout ops with СКПИ equipment,  tear down GLISSER-М and start copying r/g 2447
Check  BIOS of EXPRESS laptop in EXPRESS Rack 8
SM ventilation system prophylactics (Group В1)
Retrieve, clean and stow the item produced in 3D-printer
Inflight  maintenance – WHC – Full Fill
SOZh maintenance
AUT – preparation of equipment for stowage
AUT – retrieve samples from MELFI
Preventive maintenance program (CMS) – T2 treadmill- exercise
Search for Actiwatch Spectrums equipment
D/l via ОСА data on physical exercise
Recording of video greetings / r/g 2443
Multi Omics
AUT – preparation of samples
Multi Omics. Placement of samples into MELFI
Multi Omics. Stow equipment according to Stowage Note
VIBROLAB. Copy and d/l info to the ground / r/g 2441
Multi Omics. Modules assembly
AUT – connect MEU-B(2)
VIZIR. Closeout ops with GLISSER-М video complex and start charging battery / r/g 2447
AUT – connect MEU-B(3)
INTERACTION-2. Experiment run / r/g 2440
Imagery of Soyuz  №719 from DC1 and Cupola
БМП Ф1 absorption cartridge regeneration (term)
VIZIR. Terminate battery charge for GLISSER-М video complex
KORREKTSIA. Register acceptance of food and liquids (medicaments) in on-board log / r/g 2448

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

BEAM ingress
JEMAL ops
Nominal ground commanding

 
