06-13-2010June 13, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/13/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Sunday – Crew rest day.   Ahead: Week 2 of Increment 24.    At wake-up, CDR Skvortsov conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [CDR again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson began her day with another session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.  (Last time done: 6/9). [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   In Node-3, Caldwell-Dyson later prepared the OGS (Oxygen Generator System) in the AR (Atmosphere Revitalization) rack for tomorrow’s planned R&R (removal & replacement) of the pump ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit), opening the rack’s right access door to allow for 24-hr thermal equalization and disconnecting the O2 (oxygen) outlet hose from the N2 (nitrogen) purge ORU.     [The decision has been made to re-install the original (degraded) recirculation pump ORU in the OGS tomorrow since the temporary replacement of the ORU with a new spare pump did not cleared up the OGS problem.]   In Node-1 (loc. O4), Tracy spent part of her free time on cleaning up a locker which (in her words) “needed help”, collecting loose items in a bag after recording them for the IMS (Inventory Management System) via BCR (Bar Code Reader), etc.   FE-3 Kornienko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].   Jobs listed for Skvortsov & Kornienko today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –  Another ~40-min. run of      the GFI-8      "Uragan"      (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D2X digital camera      photography with 800mm telelens (Targets: Gulf of Mexico. Water      contamination with oil, Darwin Island - the smallest and northernmost      island [about 1 km across] in the Galapagos Archipelago, and the Kronotsk      Preserve),  A ~30-min. photography      session for the DZZ-13      “Seiner”      ocean observation program, obtaining data on oceanic water blooms in the      waters of North-Western Africa, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, and A ~30-min. session for      Russia's EKON      Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial      photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X      camera.    New preparatory material was uplinked for Tracy to review for her upcoming, environmentally quite significant Photo/Video Cloud Observation EPO (Educational Payload Operation) Demo, starting tomorrow.     [Besides the imaging activity, the activity calls for filling out a special form (S’COOL Report) listing clouds (types, cover, visual opacity) for 3 heights, including airplane contrails, plus observed ground/surface conditions).]   CDR & FE-2 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Tracy at ~5:50am, Alexander at ~8:05am EDT.   Tracy, Misha & Sasha completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).  Elektron Update:   After its overnight failure on 6/11-12, the Russian Elektron oxygen generator was successfully reactivated by TsUP-Moscow and the crew yesterday morning and restored to service.   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.   