
Neutron Star Interior Composition ExploreR (NICER) Status: Yesterday’s planned NICER deployment was not completed due to  a problem with releasing all four of the NICER launch locks. Following several attempts, the NICER team successfully released three of the four launch locks. The team continues attempts to release the fourth lock. 
NanoRacks Module-52:  The crew performed a status check of subexperiments inside NanoRacks Module-52.  Photographs were taken of the petri dishes and video was downlinked. NanoRacks Module-52 is a collection of 6 student-led biological experiments photo-documenting the life-cycle of various molds and bacteria on petri plates in microgravity.
Cardiac Stem Cells:  In support of the ongoing Cardiac Stem Cell investigation, the crew changed out media in one of the BioCell Habitats and fixated cells from the other two Habitats. They placed the fixated cells into a MELFI for return on SpX-11.  Cardiac Stem Cells investigates how microgravity affects stem cells and the factors that govern their activity to clarify the role of stem cells in cardiac biology and tissue regeneration. This investigation also supports research into the possible acceleration of the aging process in microgravity.  
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis: Two of the four Animal Habitats wiere restocked by the crew today. The other two were restocked yesterday.  The habitats were emptied, cleaned, and new food bars were installed. The rodents were transferred back to the habitats and returned to their individual stowage locations. 
Node 3 (N3) Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Water Separator: Water carryover had been previously noted in the N3 CCAA on May 3 and 4. The Low Temperature Loop (LTL) set point was raised, reducing the condensation rate in N3 and the carryover stopped. In the last few days, the N3 Water Separator Liquid Sensor Wet indication has been received multiple times, therefore, ground teams have declared the N3 CCAA Water Separator failed and are requesting to Remove & Replace the unit. Ground teams moved condensation collection to the Lab to account for the failed N3 unit. Condensation collection can remain in the Lab for approximately 28 days prior to requiring a dryout of the Lab unit.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Devise (ARED) Crank Handle Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew completed installing a new design of ARED crank handle. The new design will eliminate torqueing the crank handle center cap screw and inspecting witness marks which results in crew time savings.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

ISS HAM Radio and Video Power Down
XF305 Camcorder Setup
JEM Camera Robot Activation
JEM Camera Robot Photo
SPHERES Battery Swap
Glacier 4 Sample Remove
FAGEN. Activation of ТБУ-В No.4 at +4 deg С
Columbus Video Camera Assembly 1 Adjustment
IMS Tagup
Preparing For Upcoming MagVector Science Run
Combustion Integrated Rack Hardware Return
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Foam Bag Relocate
Measuring Partial CO Pressure in RS using US portable CSA-CP device
JEM Camera Robot Deactivation
Crew Support LAN Client Power On
JEM Camera Robot Target Marker Relocate
NanoRacks Module-52 Status 1
SPHERES Battery Swap
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Rodent Research Habitat 3 & 4 Restock
Installation of Progress 435 (DC1) docking mechanism
Conference on specifics of Progress 436 docking
SPHERES Battery Swap
Cardiac Stem Cells SABL Insertion
Cardiac Stem Cells Media Change and Fixation
SPHERES Battery Swap
LMM MELFI Sample Retrieve
Cardiac Stem Cells MELFI Sample Insertion
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Open
LMM Biophysics Plate Installation [Aborted]
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Close
Rodent Research Habitat 2 Water Check
Flight Director/ISS CREW CONFERENCE
METOX Regeneration Termination
METOX Regeneration Initiation
SPHERES Battery Swap

Completed Task List Items

Controller Panel Assembly Protective Cap Installation

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Rodent Research Habitat restock

