
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA):  Today, the crew troubleshot the SUBSA experiment that is currently located in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). The crew removed the sample ampoule, which was lodged inside the chamber bore. Additional troubleshooting is being discussed among the ground teams. The objective of the SUBSA investigation is to advance understanding of the processes involved in semiconductor crystal growth. It offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C. Samples are contained in transparent quartz or ceramic ampoules with high definition video imaging available in real-time along with remote commanding of thermal control parameters. 
Grip:  The crew completed the second of three dynamic seated GRIP operations. ESA’s Grip investigation tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects.  Results from this investigation may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments, support design and control of haptic interfaces to be used in challenging environments such as space, and provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.  
Multi-Omics:  Immediately upon awakening, a crewmember collected and processed saliva samples prior to inserting the samples into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Multi-omics analysis of human microbial-metabolic cross-talk in the space ecosystem (Multi-Omics) investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function, by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the gut microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system. 
Marrow:  A crewmember collected blood samples for their Flight Day 5 session of CSA’s Marrow today. Air samples were also collected to support the Marrow investigation. Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
External Wireless Communication System (EWC) Ethernet Cable Connection: This morning, the crew routed and installed an Ethernet cable in the US Lab needed to activate the EWC system scheduled for installation during Thursday’s US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #51 Node 2 External Wireless Communications (EWC).  Mating this cable to the J14 Gore Panel allows for a checkout of the system while the crew are outside of ISS. 
EVA Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session: Today the crew tasked with providing Intravehicular (IV) Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) support during Thursday’s US EVA #51 Node 2 EWC performed a robotics procedure review and an On-Board Training (OBT) session using ROBoT. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. 
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Multi Omics Saliva Operations
Multi Omics Saliva sample MELFI Insertion
Multi Omics Saliva Stow
Multi Omics Question
CSA Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection
Photo TV Battery Charge Initiation
CSA Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Spin Conclude
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules Sample Troubleshooting
CSA Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
CSA Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
COSMOCARD. Closeout Operations
GRIP science performance in seated position
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Checkout Part 2
Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace
Check the Results of [BKC] Laptops Antivirus Scanning and Report
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cuff Checklist Print
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Waste Water Bag (WWB) Changeout
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Rodent Research Locker Relocate
Lab External Wireless Communication System (EWC) Ethernet Cable Connection
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab 1 and 2 Unit Relocate
Photo TV Battery Charge Swap
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
CALCIUM. Session 3 of the Experiment
Casablanca 2 Server Ethernet Cable Move
Rodent Research Locker Relocate
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Photo/TV XF305 Camcorder Deploy and Trash
ISS Crew Orientation
СОЖ maintenance
Glacier Ice Brick and Cold Block Inserts
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Equipment Lock Preparation Part 1
CEVIS Handover Video Review
PAO Preparation
Photo TV Battery Charge Swap
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config Columbus Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) in Columbus
Respiratory Support Pack (RSP) – Checkout
Robotics Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
On-board Training (OBT) EVA Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
MELFI Dewar Inventory
COL1F2 Cargo Transfer Bag (CTB) Relocate
MELF2 Dewar3 Cleanout Part 1
Photo TV Battery Charge Deactivation 

Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


MCC-H Step Up
Lab MCA Zero Calibration 

