
Payloads:
Oral Biofilms in Space (OBIS): The crew hydrated the OBIS assembly session packs 6-10 with fluid flow from Fluid Bag 1 into the Fluid Chamber for 30 minutes. The mixture was allowed to sit for 4 hours and then the fluid flow was reinitiated. The session packs were then incubated for 20 hours. Fluid Bag 1 is a fluid medium containing chemicals designed to promote bacterial growth within the Fluid Chamber. Effect of Environmental Stressors on Oral Biofilm Growth and Treatment (Oral Biofilms in Space) studies the effect of gravity on the behavior of oral bacteria, including the structure of the bacterial community, and changes in bacterial response to common oral care agents. The findings could support development of novel treatments to fight oral diseases such as caries, gingivitis, and periodontitis. The investigation also could provide insights into how microgravity affects the microbiome of other mucosal surfaces in the body.
Systems:
Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload/Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA) Video Recovered – Over the weekend, teams developed a command-from-scratch to work around a software error in Mobile Servicing System (MSS) version 10.2 which prevented POA video from being routed to the ground. The new commands were tested, approved yesterday morning, and successfully executed on-board yesterday afternoon. POA video is now available for ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Flight Support Equipment (FSE) POA removal and installation tasks in support of this week’s EVAs.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew performed several activities in preparation for tomorrow’s 2B IROSA install EVA. The crew setup the Equipment Lock (E-LK) and Robotic Workstation (RWS), installed batteries into the EVA Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) and performed an EVA tool audit. Lastly, they completed a procedure review and conference with ISS ground teams.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Ground support for RSA water transfer
Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) Vacuum Leak Check [ACTIVE]

