
ISS Reboost: Last night, the ISS performed a reboost using the Aft Progress 83P rendezvous and docking (R&D) thrusters. This reboost was one in a series of reboosts to set up proper phasing conditions for the upcoming 85P 34-orbit rendezvous in August. The burn duration was 12 minutes 39 seconds with a delta-V of 1.2 m/s.
Payloads:
Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus (CGBA): CGBA-4 was removed from the EXPRESS rack and prepared for return on Cargo Dragon SpaceX-28 (SpX-28). The CGBA provides programmable, accurate temperature control for applications ranging from cold stowage to customizable incubation. The CGBA can be used in a variety of biological studies, such as protein crystal growth, small insect habitat, plant development, antibiotic-producing bacteria, and cell culture studies.
Foams and Emulsions: Hardware items were relocated or trashed to make room for new hardware flown on SpX-28. Foams (dispersions of bubbles in a liquid) and emulsions (dispersions of droplets in a liquid) appear in many food, consumer, and personal care products and are used in a variety of industries. Structure and Stability of Foams and Emulsions examines the properties and performance of foams and emulsions, including using particles of various shapes and surface roughness to stabilize these materials. Microgravity enables examination of the microstructures of foams and emulsions due to the elimination of the influence of gravity-related factors such as buoyancy of particles.
Mochii: Mochii fan vents were cleaned. Mochii is a miniature scanning electron microscope (SEM) with spectroscopy to conduct real-time, on-site imaging and compositional measurements of particles on the ISS. Such particles can cause vehicle and equipment malfunctions and threaten crew health, but currently, samples must be returned to Earth for analysis, leaving crew and vehicle at risk. Mochii also provides a powerful new analysis platform to support novel microgravity science and engineering.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The crew disconnected the USB Hard Drive 1 from PK-4 and connected it to the laptop for data downlink. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, non-linear waves, and instabilities in the plasmas.
Zero T2: Zero T2 isometric mid-thigh pull exercises were performed by a crewmember. Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, and aerobic rowing and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill there is no means of ambulating, or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking and therefore the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of no treadmill usage during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance, which is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Zero-G Oven: The Nanoracks Zero-G Oven was removed from EXPRESS Rack locker 3 in preparation for return on SpX-28. Zero-G Oven examines heat transfer properties and the process of baking food in microgravity. It uses an oven designed specifically for use aboard the space station with a top temperature of 363.3° C. On future long-duration missions, fresh-baked food could have psychological and physiological benefits for crewmembers.
Systems:
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluations: The HMS monitors crew health, responds to crew illness or injury, provides preventive health care, and provides stabilization and emergency transport between vehicles. Today the crew completed PHS evaluations using an otoscope for ear imagery and other tools for measuring and recording the crew’s temperature, blood pressure, pulse, and respiratory rate.
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: The crew completed several post-EVA activities after yesterday’s successful ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) 1B Install EVA. Their activities included an EVA debrief, water operations to recharge EVA Mobility Units (EMUs), High Definition EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) Terminate, and Robotic Workstation (RWS) Teardown.
HMS Ultrasound 2 Scan: Today, the crew performed eye exams using ultrasound equipment. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Atmosphere Revitalization System Four Bed Carbon Dioxide (4BCO2) Scrubber Samples: The crew set up hardware to collect CO2samples from 4BCO2 and then took CO2 samples for analysis on the ground. 4BCO2 is a full-scale CO2 removal Flight Demonstration Unit (FDU) to conduct a CO2 removal on-orbit technology demonstration supporting exploration-sized crews.
HMS Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection: The crew completed a routine monthly inspection of the AED and its associated consumables. The crew tested batteries and examined the outer AED case and AED Electrodes Kit. 
Brine Transfer from EDV to Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) with Urine Transfer System (UTS): The crew initiated the drain of a Brine EDV to the BPA using the Brine Transfer Hose and the Urine Transfer System (UTS). The crew also performed a BPA bladder changeout.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The fill was then terminated and the Post-Flight Analysis Bag was analyzed after the pressure relief burp. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

ACS MCS Configuration for Reboost
MSS Powerup
SPDM BDU 60 day Checkout
Cycle Lab and Cup RWS
PPS SSU 1B Shunt Test

