
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Fastener Coating and Configuration Change: The CBEF Micro-G configuration was changed to support the Mouse Epigenetics experiment and the fasteners inside the CBEF were coated with material to prevent corrosion. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility located in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack. It  is used in various life science experiments, such as cultivating cells and plants in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) and consists of an incubator and control equipment for control and communications.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) #1-2 Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers used the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Small Fine Arm (SFA) to retrieve ExHAM #1-2. ExHAM #1-2 is the first return and sample exchange mission of the 1-year exposed ExHAM#1, and currently contains 17 samples, 14 of which will be returned on SpX-9. ExHAM is a cuboid mechanism equipped with a fixture on the upper surface for grappling by the JEMRMS SFA and has components on the under surface for attaching the ExHAM to the handrail on the Exposed Facility.
 
ReEntry Breakup Recorder – Wireless (REBR-W) OA-6 Activation and Installation: The crew activated and installed the REBR-W, remote sensor units 1 – 4 and the acoustic sensor. REBR is a cost-effective system that rides a re-entering space vehicle, records data during the re-entry and breakup of the vehicle, and returns the data for analysis. Understanding how vehicles behave during atmospheric reentry gives future spacecraft developers unique information that can enhance design efficiencies and safety.
 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Microbial Air and Surface Sampling: The crew took surface and air samples for microbial analysis using the Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) with Petri Dishes. The EHS monitors the atmosphere for gaseous contaminants (i.e., from nonmetallic materials off-gassing, combustion products, and propellants), microbial contaminants (i.e., from crewmembers and Station activities), water quality, acoustics, and radiation levels.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the International Space Station. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Crew Quarters (CQ) Deck Cleaning: The crew removed and temporarily stowed all applicable panels from the CQ and cleaned the intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors. They reported there was no significant dust buildup.
 
Cygnus Departure Prep: In preparation for Cygnus unberth and departure, the crew installed the Air Revitalization System (ARS), de-routed the Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) duct, removed handrails and completed radial port closeout and closed the hatch. They installed N1 Nadir Control Panel Assembly (CPA) and configured Cygnus/N1 vestibule for de-mate. They also relocated the Portable Computer System and cables from the N2 Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) to the Cupola UOP which will provide command redundancy during departure operations. Unberth is scheduled for tomorrow at 6:30AM CDT with release at 8:30 CDT.
 
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Process Fault and Waste Water Quantity Tank Decrease – Last night the WPA shut down due to an internal fault.  The previous ocurrence of this fault was recovered with a WPA power cycle.  During data review following the fault, an unrelated and unexpected drop in the waste water quantity was found.  WPA remained in standby overnight.  This morning ground teams determined that the waste water quantity drop is consistent with air in the system.  Following a crew-actuated purge, ground controllers will command WPA back to process following the next Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) process run tonight.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HRF. Blood Samples Collection and Preparation for Stowage
RSS1,2 Reboot / r/g 1460
HRF. Insertion of Samples into MELFI
PK4. Monitor Installation
Filling In (Degassing) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV
Antivirus Software Update on [ВКС] Laptops / r/g 8247
Cygnus. PROX Power On
Charging of the First Set of GoPro HERO3 Batteries from Soyuz 719 (start)
CBEF Reconfiguration
Reentry Breakup Recorder (REBR), Motion Sensor and Acoustic Sensor Activation
Transfer of Equipment to Soyuz 719 (MRM1) for Removal / r/g 2446
UDOD. Experiment Operations with DYKHANIYE-1 and SPRUT-2 Set r/g 2504
Cable Installation in JEMRMS Bus Monitor
СОЖ Maintenance
CBEF. Fastener Coating
Inflight Maintenance. CQ Cleaning
UDOD. Photography during the Experiment / r/g 2503
BIOME Questionnaire
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Node 1 Nadir CBM Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Gather
ISS Ham Video deactivation
ECLSS. Filling in urine processing tank. Part 3.
HABIT. Experiment Procedure Review
Charging of the First Set of GoPro HERO3 Batteries from Soyuz 719 (end)
Preventive Maintenance of the Sealing Mechanism of MRM1 АСП Hatch and Soyuz 719
Egress from Cygnus
LBNP Training Assistance/ r/g 2496
CALCIUM. Session 9 of the Experiment / r/g 2502
LBNP Training (PRELIMINARY) r/g 2496
JEMRMS. RLT2 Activation
JEMAL. Slide Table extension to JEF side
Cygnus/Node 1 Vestibule Config for Unberthing
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Setup
Transfer of Equipment to Progress 431 (DC1) for Removal. IMS Update / r/g 2435
DUBRAVA. Observation and Photography with VSS Hardware / r/g 2514
Charging of the Second Set of GoPro HERO3 Batteries from Soyuz 719 (end)
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
GoPro HERO3 Camcorders Preparation and Setup for Soyuz 719 Descent
Node 1 Nadir CBM Control Panel Assembly (CPA) Installation
PILOT-T. Experiment Session r/g 2507
HAM Radio Session from Columbus
PK4. Monitor Checkout
IMS Delta File Prep
PCS installation
PK4. Hardware Setup and Report on Chamber Pressure
Cygnus/Node 1 Vestibule Config for Unberthing
JEMAL. Slide Table Retraction
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
JEMRMS Arm Bus Monitor (end)
JEMRMS. Hardware Deactivation
Vestibule Depressurization Equipment Gather
Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK) Restow
BIOME. Preparation for Samples Collection
Video Greetings / r/g 2515
Downlink of Physical Exercise Data via OCA
RELAKSATSIYA. Battery Charge for the Experiment (start) / r/g 0167
Deploy CDM in Crew Quarters

 
Completed Task List Items

iPAD cert update [Active]

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Cygnus departure prep
CQ deck cleaning
ExHAM retrieval
Nominal ground commanding

 
