
Nanoracks-Remove Debris Satellite (RemDeb): Today ground specialists used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to remove RemDeb from the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table and maneuvered to the deploy position.  RemDeb demonstrates an approach to reducing the risks presented by space debris or “space junk”. Collisions in space may have serious consequences, but research has shown that removing the largest debris significantly reduces the chance of collisions. NanoRacks-Remove Debris demonstrates using a 3D camera to map location and speed of debris and deploying a net to capture and de-orbit simulated debris up to 1m in size. Ground experts will then analyze video of the demonstration runs. Deployment of RemDeb is scheduled for 6:30 AM CT tomorrow morning. 
Human Research Program (Biochemical Profile, Marrow, and Repository):  Earlier today, a 55S crewmember collected urine and blood samples for their Flight Day 15 session of the Biochem Profile and Repository investigations and their Flight Day 10 session of CSA’s Marrow investigation. 

The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. The repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Myotones:  The crew performed Myotones skin marking science runs and transferred the data to a laptop after the conclusion of the run. ESA’s Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions. 
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME):  The crew cleaned soot from the burner that was caused during the last E Field Flame test, where a positive field drove the soot towards the burner assembly rather than away. Today’s activities will allow the science operations to resume. The ACME experiment series being performed in the CIR includes five independent studies of gaseous flames. The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth.  Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability. 
MagVector:  The crew installed a 3D sensor array in preparation for upcoming science runs. ESA’s MagVector investigation studies how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research not only helps improve future International Space Station experiments and electrical experiments, but it could offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general, the backbone of our technology.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub and Conductivity Test:  As part of the post-US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 51 activities, the crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity.  These activities are required for long term health monitoring and maintenance of the EMUs.
ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization Onboard Training (OBT): The ISS Commander guided the newly arrived 55S crew through a review of all of the ISS Emergency Hardware.  This activity provides familiarization with the locations of equipment and the positions of valves used in emergencies.  They also practiced communication from the Russian modules in case of emergency.  Following the review, they reported the results to both Moscow and Houston ground specialists.   
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Configuration
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Spin Conclude
ISS Crew Orientation
Replacement of CO2 Filter Unit ИК0501
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval And Insertion Operations
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
JEM Fire Indicator Illumination Function Checkout
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment setup.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – EVERYWEAR APP CONFIGURATION
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Questionnaire
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test
Columbus cleanup for Myotones
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Questionnaire
Myotones Big Picture Words reading
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub Initiation
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Assistance with МО-3 Test.
Myotones Kit Gathering for Session 1
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment Ops on БД-2 (MO-3 test in passive mode).
Myotones Device Setup with EPM Laptop – Session 1
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Closeout Ops.
Myotones Measurements
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Hygiene Procedures
Myotones Device Data Transfer
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Post Scrub Cooling Loop Water (H2O) Sample
Combustion Integrated Rack Hardware Gather
ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization OBT
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Iodination
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Calibration Check
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization
PILOT-T. Preparation for the experiment.
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops and Data Downlink.
ACME MWA Prep
ИП-1 sensors positioning check
PILOT. Closeout Ops.
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfiguration
Columbus cabin restore after Myotones experiment
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
PCE-VE 330 Endoscope preparation for handover to USOS (setup for charging).
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Conductivity Test
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – ESA Nutritional Assessment
3D Sensor Array Installation into COL1_F2 and Science Run Preparation
Combustion Integrated Rack Doors Open
POST EVA GLOVE PHOTOS
Docking & Internal Transfer System Inventory Check on ISS ROS МКС
Combustion Integrated Rack Front End Cap Open
FAZOPEREKHOD. Experiment Setup and Start Ops.
ACME Burner Clean
ISS Crew Orientation
Recharging of Soyuz 738 Samsung PC Battery before Training – Start
Perform Node 2 UOP 1 Cable Swap
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ (КОВ) for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Calibration Check Data Record
JEM Mesh Cover-Return Grille Cleaning
СОЖ maintenance
Clean FGB ЦВ1 Fan Protection Screen
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
URISYS Hardware Setup
UROLUX PREPARATION
FAZOPEREKHOD. Closeout Ops.
Combustion Integrated Rack Front End Cap Close
Recharging of Soyuz 738 Samsung PC Battery before Training – remove from charging
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
End of charging and PCE-VE 330 Endoscope handover to USOS
Receiving Endoscope PCE-VE 330 from RS
Stow Syringes used in H2O Conductivity Test 

Completed Task List Activities:

GIS-Simple-Trash
P/TV-CANON Charger-Swap

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


JEMAL Slide Table Extend
SPDM remove Kaber & RemDeb from JEMAL Slide Table
JEMAL Slide Table Retract
UPA Manual Pumpdown 

