
Payloads:
Fluid Dynamics in Space (FLUIDICS): FLUIDICS hardware was installed and recording system troubleshooting was performed. The troubleshooting efforts were unsuccessful, but will be re-attempted. The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL): The used MSL Low Gradient Furnace (LGF) Sample Cartridge (Growth Ternary Compound Semiconductor (GTCS)) was removed, and the next Sample Cartridge (Copper Indium Sulfate Defect Growth (CISDG)) was installed and prepared for a science run. The MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. The MSL can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules. Many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied in this way to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
Polar: Desiccant swaps were performed on Polar units 4 and 5. Polar is a Cold Stowage managed facility that provides transport and storage of science samples at cryogenic temperatures (-80ºC) to and from the ISS. Polar operates on 75 W supplied power and uses air cooling as its heat rejection method. Polar can accommodate up to 12.75 liters of sample volume and 20 lbm, including sample support equipment.
Ring Sheared Drop: The current sample, Test Cell, and Ring Sheared Drop hardware were removed from the MSG Work Volume and stowed. The Ring Sheared Drop investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid. Amyloids – fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues – are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Space Acceleration Measurement System-II (SAMS-II): The SAMS Tri-Sensor Head (TSH) mounted in Express Rack 6 was relocated to the Materials Science Research Rack-1 (MSRR-1) rack. SAMS-II is an on-going study of the small forces (vibrations and accelerations) on the ISS resulting from the operation of hardware, crew activities, dockings, and maneuvering. Results generalize the types of vibrations affecting vibration-sensitive experiments and structural life of ISS. Investigators and Structural Analysts seek to better understand the vibration environment on the ISS using SAMS-II data and assessing station loads and dynamics.
Systems:
LAB1D6 Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Mass Spectrometer Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew disconnected the rack-front and rack-rear MCA utilities and pulled the MCA Drawer to access the MCA Mass Spectrometer. The crew then performed the MCA Mass Spectrometer R&R, closed out the drawer, and secured the rack. The MCA is a mass spectrometer that monitors O2, N2, CO2, H2, H2O, and CH4in the air, and calculates the percent concentration and partial pressures of these constituents. The MCA was replaced after the previous unit failed late last year due to filament faults.
Columbus European IP Communication Laptop (EICL) ZBooks UltraBay Hard Drive R&R: As part of planned troubleshooting, the crew installed, connected and re-label the EICL #2 ZBook in Columbus in preparation for the UltraBay Hard Disk Drive (HDD) swap. The crew then used the Multi-Purpose Computer and Communication (MPCC) USB Stick to wipe both EICL HDDs prior to removing the ZBook 1TB UltraBay HDD from EICL #2 and the EICL #1 ZBooks in Columbus. The crew attempted to reboot EICL #1 from the internal HDD, but EICL did not reboot properly, and the crew the returned the EICL to its original configuration.
Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 59 Preparation Activities: In preparation for Thursday’s Russian EVA, the crew removed the Li-Ion Batteries from the Battery Stowage Compartment and gathered and transferred EVA tools. The EVA Helmet Interchangeable Portable Light (EHIP) Power Adapter Module, Helmet Light, EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) TV, and High-Definition (HD) EMU Camera, and retractable tethers (RETs) were transferred from the EMU to the Russian Segment.
Completed Task List Activities:

Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4, Unit Relocation [GMT 167]
PMM Endcone Shuffle [GMT 168]
WHC KTO Replace [GMT 169]

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

CCS SMCC Data Dump
EPS ORU Data Dumps

