06-13-2009June 13, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/13/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – light-duty day for CDR Gennady Padalka (Russia), FE-1 Michael Barratt (USA), FE-2 Koichi Wakata (Japan), FE-3 Roman Romanenko (Russia), FE-4 Robert Thirsk (Canada), FE-5 Frank DeWinne (Belgium).     After this morning’s scrub of the Endeavour STS-127-2J/A launch, due to an external H2 leak at the GUCP (Ground Umbilical Carrier Plate), similar to what was seen on STS-119/15A, the crew’s onboard schedule was adjusted commensurately in real time, including postponement of the planned sleep cycle shifting.   Upon wakeup (~2:00am EDT), Mike Barratt & Koichi Wakata continued their new recording rounds for the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight) logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.  It is the third for Mike, the fourth for Koichi.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, Mike & Koichi wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Later, the FE-1 set up the PC1 (Payload Computer 1) in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), attaching it to the Actiwatch Reader and downloading/initializing the Actiwatch devised for himself, Wakata, Thirsk & DeWinne.  The hardware was then decabled again and the laptop powered down.   CDR Padalka conducted the frequent status check on the Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment, verifying proper operation of the BU Control Unit and MIS-LADA Module fans (testing their air flow by hand).   [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-15 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]   After readying the video equipment for recording the subsequent activity, Koichi Wakata (Subject) & Bob Thirsk undertook the PFE protocol, a monthly 1.5-hr. procedure which checks up on blood pressure and electrocardiogram (ECG) during programmed exercise on the CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation) in the Lab.  Bob, who performed his PFE assessment four days ago (6/9), assisted the FE-2 as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Readings were taken with the BP/ECG (blood pressure/electrocardiograph) and the HRM (heart rate monitor) watch with its radio transmitter.  Afterwards, the video gear was stowed again.    [BP/ECG provides automated noninvasive systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements while also monitoring and displaying accurate heart rates on a continual basis at rest and during exercise.  During previous PFE sessions, issues have been reported with the BP cuff ops.  The BP/ECG requires good ECG data to operate and record an accurate BP reading.  Correct placement of the microphone and securely donning the BP cuff will aid in this.  The video coverage is required for biomechanical evaluation of the on-orbit crewmember, and evaluation of the on-orbit setup of equipment during data collection.]   The FE-4 was scheduled to set up the U.S. Scopemeter battery for charging from the SMPA (Service Module Power Adapter) in preparation for the JPM EFBM (JEM Pressurized Module External Facility Berthing Mechanism) activities.    [The SMPA connects to the Russian power system with U.S. cables and transforms the Russian 28 volts direct current to 12VDC for the battery.]   Also in preparation for the arrival of the ICS-EF (Inter-orbit Communication System-External Facility), Bob was to replace two ICS checkout jumpers with two MIL Bus 1553 data lines for communicating with the ICS-EF.   In the DMS-1 (Data Management System) rack in the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Wakata performed R&R (removal & replacement) of an electronic component (SSEDSU), which failed last night, taking down one of Kibo’s two main computers, JCPa (JEM Control Processor a).    [SSIPC (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center)/Tsukuba switched over to the JCPb computer to keep the JPM functioning, and Koichi’s R&R was to restore redundancy.  The DMS Racks house the JEM JCP and payload data handling units.  One JCP is installed in DMS Rack-1 at JPM1O5, and the other in DMS Rack-2.]   Thirsk & DeWinne had ~1.5h reserved to continue prepacking and staging cargo for 2J/A.   Working on the FDS PEP (Fire Detection & Suppression/Portable Emergency Provisions), Mike Barratt temporarily relocated three PBA (Portable Breathing Apparatus) units from the JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment), JPM and COL to the U.S. Airlock, stowing them behind the ORCA for the 2J/A EVAs.   Mike & Koichi continued 2J/A EVA tool configuration work, Part 2 of a scheduled three-part activity.   In the “Pirs” DC1 (Docking Compartment), CDR Padalka terminated the discharge of Orlan 825M3 battery pack 2 and started the process on Pack 3.   FE-3 Romanenko performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Gennady did the periodic maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM & FGB by cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting the POTOK in automatic mode.   Frank DeWinne meanwhile worked in the USOS (US Segment), performing the periodic cleaning of the THC IMV (Temperature & Humidity Control Intermodular Ventilation) ducting between the Lab and Node-2 and taking IMV flow measurements between modules with the electronic Velocicalc instrument.    [Crew report: “CO2 in Lab = 0.52%; CO2 in SM = 0.51%.  When facing the aft port IMV valve, it is very clear that the left side (inboard) has little airflow compared to the middle and right side (as also indicated by the measurements). Also bottom par has less flow than the upper part.”  Note: There is no direct measurement of airflow except as reflected by, and calculated from, differences in atmosphere partial pressures measured at selected points between the RS and USOS.  ppCO2 is a good yardstick since for example an increasing ppCO2 in the Lab not reflected in the SM would indicate that Vozdukh is not receiving the air from the Lab at an efficient rate.  Periodic air flow degradation checks support establishing a most effective fan cleaning schedule.  CO2 is measured on board in percentage (i.e., concentration).  To convert to mmHg, multiply the percentage value (e.g., 0.52%) by the current cabin pressure (e.g., 760 mmHg) and divide by 100 (example result: 3.9 mmHg).]   Frank also worked on the TVIS (Treadmill Vibration Isolation and Stabilization, inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Positioning Devices) and SLD cables, marking any visible SLD damages and being assisted by the crew in photographing them.  Afterwards, the SLDs were re-installed.   In the Lab, DeWinne re-installed the alignment guides on the FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility) in the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) to lock down the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System).   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).   [On the CEVIS, the actual loads remain slightly lower than the commanded loads, but this was expected.  A manual correction of the pertinent calibration coefficient via the control panel touch screen will be done at a later time when the new value has been determined.]    Later, Frank transferred the exercise data file to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).   The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for Roman & Gennady today had three suggested job items –  Transferring urine to Progress      33P’s BV2 Rodnik tank, Another run of the GFI-8      "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D2X      digital camera photography (with 800mm telelens), and A session for Russia's      Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and taking KPT-3      aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using the Nikon      D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.   Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty -- Week 2)  3-D SPACE:   Planned.   AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    Plans are currently underway to troubleshoot the problems that were last seen with the AgCam hardware.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):   Standing by.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    BCAT-4 ongoing.  BCAT-5 to be launched on 2J/A.  BIOLAB (ESA):   No report.   Biological Rhythms (JAXA):   Second measurement on board for Mike Barratt has started.  Third measurement (the final on board) for him will be planned just one week before return.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    “Thank you, Bob & Frank, for your support to this investigation.”  BISPHOSPHONATES:   “Koichi, thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Your next session is scheduled for 6/15.  Bob, thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Your next session is scheduled for 6/15.”  CARD (Long Term Microgravity: A Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):   Complete.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility):   Complete.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):   “Mike, thanks for completing your CCISS data download from the task list.  We are working to downlink the data to send to the PI.”  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Complete.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack):    MDCA/Flex: “This week we plan to rerun one previous heptane test point and run one new heptane test point.  We certainly appreciate the effort to move the “water wall” away from contact with the CIR so we can determine what our true microgravity environment looks like and see if our earlier test points might have been influenced by the objects being against the rack.  If the two test points are successful this time, we will be able to obtain a better idea of what the microgravity influences are on droplet deployment.  Thanks again!”  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial 2 (JAXA):   Completed.  Commercial 3 (JAXA):   Completed.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):   Planned.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):   No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   ENose (Electronic Nose):   Operating.  EPM (European Physiology Module):   Underway.   EPO (Educational Payload Operations):   Reserve.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):  Self video shooting for 10 science missions completed by Koichi.  MPC downlink was also completed.”   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   Planned.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):   “VS #3 (Two-some: arm-wrestling, a handshake, a pushing technique and a tug of war) has been completed on last weekend.  With the cooperation of Robert Thirsk from CSA, Koichi showed great performances to demonstrate the principle of action and reaction in 0G in addition to his solo performances.  Their witty performances made the media people laugh and we really appreciate Koichi and Robert's skillful camera arrangement.  Thanks to their efforts, this educational and media opportunity was a great success.”  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   “Additional photo was very interesting.  Thank you.  Please keep photo in proprietary folder when you download them.”  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  EuTEF (European Technology Exposure Facility):    EuTEF platform and its instruments have been running nominally during this reporting period. --DEBIE-2: A new script was started on 6/10; -- EXPOSE: On-going science acquisition.  On 6/9, the valves of the Experimental Trays were opened after having been closed for the NH3 venting event;-- FIPEX: On-going science acquisition.  On 6/9, the valves of the Experimental Trays were opened after having been closed for the NH3 venting event; -- MEDET: On-going science acquisition. Performing nominal commanding after concluding micro-calorimeter campaign;-- TRIBOLAB: An integrity check of the motor was performed on 6/5 and Ball Bearing 4 experiment was run for several hours and science was acquired before an anomaly occurred.  It is planned to test the Ball Bearing 1 experiment on 6/12.  FACET (JAXA):   “Experiment number from 35 to 39 has finished.  All experiments were complete yesterday (6/12) as planned.  Nucleation and homogenization are going well.”  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory):   Activated for MMA measurements to support PCDF.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   To be launched by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   Complete.  HQPC (JAXA):   To be launched by 34P.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):   “Bob, thanks to you and Frank for a successful FD14 ICV resting Echo session.  The ground team was very pleased with the quality of the echo images obtained from the scan and hope that you enjoyed your post-echo coffee.  We are all looking forward to the ambulatory monitoring activities next week as we continue with the inaugural session of the ICV experiment!”  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    Complete.  KUBIK-FM1/ KUBIK-FM2 Centrifuge/Incubators:    Completed.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):      Completed.  Marangoni Experiment for ISS in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    In progress.    MAXI (JAXA):   Ongoing.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  “Third Micro G measurement for TCQ (Temporary Crew Quarters) was performed to investigate how microgravity disturbance will transmit to the Ryutai rack.  Data is now being investigated. We caught Koichi’s tapping clearly by MMA sensor and it is good reference for analysis.”  MISSE (Materials ISS Experiment):  Ongoing.  Moon Photography from ISS (JAXA EPO):   One run performed on the last day of Increment 18.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    Frank performed a data transfer between EPM and the MPPLL on 6/5.  This was successfully completed and there is now a back-up of the NEUROSPAT data from both sessions.  “Frank, thank you for making it possible for us to monitor the data transfer progress via video.”   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY:    Ongoing.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):   Continuing radiation dose accumulation.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):    The EP2 Cycle2-rerun is on-going. In the last week PCDF suffered 3 spontaneous reboots and each time the Cycle2 was resumed. This reactor is dedicated to study the phenomena of protein depletion zone apparition during crystal growth phase. This cycle was stopped on 06/11 (GMT162) and the science team has started a nucleation cycle EP3 Cycle5. MMA measurements are being performed to support this cycle.  The EP4 reactor still contains some nice crystals to be returned by 2J/A.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):   Ongoing.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SEDA-AP (JAXA):   Exposed Payload,- to be launched by 2JA.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):   “Koichi, you are currently completing your last week of in-flight sleep logging.  We look forward to seeing you on the ground!  Bob & Frank, thanks for completing your first week of sleep loggings.  They will be scheduled every third week.”   SMILES (JAXA):   Exposed Payload, to be launched by HTV1.   SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):     The Sun visibility window ended on 6/4, and the next Sun visibility window is predicted to start on 6/13.  –SOLSPEC: awaiting start of Sun Visibility window; --SOLACES: awaiting start of Sun Visibility window.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):   No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    Reserve.    SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   Planned.  Swab (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   Complete.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    VLE-1 completed.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    Complete/Planned (2J/A Stage).  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   Through 6/9, the ground has received a total of 12,241 of ISS CEO imagery for review and cataloguing.   [“We are pleased to confirm your acquisition of views of the following targets:  Sevastopol, Ukraine – excellent imagery – this target can be removed from our list; Port of Santa Cruz, Tenerife, Canary Islands – fine images, both context and detailed – requirements for this HMS Beagle site have been met; and Mount Etna, Sicily – striking, detailed views of the summit and calderas with flecks of snow cover – this target’s seasonal requirements have also been met.  Nice work!  Your best-ever image of Saint Helena Island, South Atlantic Ocean will be published this weekend on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website.  This small, isolated target is one of our HMS Beagle sites that we requested and you acquired on GMT Day 127.  Thanks for your successful effort on this challenging target.”]   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Volga - Ural Delta, Russia (the Volga is the longest river in Europe, it drains much of western Russian and empties into the Caspian Sea.  Since 1978 Caspian Sea level has risen over 2 meters, submerging valuable wetland habitats.  Shallow coastlines like the Volga delta are especially sensitive to sea level rise.  Taking broad context views of the delta which should have appeared to the left of track.  CEO will use these kinds of images to document coastal changes), Milan, Italy (Crew Site: Milan is the second largest city in Italy. Urban population is estimated at 3.08 million.  Overlapping imagery is requested. Looking slightly right of your descending pass), Presqu’ile Impact Crater, Quebec, Canada (CEO has no images of this particular impact crater in its database.  Presqu'ile crater is 24 kilometers in diameter and is estimated to be less than 500 million years old.  ISS had a nadir pass over this crater), and Madrid, Spain (Crew Site: Madrid is the capital and largest city in Spain and is the fourth most populous urban area in Europe.  The city should have been almost nadir.  Overlapping images of the city were requested).   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).   