06-14-2011June 14, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/14/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      CDR Borisenko & FE-1 Samokutyayev conducted the periodic pre-breakfast session of the Russian biomedical routine assessment PZEh-MO-7/Calf Volume Measurement.  Afterwards, Andrey & Aleksandr were joined by FE-3 Garan, FE-4 Volkov, FE-5 Furukawa & FE-6 Fossum in completing the PZEh-MO-8/Body Mass Measurement using the IMT mass measurement device set up by Samokutyayev.      [For determining body mass in zero-G, where things are weightless but not massless, the Russian IMT "scales" for MO-8 measure the inertial forces that arise during the oscillatory motion of a mass driven by two helical metering springs with known spring constants.  By measuring the time period of each oscillation of the unknown mass (the crewmember) and comparing it to the period of a known mass, the crewmember’s mass is calculated by the computer and displayed. MO-7 Calf measurements (left leg only) are taken with the IZOG device, a custom-sewn fabric cuff that fits over the calf, using the knee and lower foot as fixed reference pints, to provide a rough index of deconditioning in zero-G and effectiveness of countermeasures. ] Later, Volkov undertook his first onboard session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.  Borisenko provided assistance and took documentary photography.      [For the session, Sergei donned the electrode cap, prepared his head for the electrodes, and applied electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.] In the US A/L (Airlock), Mike Fossum terminated the regeneration process on METOX (Metal Oxide) canisters #0021 & #0005 in the “bakeout” oven.     [Recyclable METOX canisters replaced the old one-way/expendable LiOH (lithium hydroxide) canisters as carbon dioxide (CO2) removal system in the EMU/spacesuits in 2001.  During use, CO2 is absorbed by them and later removed through a special valve opening by “baking” (heating), which takes place in a special oven in the A/L.] In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Furukawa prepared MELFI-3 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 3) for Stage ULF6 preservative storage needs by retrieving 4 ice bricks (-32 degC) and one half Box Module and inserting them in Dewar 2, Tray A/Sections 1, 2. Afterwards, Satoshi supported the JAXA 2DNT (2D Nano Template) payload in Kibo by conducting and photographing the first session, Experiment 1.      [Activities included retrieving one 2DNT Ziploc bag from MELFI-3 (inserted there by Ron on 5/19), setting up the NIKON D2Xs camera, releasing the closure of Template Kit 2, transferring the peptide solution to the space around the Base plate to start peptide alignment, taking photographs of the 4 sample bags and returning them in their Kit to MELFI-3 Dewar 3, set at +2 degC.  2DNT will generate a nano arrangement on SiC (Silicon Carbide) and mica substrates in peptide solution that will be used to create templates (large and highly oriented nanoscale two-dimensionally arranged arrays) of electronic materials on Earth.] Furukawa also performed troubleshooting on the JAXA Kibo SLT (System Laptop Terminal), rebooting the laptop which had experienced a recurrence of communications failure on 6/10. Ron Garan conducted the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.     [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.] Afterwards, Ron performed his 3rd session of the new Treadmill Kinematics program on the T2/COLBERT treadmill, setting up the HD camcorder in Node-1, placing tape markers on his body, recording a calibration card in the FOV (Field of View) and then conducting the workout run within a specified speed range.       [Purpose of the Kinematics T2 experiment is to collect quantitative data by motion capture from which to assess current exercise prescriptions for participating ISS crewmembers.  Detailed biomechanical analyses of locomotion will be used to determine if biomechanics differ between normal and microgravity environments and to determine how combinations of external loads and exercise speed influence joint loading during in-flight treadmill exercise.  Such biomechanical analyses will aid in understanding potential differences in gait motion and allow for model-based determination of joint & muscle forces during exercise. The data will be used to characterize differences in specific bone and muscle loading during locomotion in the two gravitational conditions.  By understanding these mechanisms, appropriate exercise prescriptions can be developed that address deficiencies.] Collecting cabin atmosphere samples, FE-1 Samokutyayev used a Russian AK-1M absorber in the SM (Service Module) & FGB for air, an AK-1M-F sampler in the SM for Freon, and IPD-CO & -NH3 Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the SM cabin air for CO (Carbon Monoxide) and NH3 (Ammonia), resp.  The samplers were stowed in kits for subsequent return to Earth. Sasha also downloaded the structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer of the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.    [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.] CDR Borisenko performed the periodic verification of the automatic refresh of the IUS AntiVirus program on the Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p & RSK2.       [After first scanning the FS (File Server) laptop, the virus database is usually transferred by flash-card to the non-network computers, which are then scanned one by one.   Background:  Regularly on Mondays (except for today), automatic virus definition file updates are verified on the RSS2, RSS1, RSK1-T61p & RSK2 network laptops, while the non-networked laptops RSE-Med & RSE1 are manually updated.  Antivirus scans are then started & monitored on RSS2 & RSE-Med.  Results of the scans on RSS1, RSK1-T61p, RSK2 & RSE1 are verified on Tuesdays.  Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p & RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.] Andrey also continued the installation of components for the new Russian experimental SLS Laser Communications System (LCS) in the SM, TEKh-39, today installing the BTLS-V (FA-634) block (checked out recently, see 5/31) and connecting its associated RSE-LCS A31p laptop.  A functionality test followed.  The work was supported by ground specialist tagup via S-band. Later, the CDR conducted periodic routine maintenance in the SM’s ASU toilette facility, changing out replaceable parts with new components, such as a filter insert (F-V), the urine receptacle (MP), the pre-treat container (E-K) with its hose and the DKiV pre-treat & water dispenser.  All old parts were trashed for disposal, and the IMS (Inventory Management System) was updated.      [E-K contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H2SO4 (sulfuric acid), CrO3 (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple color), and H2O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed with water in the DKiV dispenser and used for toilet flushing.] Each of the “new” crewmembers, Sergei, Satoshi & Mike, took the monthly O-OHA (On-Orbit Hearing Assessment) test, a 30-min NASA environmental health systems examination to assess the efficacy of acoustic countermeasures, using a special software application on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.      [The O-OHA audiography test involves minimum audibility measurements for each ear over a wide range of frequencies (0.25-10 kHz) and sound pressure levels, with the crewmembers using individual-specific Prophonics earphones, new Bose ANC headsets (delivered on 30P) and the SLM (sound level meter).  To conduct the testing, the experimenter is supported by special EarQ software on the MEC, featuring an up/down-arrow-operated slider for each test frequency that the crewmember moves to the lowest sound pressure level at which the tone can still be heard.  The baseline test is required not later than about Flight Day 14 for each new Expedition and is then generally performed once per month.  Note: There has been temporary hearing deficits documented on some U.S. and Russian crewmembers, all of which recovered to pre-mission levels.] Garan, Fossum & Furukawa had ~55 min set aside for continuing ATV2 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 2) cargo operations, loading excessed equipment and trash on the vehicle based on updated ATV2 Cargo & ATV2 Choreography lists uplinked from the ground. In preparation for Progress M-11M/43P docking at SM aft nadir on 6/23, Samokutyayev & Volkov conducted the standard 40-min. vehicle-to-vehicle TORU test between the SM and the DC1 nadir-docked Progress M-10M/42P (#410), closely monitored by ground personnel on DO14 via S-band.  Progress thrusters (DPO) were inhibited and not involved.     [The TORU teleoperator system lets an SM-based crewmember perform the approach & docking of automated Progress vehicles manually in case of failure of the KURS radio-based autopilot.] As one of their first “handover” activities, Ron & Mike had ~90 min to perform routine preventive maintenance on the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment), removing & replacing the urine receptacle & hose and insert filter.  After the replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was performed. At ~11:25pm EDT, the six-member crew joined for the important 1.5-hr Crew Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review (peredacha smeniy po bezopasnosti), to familiarize themselves with procedures and escape routes in case of an emergency, and to clarify emergency roles & responsibilities.  CDR Andrey Borisenko went through formally listed procedures in discussing the ISS prime to non-prime crew emergency roles & responsibility agreements established during ground training.  A 20-min ground specialist tagup wrapped up the obligatory session.      [Safety is of primary concern on board.  Safety Handover includes safety-related items such as (1) emergency actions, equipment and individual crew roles & responsibilities for the four hazard areas (depressurization, fire, ammonia release, non-ammonia toxic release), (2) visiting vehicles docking/undocking, (3) evacuation vehicles, (4) crew life support system status, (5) computers, (6) communications, (7) medical equipment & provisions, (8) stowage, (9) IVA hazards (e.g., sharp edges, protrusions, touch temperatures) and (10) stowage and current hardware status.  Aboard the station are 2 potential sources of Toxic Level 4-chemicals (external thermal loops; Vozdukh) and 7 Tox-2 sources such as Elektron, METOX cans, LiOH cans and batteries.  Prime/non-prime crew roles assignments: the CDR will be responsible for crew headcount; for Fire in the RS (Russian Segment), the three cosmonauts will be prime, i.e. responsible for generally working the response, while Garan, Furukawa & Fossum would stay in their respective Soyuz vehicles or other safe areas; for Rapid Depress, designated crewmembers would calculate the all-important T.res (remaining time), manipulate valves & hatches, run procedures & coordinate communications; for a Toxic Leak (ammonia), each crewmember is assigned specific tasks in retrieving respirators, detection kits, Sokol suits, go-to locations, etc.  Soyuz vehicle preparations for descent could be required very quickly.  In the event that a member of the “older” 26S crew becomes incapacitated during emergency response, the whole crew will stop response and return to their Soyuz.  The “newer” 27S crew may, after conferring with the ISS CDR, egress their Soyuz and finish the response in this case.] Fossum & Furukawa checked out and familiarized themselves with the CMRS (Crew Medical Restraint System).      [The board-like CMRS allows strapping down a patient on the board with a harness for medical attention by the CMO (Crew Medical Officer) who is also provided with restraints around the device.  CMRS can be secured to the ISS structure within two minutes to provide a patient restraint surface for performing emergency medical procedures, such as during ACLS (advanced cardiac life support).  It can also be used to transport a patient between the station and the Orbiter middeck.  It isolates the crew and equipment electrically during defibrillations and pacing electrical discharges, accommodates the patient in the supine zero-G positions, provides cervical spine stabilization and can also restrain two CMOs at the same time during their delivery of medical care.] Afterwards, Mike & Satoshi also checked out & familiarized themselves with the HMS RSP (Health Maintenance System Respiratory Support Pack), using RSP #1004 for the purpose, then stowing it in a drawer in the Lab.  Working with the 27S-delivered JAXA RBO-3 MATRYOSHKA-R PADLE (Passive Area Dosimeters for Lifescience Experiment) payload, Satoshi deployed 17 area dosimeters on the walls of the JPM and JPL (JEM Pressurized Logistics Segment) and then took documentary photography. Sasha conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Andrey meanwhile took care of the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). For future replacements of RODF (Russian Operations Data File) pages in the onboard ring books, Borisenko took measurements of the distance between the punched holes for the IFM IVA (Inflight Maintenance Intravehicular Activities) book. Afterwards, Andrey unpacked new 27S-delivered RODF material and deployed it in its respective books.      [This involved updates for the books on Medical Operations (MO Book 1, MO Book 2), Technical Experiments (TE), Biotechnology Experiments (BTKh), ISS-27/28 Handover Recommendations (RPS MKS 27/87), EVA-29, DC1 Egress with Q-Cards for Repress/Depress Ops, plus 1 ODF CD-ROM.] For the upcoming departure of the ATV2 “Johannes Kepler”, Samokutyayev went on a search to find and gather components of the ATV PCE (Proximity Communications Equipment; Russian: MBRL) hardware, to be assembled in the SM behind panels 226 & 227.    [The equipment involves the MBRL AFU (Antenna Feeder Unit), BUAP Antenna Switch Control Unit and the ATV Control Panel with its stand.] “Spiderman” Ron Garan completed the periodic servicing of the CGBA-5 Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5) with its CSI (Science Insert), deactivating & decabling CGBA-5, accessing CSI-05, performing spider feeding activity, then closing up CGBA, recabling and reactivating it.      [SHAB (Spider Hab) video is monitoring for 24 hours after feeding activity unit.  The spider is called the Nephila clavipes.  It is also known as the “Banana Spider” because of its yellow banana shaped body.  It is sometimes referred to as the “Golden Silk” or “Golden Orb” spider because its web has a golden hue when viewed in the sunlight.  It is commonly found in the southern parts of the US, particularly Florida, but it can be found throughout all parts of the southern United States including Alabama and Texas.  The two spiders in the habitats are juvenile females and are only about ½ in. long.  When female Nephila clavipes complete their last molt and become mature adults, they can be over 3 in. long and their webs over 3 ft across.  (Unfortunately, these space spiders will most likely not live until adulthood nor will they get quite that large).  To keep the spiders as healthy as possible for as long as possible, they are given a diet of wild type fruit flies.  The fruit flies are provided a diet enriched with extra protein.  The protein is ground-up dog food that is added to their normal diet of potato flakes.  The spider scientists are interested in the Nephila clavipes because she builds a three-dimensional web on the ground that appears disorganized but is in fact very ordered.  The hypothesis is these spiders will not build as much 3 dimension into their web given the absence of gravity.  This may help scientists more clearly understand the purpose of the 3D web on Earth.]  The three newcomers, Satoshi, Mike & Sergei, had their free time (~1 hr) for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it. FE-4, FE-5 & FE-6 were scheduled for their 5th post-launch PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Sergei at ~1:50pm, Mike at ~2:50pm, Satoshi at ~3:25pm EDT. Before “Presleep” period tonight, Garan will power on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.] Shortly before sleep time, Sergei Volkov will prepare the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his first experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1).  Volkov exercised for half of the protocol, on the T2. ISS Reboost Update:  Last Sunday’s two ISS reboosts by ATV2 OCS (Orbit Correction System) thrusters were highly precise, but they caused an unexpected power balance issue:  Battery states of charge were lower than expected due to the difficulty of predicting equipment power draws and modeling of shadowing patterns at the currently high solar Beta angle (peaking at 75 deg tomorrow).  To better manage battery charge, the original plan of another set of dual reboosts this weekend was changed today by the IMMT (ISS Mission Management Team).  The new plan is to perform a single reboost burn tomorrow (6/15), another single burn on Friday (5/17) and to reserve Saturday (5/18) for a backup single-burn reboost.  The 4B and 2A BGAs (Beta Gimbal Assemblies) will be kept in Autotrack for these events. Soyuz 27S Docking Update:    According to RSC-Energia, there was a difficulty with 27S docking due to failure of one of the Soyuz thrusters.  Specialists are investigating, and more information will be available next week.  The docking itself went smoothly.  There are no changes to standard emergency 27S undocking procedures because different thrusters would be used.  If a different procedure is employed, the thruster which malfunctioned may be used.  RSC-E will send up a change patch to the off-nominal procedures via radiogram today which will impose some limitations on thruster activations. CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked today were Polar Mesospheric Clouds over Northern Asia.  [Current daylight-awake orbit tracks have transitioned into a seasonal pattern in which they temporarily parallel the terminator.  Consequently most of the nadir views of CEO target areas fall below the criteria for illumination, with darkness to the right of track and adequate lighting left of track.  Today none of the standard target areas has sufficient illumination.  This condition is expected to persist for the next 7-10 days.  Meanwhile, CEO researchers are continuing to look for dynamic events targets for which oblique views to left of track may be useful or nighttime targets.  Auroral activity in the Northern Hemisphere has spiked recently with the dramatic solar flare on 6/7.  May-June is also the seasonal peak period for observing noctilucent clouds (a.k.a. polar mesospheric clouds) in the Northern Hemisphere.] 