
Change of Command Ceremony: In preparation for 41S crew departure tomorrow, Virts handed over command of the ISS to Padalka this morning. During the event, all crew members discussed with Houston and Russian Flight Control Teams their roles and responsibilities for the timeframe between this event and the departure of Soyuz.
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: Kelly, Cristoforetti, and Kornienko performed a suite of HRP activities today.  Kelly and Cristoforetti each collected saliva and urine samples and inserted in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for Microbiome, Salivary Markers.  Kelly also collected samples for Twins Study, Biochemical Profile, and Cardio Ox.  Kelly and Kornienko performed their Fine Motor Skills (FMS) and Reaction Self-Test (RST) activities.

The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
Salivary Markers samples will be used to measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays.
Twins Study is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple PI’s at multiple centers.  The studies take advantage of a very unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, one of whom experiences space travel for one year; the other mains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
Cardio Ox determines whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Crew members provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, three sessions while in space, and again post-flight. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries will be obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
Fine Motor Skills addresses how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
Reaction Self-Test is a portable, five-minute task that enables astronauts to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while in space. Sleep restrictions and residual effects from sleep medications, slam shifts that change the sleep/wake cycle, and effects from spacewalks can cause fatigue and degrade astronaut performance. Periodically during the mission, and in association with major events, an astronaut performs a reaction-time test on a computer to measure changes in responses.

Crew Quarters (CQ) Starboard Cleaning: In preparation for his departure from the ISS, Virts cleaned his CQ including intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


TWIN – Saliva Sample Collection
HRF Sample Collection and Stowage Prep
Self-Reaction Test. Reaction Time Test (morning)
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Urine Sample Collection
TWIN – Urine Sample Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
WRM – Potable bus sample 
ТК 715 Return Stowage / r/g 8970
NAPOR-miniRSA. Cleaning БЗУ-М vents / r/g 9058
Analysis of SM Atmosphere for Freon Using Freon Leak Analyzer/Detector (ФИТ)
FINEMOTR – Experiment Ops
STRUKTURA. Deactivation of crystallization process r/g 9055
STRUKTURA.  Photography during mixing ops / r/g 9056
TWIN – Urine Sample Collection
BIOSIGNAL. Hardware Transfer to ТК 715 r/g 9054
Transfer of LUCH-2 kit to Soyuz 715 / r/g 9055
Fine Motor Skills – Experiment Ops
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Repeat 06/08/15 Data Downlink. / r/g 9059
Data Prep for Return
Connecting Sony DC-V700 charger to b/u LIV Video power feeder.  / r/g 9061
HRF Urine Sample Collection
Crew Quarter Cleaning
ПС1, ПС2 Dust Collector Filter Replacement in FBG
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
TWIN – Blood Collection Hardware Setup
TWIN – Urine Sample Collection
Comm Check and Ops from ТК 715 via RGS
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Soyuz 715 P/L Container Transfer Operations Report r/g 8970
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Download Pille Dosimeter Readings / r/g 9044
HRF Urine Sample Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF- Blood collection setup
Personal Medication Stowage
URAGAN. Observation and photography using Photo Equipment / r/g 9057
TWIN – Urine Sample Collection
IMS Delta File Prep
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Signing ISS RS Handover Protocol / r/g 9040
CONTENT. Experiment Ops / r/g 9053
PAO Event
Health Maintenance System Med Pack Prelanding-Medication
HRF Urine Sample Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Change of Command Ceremony
CQ Audio Cable Configuration
Self-Reaction Test. Reaction Time Test (evening)
ТПК 715 [СА] cool down prior to descent 
VLV КР1  “ХСА MIN”,
VLV КР2 ХСА MAX

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed schedule unless otherwise noted.


CQ cleaning 

