06-14-2010June 14, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/14/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       Underway: Week 2 of Increment 24.   Starting out, FE-3 Kornienko conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  At wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson continued her current session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Caldwell-Dyson also began another week-long session of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), her 4th, transferring data from her Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Mikhail Kornienko had 2h 50m reserved for doing his 3rd onboard session with the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment after setting up the workplace and equipment, assisted by CDR Skvortsov.  Later, the Pilot-M & Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled & stowed away, data files were downloaded, and Misha reported to TsUP on his run.    [MBI-15 requires the Multipurpose Hardware Bench as a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO & RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) with software (v. 2.0) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.]  Afterwards, Kornienko conducted the periodic cleaning of the BMP Micropurification (Harmful Impurities Removal) Unit fan (MTs12-4) grille in the SM (Service Module, panel 419), using the vacuum cleaner (PO-70).  Skvortsov meanwhile continued the current round of monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, starting out in the MRM2 Poisk module where he changed out the PF1 & PF2 dust filter cartridges and cleaned the V1 & V2 fan screens.    Later, Alexander repeated the process in the DC1 Docking Compartment on the PF1 & PF2 dust filters and V1 & V2 fan grids.  Tracy Caldwell-Dyson’s busy work schedule included the following tasks:  Starting another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later   [This was the 2nd session with the new GC/DMS unit (#1004), after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware],Performing the periodic status check on the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge, looking for any internal condensation moisture which would require replacing desiccants  [MERLIN, the Galley fridge, is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.  Tracy’s report: “Observed no condensation”],Removing the alignment guides on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab to allow activation of the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) by the ground for FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility) operations requiring a micro-G environment,Mating the VES/VRS (Vacuum Exhaust System / Vacuum Resource System) umbilical to the VES “waste gas” QD (quick disconnect) at Lab loc. P4, with its other end plugged, for the subsequent ground-controlled leak check of the jumper  [VES is the means by which users (payloads etc.) can easily access the vacuum of space],Connecting the UOP DCP (Utility Outlet Panel/Display & Control Panel) power bypass cable at the Lab RWS (Robotic Workstation), andTaking documentary photography in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) of the MARES (Muscle Atrophy Resistive Exercise System) Rack attachments to the ISS (loc. F3) and the current MARES Rack stowage situation, then downloading it to the SSC-11 (Station Support Computer 11) laptop.   After donning their Sokol flight suits, the crew conducted the periodic 30-min. fit check of their Kazbek couches in the Soyuz TMA-18/22S spacecraft, the three contoured shock absorbing seats in the Descent Module.    [For the fit check, crewmembers remove their cabin apparel and don Sokol KV-2 suit and comm caps, get into in their seats and assess the degree of comfort and uniform body support provided by the seat liner.  Using a ruler, they then measure the gap between the top of the head and the top edge of the structure facing the head crown.  The results are reported to TsUP.  Kazbek-UM couches are designed to withstand g-loads during launch and orbital insertion as well as during reentry and brake-rocket-assisted landing.  Each seat has two positions: cocked (armed) and noncocked. In cocked position, they are raised to allow the shock absorbers to function during touchdown.  The fit check assures that the crewmembers, whose bodies gain in length during longer-term stay in zero-G, will still be adequately protected by the seat liners for their touchdown in Kazakhstan, either emergency or regular return.]  The CDR conducted another sun-glint observation session with the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) experiment from SM window #9, using the hand-held spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor), synchronized with a NIKON D2X camera for taking snapshots, and later downloading the data to laptop RSE1 for subsequent downlink via OCA.  Video footage was also taken, using the SONY HVR-Z7E camcorder in auto mode.     [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere],  FE-3 completed the periodic refresh of the IUS AntiVirus program in the Russian VKS auxiliary (non-network) laptops RSS1, RSK1, RSK2, RSE1, which are not loaded from the ground, from a special software program working with Norton AV on the FS (File Server) laptop, first scanning the latter, then transferring the database by flash-card to the other computers and scanning them one by one.     [Only the RSS2 laptop is automatically updated (once a week on Fridays from MCC-Houston).]  Afterwards, Kornienko collected the periodic air samples in the SM & FGB with the AK-1M absorber, and then also checked for CO (Carbon Monoxide) with the IPD-CO Draeger tube sampler.  Tracy conducted two EPO (Educational Payloads Operation) demos, viz. –  Discussing Earth cloud cover observations from space with camcorder running for live video downlink (plus subsequent replay/downlink of the tape), using a formalized approach   [S’COOL Report form which lists clouds by types, cover & visual opacity for 3 heights, including airplane contrails, plus observed ground/surface conditions.  S'COOL (Students’ Cloud-Observations On-Line) is a NASA-Langley project that aims to collect data on cloud type, height, cover and related conditions from all over the world.  Observations are sent to NASA for comparison to similar information obtained from satellite.  Reports from a wide range of places are helpful to assess the satellite data under different conditions], andPerforming session #7 for the moon photography required by the JAXA EPO demo “ISS Moon Score”  [which is to create a musical score using seven different moon age photo sessions taken from “Kibo” and DC-1 windows, i.e., at different times in the lunar cycle, while the crew is floating naturally under microgravity environment.  Session 7 is a repeat of a session performed by Soichi Noguchi.  The others were taken by Greg Chamitoff, Koichi Wakata and Nicole Stott.  The photos used to create the Moon music score (which was uplinked as a .wma file) will be displayed in an exhibition to draw public attention.]  In the ESA COL, with the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) camcorder pointed to cover her activities, Tracy repeated her (aborted) attempts of 5/20 at troubleshooting the VMU DLT (Video Management Unit / Digital Line Tape) of the FSL (Fluids Science Laboratory).     [New instructions were uplinked from COL-CC/Oberpfaffenhofen for pulling out the DLT which was apparently stuck in its housing.  The DLT came with the new Tape Recorder which Soichi Noguchi installed on 3/5 along with two new HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) to upgrade the VMU.  The troubleshooting consists of demating and then remating the data & power connector from/to the VMU DLT Tape Recorder in order to ensure a tight and stable connection.  Documentary photographs were also taken.]  Later, in Node-3, FE-2 had ~2.5 hrs set aside for working on the OGS (Oxygen Generator System) in the AR (Atmosphere Revitalization) rack to perform the scheduled R&R (removal & replacement) of the water pump ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit).    [The decision had been made to re-install the original (degraded) recirculation pump ORU in the OGS since the temporary replacement of the ORU with a new spare pump has not cleared up the OGS problem.]  Afterwards, Tracy conducted the periodic maintenance & visual inspection of the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), checking out the rails & rollers, greasing the Y- and Z-axis rails & rollers and evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration.  The regular weekly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization) meanwhile was performed by Mikhail, primarily inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices) in contingency configuration, SLD cables for fraying and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time & date values.  The CDR continued the extended leak integrity checking of the spare BZh Liquid Unit (#056) for the Elektron O2 generator, repressed on 5/17 with nitrogen (N2) to 1 atm (1 kg/cm2), by conducting the usual pressure check and recharging it with N2 from BPA-1M Nitrogen Purge Unit as required to verify the unit’s hermeticity.    [Objective of the monthly checkout of the spare BZh, which has been in stowage since March 2007, is to check for leakage and good water passage through the feed line inside of the BZh (from ZL1 connector to the buffer tank) and to check the response of the Electronics Unit’s micro switches (signaling “Buffer Tank is Empty” & “Buffer Tank is Full”.  During Elektron operation, the inert gas locked up in the BZh has the purpose to prevent dangerous O2/H2 mixing.  A leaking BZh cannot be used.]  Next, Alexander started charging the battery for the SONY HVR-Z1J camcorder for the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment scheduled for another run at SM window #9.    [Using the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #9, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]  Sasha also conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Kornienko performed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Misha also spent another ~30 min. shooting more newsreel footage using the SONY HVR-Z7 #2 high-definition camcorder as part of the ongoing effort to create a photo & video imagery database on the flight of ISS-23/24 (“Flight Chronicles”).      [Footage subjects are to be focused on include life on the station, personal hygiene, food intake, playing with water, enjoying weightlessness, exercise, moving about, station interior, Earth surface, space clothing, cosmonaut at work, station cleaning, etc.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]  At ~3:00pm EDT, Caldwell-Dyson is scheduled for her regular PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- & Ku-band audio/video.  Tracy, Misha & Sasha completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-2, FE-3), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).  Soyuz TMA-19/23S Launch Preparations:   Countdown at Baikonur is continuing nominally at L-2 after yesterday’s rollout and pad erection of the Soyuz-FG launcher for TMA-19, to take place tomorrow evening at  5:35pm EDT with Fyodor Yurchikhin (Russia), Doug Wheelock (USA) &  Shannon Walker (USA).  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.   