
Payloads:
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): Portable USB Hard Drives 1 and 3 were connected to PK-4. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Systems:
ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) 1B Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: In preparation for Thursday’s IROSA 1B EVA, the crew continued to perform multiple EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) hardware and EVA procedure activities. The crew inspected all Safety and Waist Tethers and D-ring Extenders for structural integrity, installed helmet lights onto the EMU, configured EVA Tools and the D5 camera, and printed the EVA Cuff Checklist. The Cuff Checklist is a small book with an elastic band to allow EV crew to wear it on their wrist. The book always contains a set of pages for EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) contingency responses and pages for task-specific information to be printed and taped. The crew also completed On-board Training (OBT) EVA Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session and reviews for Robotics EVA Procedures and the Portable Onboard Computers (POC) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software. EMUs were also reconfigured on the EMU Don/Doff Assemblies (EDDAs).
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Instrumentation Box (AIB) Reinstallation: The Exercise Instrumentation Box was replaced with the AIB, and the ARED ZBook replaced the ARED Surface Pro 5. The AIB is an instrumentation box that collects, processes, and transmits data generated by the ARED load and position sensors. The EIB upgrade had replaced the AIB on ARED, but AIB is being reinstalled to enable troubleshooting on the EIB.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Water Container (ЕДВ-CB) Remove and Replace (R&R) and Fill: Today, the crew removed and replaced the WHC ЕДВ-CB, followed by a manual fill using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief and protect the Dose Pump. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use. Following the R&R and fill, the crew filled water from the Portable Water Dispenser (PWD) and deposited it into the WHC to aid in troubleshooting the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA). 
UPA Brine Filter Remove & Replace (R&R) and Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The UPA Brine Filter was removed and replaced, and the recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Video Distribution System High Definition Video Record
Payload Operations Integration Center Weekly System Maintenance

