
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Cleanup and Reconfiguration: Kelly completed the second and final MSG cleanup session following the completion of RR2.  Following cleanup, Padalka installed the Observation Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS) experiment hardware.  The sample installation, final connections and camera checkout will be scheduled on another day.  OASIS studies the unique behavior of liquid crystals in microgravity, including their overall motion and the merging of crystal layers known as smectic islands. Liquid crystals are used for display screens in televisions and clocks and they also occur in soaps and cell membranes. The experiment allows detailed studies of the behavior of these structures, and how microgravity affects their unique ability to act like both a liquid and a solid crystal.
Ocular Health: Kelly and Kornienko executed their Flight Day 90 Ocular Health activities today including Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer and Fundoscope measurements to collect retinal images.   For these operations, Padalka assisted Kelly and Kelly was the Crew Medical Officer for Kornienko. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N):  Kelly retrieved the eight RADI-N detectors from their deployed locations and handed them over to Kornienko for downlink of the data. The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight. 
ISS Reboost: The ISS performed a reboost at 5:59 am CDT today using 58P thrusters.  This reboost was added to the timeline as the result of 43S Soyuz launch date moving from July 24 to July 22.  A second reboost is planned for July 10 to finalize setup for 43S Soyuz 4-orbit launch. Delta-V was 0.5 meters/second and burn duration was 4 minutes, 8 seconds.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Closing USOS Window Shutters
Closure of outer shutters on SM windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14 for ISS Reboost
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Setup
Rodent Research (RR) – Hardware Removal and Cleaning
Preparations for Replacement of РТ-50-1М No.4 and No.1 (А204, А211).
OCT Exam
OASIS – Hardware Gathering
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and measurements.
OASIS – Setup
RADIN – Retrieval of dosimeters from deployed locations
MATRYOSHKA-R. Receiving BUBBLE-dosimeter detectors from USOS.
RADIN – Handover of Dosimeters to the Russian Crew
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and measurements.
Manual synchronization of the time on the CEVIS Control Panel with the LS1 server
OCT Exam
OCT Equipment Stowage 
OASIS – Setup
СОЖ Maintenance
VZAIMODEISTVIYE-2. Experiment Ops
Cleaning of TVS LIV voltage converter vent grille
VZAIMODEISTVIYE-2. Experiment Ops
Fundoscope Setup and OCT Laptop Configuration
Ocular Health – Fundoscope Prep
IMS Delta File Prep
HABIT – iPad S/W Update
Fundoscope – Eye Exam
Tightening of Progress 425 SM (Aft) QD Screw Clamps
Preparing for Fundoscope Exam
Fundoscope – Eye Exam
Fundoscope Removal and Stowage 

Completed Task List Items

None 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Ocular Health ops
OASIS hardware setup

