
67 Progress Launch: 67P launched successfully from Baikonur, Kazakhstan today at 4:20am CDT followed by a nominal ascent and orbit insertion.  All systems are performing nominally.  Docking is scheduled for Friday, June 16 at 6:42am CDT. 
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis: The crew restocked two of the four Animal Habitats and will restock the other two tomorrow. The habitats are emptied, cleaned, and new food bars installed. The rodents are then transferred back to the habitats and returned to their individual stowage locations.  Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight.
Cool Flames Investigation: The crew replaced Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Igniters, Fiber Arm, and fuel reservoirs in support of continued operations for the Cool Flames investigation. Cool Flames provides new insight into the phenomenon where some types of fuels initially burn very hot, then appear to go out but they continue burning at a much lower temperature, with no visible flames (cool flames). Understanding cool flame combustion helps scientists develop new engines and fuels that are more efficient and less harmful to the environment. 
Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Max: The crew set up and performed the Sprint VO2 Max exercise protocol.  The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collection: The crew collected water samples from the PWD for in-flight and post-flight analysis. This is nominally scheduled maintenance that occurs multiple times throughout the expedition to ensure good water quality.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Fuel Dispenser Troubleshooting: The crew completed troubleshooting of the CIR Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) Fuel Dispenser 1. Prior to troubleshooting, the dispenser shaft could only rotate ½ turn each direction. Following oiling the drive shaft threads, the shaft could easily turn in the dispensing direction, however, it had difficulty turning in the retraction direction. Crew observed the difficulty may be due to a misalignment in the shaft and was able to alleviate some of the binding by depressing the dispenser actuator finger. Two fuel reservoirs were installed and nominal maintenance completed following troubleshooting. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations in Support of NICER:  Overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to unstow the Neutron Star Interior Composition ExploreR (NICER) from side 1 of the SPDM Enhanced Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Temporary Platform (EOTP) and install it on EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Logistic Carrier 2 (ELC2) Site 7. SSRMS and SPDM were then positioned for NICER deployment viewing. Deployment was attempted this afternoon but was unsuccessful. Latches were locked while teams discuss the next steps with NICER engineers.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Test video recording for RT TV channel
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
URAGAN. Observation and photography
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Sprint Portable Pulmonary Function System Power Up
JEM Camera Robot Cable Swap
Sprint VO2 Operations – Subject
SPHERES Battery Setup
On MCC Go Purging Elektron-VM Liquid Unit (БЖ) after Shutdown
PK-4 Hard Drives Locate
Diagnostics of FGB СУБК instruments 11М156М
Polar Desiccant Pack Swap
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Setup
Environmental Health System (EHS) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collect
Diagnostics of FGB Power Supply System Filter Units (БФ-2) and Main Bus Assembly (БСШ-2). Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
Sprint Portable Pulmonary Function System Stow Partial
SPHERES Battery Swap
Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus MWA Prep
Fault isolation in FGB Onboard Computer Nitrogen Pumping System Avionics Unit (БА СПА-СИС-УС31-МДМ)
Rodent Research Habitat 1 & 2 Restock
Physical Fitness Evaluation (on the treadmill)
SPHERES Battery Swap
Combustion Integrated Rack Doors Open
Combustion Integrated Rack Front End Cap Open
Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus Hardware Replacement
Microbial Capture Devices (MCD) and Coliform Water Processing
Download Pille Dosimeter Readings
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
SPHERES Battery Swap
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Initiation
MRM1 Fan Grille Cleaning (Group B), Cleaning behind panels 405, 406
Combustion Integrated Rack Front End Cap Close
Combustion Integrated Rack Doors Close
Sprint Portable Pulmonary Function System Conclude

Completed Task List Items

None 

Ground Activities

NICER Deploy and Survey [Not completed] 

