06-18-2010June 18, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/18/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Crew rest day.  Sleep cycle normalization:  The crew’s day/night cycle today features an extended sleep/rest period of 22h 30m which began this morning at 3:30am and ends tomorrow morning at the regular 2:00am EDT.  Yest kasaniya! Soyuz TMA-19/23S docked successfully last evening at 6:21pm EDT at the SM (Service Module) aft port at local sunset, 4 minutes ahead of schedule, on Soyuz orbit #33 (DO1).  This doubles the station crew size to 6 persons and brings the total number of docked Russian VVs (visiting vehicles) to 3: Soyuz TMA-18/22S is docked to MRM2 “Poisk”, Progress 37P to DC-1 Nadir.  TMA-19 (#229) delivered Exp-24/25 crewmembers FE-4 Douglas “Wheels” Wheelock, FE-5 Fyodor Yurchikhin & FE-6 Shannon Walker.   After about 2h 30m spent in Soyuz on pre-transfer activities, hatches were opened at 8:52pm and the crew transferred to the ISS.  This was followed by the traditional welcome event and the installation of the BZV QD (quick disconnect) clamps of the docking & internal transfer mechanism (SSVP) by Skvortsov, to rigidize the joint.     [The Soyuz TV system was activated at ~5:45pm EDT; final approach on automatic KURS pilot began at ~6:12pm.  Shortly after "kasaniya" (contact), automatic "sborka" (closing of Soyuz & SM port hooks & latches) took place at 6:31pm with ISS in free drift.  Attitude control authority had been handed over to the Russian MCS (Motion Control System) thrusters at ~2:50pm and returned to US CMG (Control Moment Gyroscope) control at ~7:20pm.  For the docking, Russian thrusters were disabled (7:20pm-8:20pm) during Soyuz volume pressurization & clamp installation and afterwards returned to active attitude control.  Before hatch opening, the crew performed leak checks of the Soyuz modules and the Soyuz/SM interface vestibule.  They then doffed their Sokol suits, and Yurchikhin set suits and gloves up for drying.  Fyodor also deactivated the BOA/Atmosphere Purification Unit in the SA/Descent Module, replaced the Soyuz ECLSS LiOH cartridges, equalized Soyuz/ISS pressures, and put the spacecraft into conservation mode on ISS integrated power.  Note: Prior to the rendezvous the Soyuz crew reported several discrepancies that occurred with the Neptun display panel, including erroneously illuminated command selection frames on KSP formats, slight differences in times between MCS (Motion Control System) display and InPU (Integrated Control Panel) displays, display characters being partially cut off at the top of the display, and erratic display performance plus subsequent automatic reset following sensor calibration.  Specialists will be reviewing these discrepancies.]  After the successful docking at SM aft port, Alexander Skvortsov –  Switched hatch KVDs (Pressure Equalization Valves/PEVs) between SM & Soyuz back to electric control mode,Reconfigured station comm (STTS) for the nominal post-docking hardline mode (MBS), and later, and laterSupported Elektron O2 generator reactivation by TsUP-Moscow by throwing a switch and monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating  [measurements were taken twice, 3-4 minutes apart, with the temperature probe of the Elektronika MultiMeter.  If BD temperature exceeded 50 degC, Elektron had to be turned off.  The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup].  Mikhail Kornienko downlinked the TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) structural dynamics measurements and closed out the data take,  After the traditional welcome ceremony, the new arrivals received the mandatory 30-min Safety briefing by CDR Skvortsov, to familiarize them with procedures and escape routes in case of an emergency (ammonia leak, fire, rapid depress).  Aboard ISS, crew safety is the foremost concern.     [The briefing includes pointing out the location of the “Emergency Response/Visiting Crew” books, shows how to move about the station without getting hurt or accidentally disturbing air flow meters/sensors (PP IP-1) and features a refresher discussion of the well-rehearsed individual crewmember’s roles during an ammonia leak, fire, or rapid depress event.  As an example: the CDR will be responsible for crew headcount; for a fire in the RS (Russian Segment), the three cosmonauts will be prime, i.e. responsible for generally working the response, while Caldwell-Dyson, Wheelock & Walker would stay in their respective Soyuz vehicles or other safe areas; for rapid depress, in general Tracy would calculate the all-important T.res (remaining time), Mikhail would manipulate valves & hatches, Alexander would run procedures & coordinate communications; for a toxic leak, each crewmember is assigned specific tasks in retrieving respirators, detection kits, Sokol suits, go-to locations, etc.  Soyuz vehicle preparations for descent could be required very quickly.]  Following the safety briefing, FE-4 Wheelock & FE-6 Walker prepared their CQs (Crew Quarters),  Doug in Node-2/Starboard, Shannon in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module, loc. D3), e.g., inspection, cleaning as required, retrieving clothing & sleeping bag CTBs, installing sleeping bag on wall, setting up personal effect, etc.      [CQ locations for the other four crewmembers: Alexander – SM/Port, Fyodor – SM/Stbd, Tracy – Node-2/Port, Mikhail – Node-2/Overhead.  Since Wheelock’s & Walker’s CQ have no ATU (Audio Terminal Unit), Doug & Shannon need to be alerted by a crewmate in case of a CW (Caution/Warning) event when asleep.]  Before “calling it a day”, Wheelock & Walker put on their Actiwatches to join Caldwell-Dyson in the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), their first.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Conjunction Update:   For the remaining three different objects, conjunction data were updated this morning taking into account the small ISS orbit perturbations resulting from last night’s 23S docking activities:  Object 14277 (SL-12 R/B Aux Motor), TCA: Sunday, 6/20, 4:11am;Object 33141 (Cosmos 2421 Debris), TCA: Sunday, 6/20, 7:05am;Object 31004 (Fengyun 1C Debris), TCA: Sunday, 6/20, 8:52a. If a DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) is required for any of these objects, it would be performed using Progress 37P mid-ring thrusters (docked at DC-1 nadir).  The effects of such a maneuver on the other conjunctions are being analyzed as necessary, with appropriate action taken.  Based on the first TCA (Object 14277), three preliminary maneuver options (TIGs/Times of Ignition) are under evaluation for early Sunday, 6/20, morning:  Option 1:  TIG 1:55am EDTOption 2:  TIG 1:36amOption 3:  TIG 2:06am.   Decision timeline for 14277:  PC (Probability of Collision) becoming valid – tonight, 6/18, 10:12pm EDTGo/No-Go for command sequence development by TsUP-Moscow (cyclogram) – Saturday, 6/19, 4:42amDAM – Sunday, 6/20, 1:55am (est.)TCA – Sunday, 6/20, 4:11am.   Maneuver data:  Burn duration: 369 sec; delta-V: 0.5 m/s.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Merapi Volcano, Indonesia (Merapi lies in one of the world's most densely populated areas and dominates the landscape immediately north of the major city of Yogyakarta.  This volcano is the youngest and southernmost of a volcanic chain extending NNW to Ungaran Volcano.  It is the most active volcano in Indonesia and has erupted regularly since 1548.  Smoke can be seen emerging from the volcano at least 300 days a year.  Looking left of track), Mt. Kilimanjaro, Tanzania (looking to the left of track for this famous volcano - clouds may be present along the lower flanks but the summit is typically clear.  Of particular interest are the small glaciers located at the summit.  These glaciers have been receding dramatically over the past century, and have been predicted to disappear completely by 2020.  Detailed imagery of the summit will help document changes in the extent of the glaciers and snow cover), and Antananarivo, Madagascar (Antananarivo is situated in the center of the island length-wise, and 145 km [90 miles] away from the eastern coast.  The city occupies a commanding position, being built on the summit and slope of a long and narrow rocky ridge, which extends north and south for about 4 km [2 mi] and rising at its highest point to about 200 m [660 ft] above the extensive rice plain to the west. It is Madagascar's largest city.  There are very few images of this capital city in the CEO database).  