
ISS HAM pass: The crew completed a HAM pass with Peninsula Grammar, Melbourne, Australia, which is a boarding school for approximately 1400 students from three-year old kindergarten to Year 12.  The participants had questions for the crew about first aid in space, how the crew’s understanding of the universe has been changed by their time in space, the use of the internet on the ISS.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (JSSOD)11 install:  The crew installed the JSSOD and supporting hardware onto the JEMAL slide table.  Satellite deployments are currently planned for next Monday.  Launcher 1 will deploy the Uguisu, Raavana-1, and Nepali sat-1 satellites and Launcher 2 will deploy the SpooQy-1 satellite.  The JSSOD is a unique satellite launcher which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once the JSSOD is installed on the Multi Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) by crewmembers, it is passed through the JEM airlock for retrieval, positioning and deployment by the JEMRMS.
Standard Measures: The crew set up the hardware and performed Standard Measures sample collections, then stowed the samples in MELFI.  Following the sampling, they also answered a body sampling survey.  The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, and microbiome.  These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Vascular Echo: The crew set up electrodes, leg cuffs and supporting hardware, and performed 2 sets of Vascular Echo ultrasound scans with remote guidance from the ground team.  Areas scanned via ultrasound included the neck, gut, heart, and back of the knee. The first set of scans occurred in the crew’s morning, and the second set occurred in their afternoon, after the leg cuffs have been worn for several hours.  Vessel Structure and Function with Long-Duration Space Flight and Recovery (Vascular Echo) examines changes in blood vessels (including stiffening of the arteries), and the heart, while crew members are in space, and then follows their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone.
58 Soyuz Emergency Descent On-Board Training (OBT): The 58S crew performed this OBT which is scheduled once every 2.5 months. Topics covered include emergency egress wearing gas masks, emergency undocking and preparations for an emergency descent.
Mobile Servicing System Operations: Yesterday Robotics Ground Controllers powered MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) MBS PDGF 4. Next, they maneuvered SSRMS and SPDM and position the SPDM Latching End Effector (LEE) to performed snare cable survey. Once the survey was completed, SSRMS and SPDM were maneuvered for translate and finally the Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated to Worksite (WS) #2.
MSS is now configured to start several Flight Releasable Active Mechanism (FRAM) relocations later today.
Completed Task List Activities:

Wednesday

Airway monitoring low NO measurement
P/TV consumables audit
SSC25 troubleshooting
Locate spare medium HUT



Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


MSS FRAM swap
JSSOD 11 install

Look Ahead:
Friday, 6/14 (GMT 165)
Payloads:


Astrobee
Actiwatch spectrum
CIR/ACME hardware replacement
FOP camera setup
JEMAL depress
JAXA Mouse Mission cleanup
Neuromapping
RR audit
Standard Measures
STFS
Vascular Echo
Veg-04A

Systems:

EMU Loop Scrub and UIA O2 Hose Inspection
Flight Director Conference

Saturday, 6/15 (GMT 166)
Payloads:


ISS HAM pass
Standard Measures

Systems:

Crew off duty, housekeeping

Sunday, 6/16 (GMT 167)
Payloads:


Lighting Effects
Standard Measures
Veg-04A

Systems:

Crew off duty

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Standard Measures Body Sampling Survey
Standard Measures Body Sampling Collection
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
Standard Measures Body Sampling Stow
AIRMON Low NO measurement
Conference between Search and Rescue (ГПСК) specialists and the returning crew
Adlink Mini PC Swap
Standard Measures Fecal Collection
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
Standard Measures Fecal Collection Stow
DAN. Experiment Session
DAN. Experiment Operator Assistance
Photo TV Node 1 High Definition (HD) Video Setup
Galley Rack Equipment Powerdown
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Deck SSRMS Jumper
ISS EXP ZCAM Setup
AIRMON Power off and Stow
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Vascular Echo Echo Ultrasound Setup
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
XF305 Camcorder Setup
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
Airway Monitoring Video Stow
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Vascular Echo Leg Cuffs Ultrasound Using Echo Scan 1
JEM SSOD onto Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Installation Part 1
Preventive Maintenance of FS1 Laptop
Cargo items prepack for return and disposal on Soyuz 741
Galley Equipment Power Up
Routine Monthly Maintenance of BRI
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer Checkout Prep
Update BRI Configuration File to Version 8.1
Atmosphere Revitalization System Thermal Amine Scrubber Heater Unpower
Airlock Utility Outlet Panel Power Up
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Personal Medication Stow
Private Psychological Conference (PPC)
ISS emergency descent drill (Soyuz 742 crew)
Hardware prepack for return and disposal via Soyuz 741
Small Satellite Orbital Deployer Checkout Cleanup
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Personal Medication Stow
JEM SSOD onto Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Installation Part 2
Vascular Echo Leg Cuffs Ultrasound Using Echo Scan 2
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Retraction from JPM Side
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Gas Bottle Unit (GBU) valve opening
ISS Crew departure preparation
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold #2 Bottle Replacement
Combustion Integrated Rack GC Check Gas Bottle Replacement
Vascular Echo Ultrasound Stow Partial
Combustion Integrated Rack Doors Close
ISS Experience Hardware Stow

 