
Payloads:
Actiwatch: Eight Actiwatches were setup on Human Resource Facility 2 (HRF2) rack for battery charge and data downlinks. The Actiwatch is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF-L): Video cables were connected between CBEF and Image Processing Unit 2 (IPU2). CBEF-L is a new JAXA subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original CBEF currently aboard the ISS. CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Crew Earth Observations (CEO): The crew utilized the Window Observation Research Facility (WORF) window to perform CEO Operations. CEO utilizes crewmembers on the ISS to photograph the Earth using digital handheld cameras from their unique point of view located over 200 miles above the surface. Photographs record how the planet is changing over time, from human-caused changes like urban growth and reservoir construction, to natural dynamic events such as hurricanes, floods and volcanic eruptions. A major emphasis of CEO is to monitor events needing immediate (disaster-level) response in support of the International Disaster Charter (IDC) (coordinated through the US Geological Survey). CEO imagery provides researchers on Earth with key data to understand the planet from the perspective of the ISS. Crew members have been photographing Earth from space since the early Mercury missions beginning in 1961. The images taken from the ISS ensure this record remains unbroken.
FLUIDICS: The FLUIDICS hardware was installed and partially setup.  The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank. The Fluid Dynamics in Space (FLUIDICS) investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
SoundSee Mission: A crewmember installed the SoundSee hardware onto an Astrobee unit and took sound level measurements of the acoustic environment in the JEM. The Investigation of Deep Audio Analytics on the ISS (SoundSee Mission) tests monitoring of the acoustic environment using an audio sensor on Astrobee, a mobile robotic platform aboard the space station. Microphones collect acoustic information, and the Astrobee determines the sensor’s position. The system can detect anomalies in the sound of components inside a machine, providing autonomous monitoring of the health of infrastructure such as life support and exercise equipment.
Systems:
InterModule Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning: Today, the crew cleaned the Node 3 Aft-Port IMV Fan, IMV Silencer inlets, and IMV Grille in order to improve airflow into BEAM. The IMV flow rates must be great enough to ensure that the IMV fan is operating outside of the stall region which reduces airflow and increases fan acoustic noise. Excessive dust buildup can cause this phenomenon. Following the cleaning, the crew used the Velocicalc tool to verify there is now adequate air flow through the Node 3 Aft Port IMV.
Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and Cygnus cargo vehicle, NG-17, loading items like common trash for disposal. NG-17 is planned for unberth later this month where it will depart the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.
Station Support Computer (SSC) Audit and Ethernet Cable Fix: The crew audited the SSC System laptops by snapping photos of the deployed configuration to assist ground teams with SSC tracking and support of any hardware-related anomalies. The crew fixed or replaced any broken Ethernet cables in use for SSC Clients.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

HRF Rack 2 PC Remote Desktop Protocol Commanding
Life Support Rack Valve Check
Cold Atom Lab Ops Commanding and Downlink
Crew Dragon Freedom Weekly Quiescent Checkout

