
Payloads
REDEYE:  The crew installed the RED-EYE 2 satellite onto the Japanese Module (JEM) KABOR deployer system on the JEM Airlock slide table. The crew also replaced the old capture mechanism with a new unit and took the multilayer insulation (MLI) from the old unit and installed it onto the new capture mechanism unit. The RED-EYE program develops and demonstrates technologies which increase the utility of low-cost microsatellites using the Kaber Micro Satellite Deployer attached to the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM).
Mochii: The crew attempted to install the Mochii Microscope. The crew was not able to successfully power on the unit and the installation was aborted. The ground teams will assess configuration photos and will provide future trouble shooting steps. Mochii is a miniature scanning electron microscope (SEM) with spectroscopy to conduct real-time, on-site imaging and compositional measurements of particles on the International Space Station (ISS). Such particles can cause vehicle and equipment malfunctions and threaten crew health, but currently, samples must be returned to Earth for analysis, leaving crew and vehicle at risk. Mochii also provides a powerful new analysis platform to support novel microgravity science and engineering.
Repository: The crew performed the Urine Collection setup in support of the Repository study. Repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Systems
Rack Transfer Preparations: Two new payload racks, Express Rack-11B (ER11B) and the European Drawer Rack 2 (EDR2), were delivered on H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)9. Today, the crew staged the Columbus module in preparation for the transfer of the new racks from HTV9. Preparations included relocating cargo from the Columbus module, emptying out and deinstalling the European Transport Carrier (ETC) locker, and clearing out payload cargo from the Columbus Overhead 2 (COL1O2) rack. The two racks will be transferred from HTV9 tomorrow and the ETC will be transferred to HTV9 for disposal.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collection: Crew collected water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water.  The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. The ground team encountered issues today with the Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) tanks which resulted in a delay in the TOCA analysis. The crew will reconvene in the morning with steps to complete the TOCA sample analysis and also perform a waste water bag (WWB) changeout.
S6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for the S6 Battery EVA currently planned for Friday, June 26th, the crew completed the following:

EMU Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) install and checkout on both suits (3004/3006).
EVA suit intravehicular (IV) Review: The IV crew reviewed reminders, emergency briefing, helpful tips and procedures used during EVA prep.
Termination of the second set of Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) battery maintenance.

On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA): Today the crew performed an auditory test as a baseline for future exams conducted periodically during their stay on the ISS. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.  The exam is performed in conjunction with the crew-worn acoustic monitor surveys.
Periodic Health Exam (PHS): Today the crew completed a periodic health evaluation. During the evaluation, vital signs are obtained and an ear examination is conducted by taking images of the tympanic membranes and the external ear. The data and imagery is then downlinked for review by a medical specialist.
Completed Task List Activities:

iPad To CrewNet – 1006
Atmospheric Control System (ACS) Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System(NORS) Nitrogen Transfer Termination
Uninstalling and stowing the NORS N2 Tank from the AIK
ACS NORS Nitrogen Transfer Initiation

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


X2R18B Software Transition


Airlock LTL Flow support

