
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (BCAT-KP):  Kelly reviewed the experiment prior to charging the D2Xs camera batteries, changing out batteries and setting the intervelometer settings. The BCAT-KP experiment aims to help materials scientists develop new consumer products with unique properties and longer shelf lives. Colloids are mixtures of small particles distributed throughout a liquid, which include milk, detergents and liquid crystals. Gravity affects how the particles clump together and sink, making the International Space Station an ideal platform to study their fundamental behaviors.
Advanced Colloids Experiment Heating-1 (ACE-H1) Sample Changeout: Kelly cleaned up oil on the first ACE Heated Sample inside the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC) followed by removal and inspection of the sample. He then installed the second sample and dispensed oil. This is the second of two planned ACE-H1 samples, although a third contingency sample is available. The ACE-H1 experiment examines densely packed microscopic spheres, or colloidal mixtures, to study their transition from ordered crystals into disordered glass. The particles are fluorescent and change size in different temperatures so scientists are able to see how they move and change forms as they are heated and cooled. Studying particle interactions without the influence of gravity improves the ability of scientists to understand how increasing disorder in a crystal material affects its freezing, melting, aging and structural integrity.
On Board Training (OBT) Robotics On-Board Trainer (RoBOT): Kelly and Padalka continued preparing for SpX-7 arrival, completing another OBT session. Today’s session focused on assessing vehicle motion prior to and after free drift, assessing Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) closing rate and monitoring Latching End Effector (LEE) telemetry.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


PAO hardware setup
Crew preparation for PAO in JPM
TV conference with Trud newspaper reporter in JPM
PROBOY. Activity with RSЕ1 Station laptop.
PROBOY. Activity with Penetration Simulator
WRS Water Sample Analysis
BCAT – Experiment Procedure Review
ARED Flywheel Cylinder Evacuation
PROBOY. Copy and Downlink Data
Replacement of urine receptacle (МП) and filter-insert (Ф-В) in АСУ
АСУ Activation after Replacement
DAN. Experiment Execution Support
DAN. Experiment Ops.
TOCA Data Recording
MPEV – Providing Access
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
BCAT – Start Battery Charge
OBT – Dragon Rendezvous and Berthing Procedures Review
Urine Transfer from EDV-U to ТКГ 425 Rodnik Water Tank1 and Flushing cnctr KV1 Connector
OBT – Dragon Rendezvous and Berthing Procedures Review
FIR Rack Doors Open
IMS Delta File Prep
ACE-H1. Sample Changeout
Video Footage of Greetings
FIR. Rack Doors Closure
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
СОЖ Maintenance
BCAT – Battery Replacement and Photo Downlink
PCS Battery Swap [Deferred]

Completed Task List Items

None 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


RoBOT training support
ACE-H1 sample changeout 

