
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  On Saturday two crewmembers performed the second injection of the RR-5 mice in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  Spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system; therefore, it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight.
Cardiac Stem Cells:  In support of the ongoing Cardiac Stem Cell investigation, on Sunday the crew performed the second changeout of media for three BioCell Habitats in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  Cardiac Stem Cells investigates how microgravity affects stem cells and the factors that govern stem cell activity, in order to clarify the role of stem cells in cardiac biology and tissue regeneration.  This investigation also supports research into the possible acceleration of the aging process in microgravity.
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (SPRINT) Configuration: The crew configured the Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) in advance of their Flight Day 45 Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Max session this Wednesday. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Seedling Growth 3:  The crew replaced the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Experiment Containers (ECs) with new ECs prepared for the Seedling Growth 3 experiment. Seedling Growth-3 is the third part of the Seedling Growth Experiment series using the plant Arabidopsis thaliana to investigate the effects of gravity on the cellular signaling mechanisms of light sensing in plants (phototropism) and to investigate cell growth and proliferation responses to light stimulation under microgravity conditions. There will be two runs for this investigation, each 6 days long. 
Body Measures: This morning, a 49S subject performed the Body Measures Flight Day 214 session. The crewmember, with assistance from a trained operator, collected Body Measures data after configuring still and video cameras. NASA is collecting in-flight anthropometric data to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing.  Still and video imagery is captured and a tape measure is used to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments (chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) from astronauts before, during and after their flight missions.
Node 2 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism Bolt Assembly Remove & Replace (R&R): During SpaceX (SpX)-10 demate from Node 2 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM), Bolt 1-3 jammed. The Ground was subsequently able to demate the bolt within nominal torque limits. Today the crew R&Rd the bolt in preparation for SpX-11 unberth.  Required bolt checkout will be planned during nominal CBM operations when Dragon unberths on July 2. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations in support of NICER:  Yesterday and overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers operated the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to grasp the Neutron Star Interior Composition ExploreR (NICER) Flight Releasable Attach Mechanism (FRAM) and unberth it from the Dragon Trunk. The NICER FRAM was then temp-stowed on side 1 of the Enhanced Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Temporary Platform (EOTP). SPDM was then stowed on the Mobile Base System’s (MBS) Power & Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) #2.  NICER will remain stowed on the EOTP until installation onto Express Logistics Carrier (ELC)-2 on Wednesday June 14th. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Body Measures Equipment Gather
On MCC Go Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф1 Cartridge (start)
Body Measures Experiment Operations
European Modular Cultivation System Gas Valve Open
On MCC Go Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф1 Cartridge (start)
Preventive Maintenance of SM Ventilation Subsystem. Group А
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
JEM Mesh Cover-Return Grille Cleaning
Portable PFS Calibration US Lab Video Setup
Portable PFS Hardware Setup And Power Up
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Nitrogen Manual Valve Open
UPA Brine Filter Gather
Regenerative ECLSS UPA Brine Filter Changeout
PВ3 Fan Screen Cleaning in MRM2
Portable PFS Volume Calibration
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Nitrogen Manual Valve Close
EMCS Experiment Container Replace
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ (КОВ) for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ.
Photo TV High Definition (HD) Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Node 2 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Powered Bolt Assembly 1-3 R&R
Portable PFS Hardware Power Down And Stow
Multiple User System for Earth Sensing Server Installation Part 1
Audit of bag with expanders and [ТНК-У]
MELFI 2 Nitrogen Pressure Check
MELFI 1 Nitrogen Pressure Check
MELFI 3 Nitrogen Pressure Check
Multiple User System for Earth Sensing Server Cable Swap
Rodent Research Habitat 2 Water Check
Crew Earth Observation Lightning Study at Night Setup
Preparing for Antivirus scan on Auxiliary Computer Laptops
On MCC Go Regeneration Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф1 Absorption Cartridge (end)
Reminder Rodent Research Thermal Consideration
Reminder Habitability Walk-through Video

Completed Task List Items

Rodent Research Access Unit Clean [Completed GMT 161]
Gather and charge an iPad for use with Bluetooth HRM [Completed GMT 161]
ESA Active Dosimeter Area Monitoring Mobile Unit Stow [Completed GMT 162]
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Initiation [Completed GMT 162]
ISS Food Intake Tracker – Screenshot Captures [Completed GMT 162]
HMS ISS Medical Accessories Kit (IMAK) Unpack from SPX-11 (Completed GMT 162]
HMS Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test (Completed GMT 162]
Heart Rate Monitor Hardware Gather and Battery Changeout [Completed GMT 162]
Node 3 Forward Hatch Handle Guide Ring Decal Installation [Completed GMT 162]
JEM Flag Prep [Completed GMT 162]
On-Board Training Dragon post capture Questionnaire [Completed GMT 162]
Gather and charge an iPad for use with Bluetooth HRM  [Completed GMT 163] 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

SSRMS walkoff to MBS

