
Astrobee: The crew performed a series of Astrobee movements to collect data inside the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) for localization and mobility testing.  The Astrobee robot also performed its first free-flight exercises today.  The robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the ISS. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
CIR (Combustion Integration Rack)/ACME (Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments)/Flame Design hardware replacement:  The crew opened the CIR rack doors, opened the CIR combustion chamber front end cap, and removed the ACME chamber insert to replace the burned out igniter tip. The CIR team also took this opportunity to replace the burner head, since the current burner head seems to be having difficulty producing gas flows which encourage a spherical flame.  The on-going Flame Design investigation studies the production and control of soot in to optimize oxygen-enriched combustion and the design of robust, soot-free flames. Soot can adversely affect efficiency, emissions, and equipment lifetime, so this may lead to more efficient and cleaner burner designs. The experiment is conducted with spherical flames of gaseous fuels in the CIR as part of the ACME project.  Flame Design is one of five experiments hosted by CIR/ACME.
Fiber Optic Production (FOP):  The crew set up a US Lab camera to observe the fiber drawing activity. The attempt to draw the ZBLAN optical fiber from the heated ZBLAN preform today was unsuccessful overall.  However, the team was able to have more success than any of the previous attempts and was able to obtain several rotations on the fiber spool before the fiber broke.  FOP is designed to create optical fibers with high commercial value aboard the ISS using a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium, and aluminum called ZBLAN (ZrF4-BaF2-LaF3-AlF3-NaF). It operates within the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). Extensive theoretical studies along with a limited number of experimental studies suggest that ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity should exhibit far superior qualities to those produced on Earth. The resulting optical fiber from Fiber Optic Production is expected to help verify these studies and guide further engineering efforts to manufacture high value optical fiber in large volume aboard the ISS.
Neuromapping: The crew set up the hardware and performed the Neurocognitive Test session.  The investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The investigation includes use of structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
Vascular Echo: The crew set up the electrodes, leg cuffs and supporting hardware, and performed 2 sets of Vascular Echo ultrasound scans with remote guidance from the ground team.  Areas scanned via ultrasound included the neck, gut, heart, and back of the knee. The first set of scans occurred in the crew’s morning, and the second set occurred in their afternoon, after the leg cuffs have been worn for several hours.  Although some issues were encountered with a corrupted hard drive in the morning session, the team was able to repeat the affected portion of the testing in the afternoon session and recover.  Vascular Echo examines changes in blood vessels (including stiffening of the arteries), and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follows their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone.
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Fault: Late yesterday, the WPA experienced a high temperature fault from the controlling temperature sensor on the Catalytic Reactor. After reviewing the telemetry surrounding the event, the temperature swing experienced around this fault is likely a consequence of the known internal water leak of the catalytic reactor. Ground teams are working towards reactivating WPA and are discussing the possibility of accelerating the Remove and Replace (R&R) of the leaking reactor. 
ZBook Complementary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (CMOS) Battery Swap: This morning the crew replaced CMOS batteries on the ten ZBook laptops that flew on HTV-7. These batteries, which have a two-year shelf life when the main laptop battery is not installed, are approaching the end of their useful life based on the shipping requirements needed to support HTV launches. CMOS is an on-board, battery powered semiconductor chip inside computers that stores information. This information ranges from the system time and date to system hardware settings for your computer.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub and Conductivity test:  As part of normally scheduled 90-day maintenance, the crew performed water loop scrubs, and acquired and tested water samples for conductivity, on EMUs 3004 and 3003. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Umbilical Interface Assembly (UIA) O2 Supply Hose Inspection: While the crew had access to the UIA during today’s scheduled EMU Loop Scrubs, they also inspected the UIA O2 Supply Hose that was installed during last year’s UIA Remove and Replace (R&R). During the R&R, a longer supply hose was used to solve a dimensional tolerance issue and ground specialists were worried this could lead to possible chafing during nominal movement of the hose. Today’s inspection will ensured that the existing EVA Tape and Teflon square, placed to mitigate chafing, has not degraded or been damaged over multiple pressure cycles.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Live Event: Canadian Space Agency (CSA) astronaut David Saint-Jacques read two of the winning stories from the CSA’s Wanted: Creative Writers contest. During the event, David answered questions submitted by the winning authors and helped connect these stories to his experiences on ISS and as an astronaut. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last night Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and with SPDM Arm 2, they extracted the Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) based Linear Drive Unit (LDU) from External Stowage Platform (ESP) 3 Site 4 and installed it on ESP-3 Site 3. The Control Moment Gyro (CMG) FRAM was then installed on ESP-3 Site 4. Because of the failure of the 4A-3 Battery Charge Discharge Unit (BCDU) and 4A-5 Li-Ion battery earlier this year, these operations are required to prepare for the arrival of a replacement battery on SpaceX-19.
SSRMS Node 1 Deck Power Cable Routing: Yesterday the crew routed and partially installed the Node 1 Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Contingency Deck Power Cable. This cable can be used to provide a redundant power source to SSRMS and other exterior Truss loads in the event of a Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) failure.
 Completed Task List Activities:

Thursday

CTB relocate
Discard outdated food
FNS Lab reposition
JLP1P1 hardware consolidate
JPM light install
Micro 14 hardware consolidate
Payload NAS Ethernet cable check
Story Time
Story Time photos
WHC KTO replace


Friday

ER9 CTB move
ER9 locker removal



Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


EVU loop scrub support
JEMAL depress monitoring
Payloads ops support
MSS FRAM swaps

Look Ahead:
Saturday, 6/15 (GMT 166)
Payloads:


ISS HAM pass
Standard Measures

Systems:

Crew off duty, housekeeping

Sunday, 6/16 (GMT 167)
Payloads:


Lighting Effects
Standard Measures
Veg-04A

Systems:

Crew off duty

Monday, 6/17 (GMT 168)
Payloads:


Food Acceptability
FOP
HRF blood/urine
JSSOD deploy
Standard Measures
Vection

Systems:

CQ cleaning 

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval And Insertion Operations
XF305 Camcorder Setup
ZBook Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor Battery Swap
Two-Phase Flow Experiment Equipment Valves Setting
ZBook Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor Battery Swap
Astrobee Stowage Relocate
Fiber Optic Production Sample Exchange
Camcorder Setup for UIA O2 Hose Inspection
Umbilical Interface Assembly (UIA) Oxygen Supply Hose Inspection
LBNP Training (PRELIMINARY)
LBNP Exercise (PRELIMINARY) Operator
JEM Airlock Depressurization
Vascular Echo Echo Ultrasound Setup Partial
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub Initiation
SEPARATION. Water distillation from urine using [СРВ-У-РС] Monitoring system activation, startup. Monitoring initiation of evacuation
IMS Delta File Prep
Vascular Echo Leg Cuffs Ultrasound Using Echo Scan 1 Alternate
Changeout of СРВ-К2М purification column assembly and flushing СРВ-К2М БКВ water conditioning unit
Collecting surface samples from FGB equipment and structures
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Positive Pressure Relief Valve Cycling
Combustion Integrated Rack Hardware Gather
Astrobee Procedure Review
ACME MWA Prep
Astrobee Crew Conference
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Iodination
Vascular Echo CDL Holter Arterial BP Measurement
Astrobee Free Flyer Localization and Mobility Ops Part 1
SEPARATION. Monitoring urine evacuation cycle two using [СРВ-У-РС]
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
Combustion Integrated Rack Front End Cap Open
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
ACME Hardware Repace
JEM Airlock Vent
Express Rack-9 Auxilary Power Umbilical Demate
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Setup
NeuroMapping Experiment Neurocognitive Test
Collecting surface samples from SM equipment and structures
Recharging Soyuz 742 Samsung PC after OBT, start recharge
JEM Airlock Vent Confirmation
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Vacuum Cleaning of Dust collectors ПC1, ПС2 filter cartridges in FGB (panels 203, 403)
XF305 Camcorder Setup
JAXA Mouse Mission Vacuum Cleaner Setup
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) 2nd Wipe Post JAXA Mouse Mission
SEPARATION. Deactivation of [СРВ-У-РС] system
SEPARATION. Downlink of log-file
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Stow
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfiguration
JAXA Mouse Mission Vacuum Item Closeout
SEPARATION. Collecting condensate (water) sample from ЕДВ-Д
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config JEM Setup
Vascular Echo Leg Cuffs Ultrasound Using Echo Scan 2
Vacuum cleaning ventilation grille on FGB interior panels (201, 301, 401)
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
VEG-04 Plant Check/Watering for each Plant Pillow with 20 CM between Plant Pillow and Lightcap
Combustion Integrated Rack Front End Cap Close
ISS Crew departure preparation
Flight Director Conference
Astrobee Free Flyer Localization and Mobility Ops Part 2
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
Cleaning ventilation screens on FGB interior panels 116, 316, 231, 431
Combustion Integrated Rack Hardware Return
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Vascular Echo Echo Ultrasound Stow
Recharging Soyuz 742 Samsung PC after OBT, remove from recharge
Astrobee Stowage Replace

 