
Grip:  Today a crewmember deployed Grip hardware in the Columbus module central aisle and performed dynamic seated operations.  ESA’s Grip investigation tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects. Results from this investigation may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments as well as support design and control of haptic interfaces to be used in challenging environments such as space. Additionally, this investigation hopes to provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.  
Multi-Omics: A 54S crewmember collected fecal samples for JAXA’s Multi-Omics experiment and place them in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Multi-omics analysis of human microbial-metabolic cross-talk in the space ecosystem (Multi-Omics) investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function, by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the gut microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system. 
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS 3D): Passive radiation detectors were installed in the Columbus module today in support of ESA’s DOSIS 3D investigation. This experiment uses active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS and provides documentation of the actual nature and distribution of the radiation fields. A concise three dimensional dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS will be developed based on this data and data from JAXA and NASA monitoring devices. 
Human Research Program (Marrow, Cell-Free Epigenome (CFE) and Medical Proteomics):  A 55S crewmember collected blood samples for their Flight Day 5 session of CSA’s Marrow and JAXA’s CFE and Medical Proteomics investigations.  Air samples were collected for the Marrow investigation as well.

Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
For the CFE study, blood samples are collected from astronauts and cellular genes are analyzed.  The results provide insight into how human bodies function during space flight. 
The Medical Proteomics investigation evaluates changes of proteins in blood serum, bone and skeletal muscles after space flight, and also supports identification of osteopenia-related proteins. By combining research results for space mice, astronauts and ground patients, proteins related to osteopenia can be identified using the latest proteome analysis technique.  It is anticipated that the use of the marker proteins related to osteopenia will be of benefit in the future for assessing the health of astronauts as well as osteoporosis patients on ground. 

Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of 55S, all crewmembers participated today in an Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review. Items of discussion included crew accountability, access to escape vehicles, and ISS Commander responsibilities. Due to the complex nature of emergencies in space, it is imperative each crewmember is fully familiar with the various emergency procedures and strategies in place. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for this week’s US EVA #51 Node 2 External Wireless Communications (EWC), the crew used computer-aided simulations to review EVA procedures via Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG).  Later in the day, the crew participated in an EVA procedures conference to review their DOUG session and EVA procedures with ground specialists. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics specialists conducted a Mobile Transporter (MT) Translation from Work Site (WS)4 to WS3 this afternoon and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on the
Mobile Base System (MBS)-2.  Once complete, they grappled the Node 2 (N2) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) with SSRMS.  These activities put the MSS in the required configuration to support Thursday’s US EVA #51 Node 2 External Wireless Communications (EWC). 
Marinara Service Pack (SP) Deploy: This morning, ground specialists deployed the Marinara SP on three crew-assigned Space Station Computers (SSCs). This update adds additional ground troubleshooting capabilities and supports upcoming payloads and Tech Demos.  Remaining SSCs will be loaded with the SP during crew sleep pending a successful checkout of this morning’s updated computers.  
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


CSA Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection
CSA Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Configuration
CSA Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Spin Conclude
MELFI Insert for JAXA Blood Samples
CSA Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
CSA Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
ISS Crew Orientation
Multi Omics FOS Stow
Auxiliary Laptop Computer System Virus Definition File Update
Multi Omics FOS Preparation
COSMOCARD. Preparing for and Starting 24-hr ECG Recording. 
GRIP Big Picture Words reading
Multi Omics Fecal Sample Operations
Photography of Plume Impingement and Deposit Monitoring Unit (БКДО) position on MRM2 through SM window No.13 – preparation
DOSIS 3D Passive Detector Pouch handover after upload of dosimeters with Soyuz.
Multi Omics Fecal Sample MELFI Insertion
Soyuz 739 Transfers and IMS Ops
Installation of the DOSIS 3D passive detector packs in Columbus and photo documentation.
Multi Omics Fecal Stow
Treadmill 2 (T2) Handover Video Review
Photography of Plume Impingement and Deposit Monitoring Unit (БКДО) position on MRM2 from SM window No.13
XF305 Camcorder Setup
FROST2 FOAM CORRECTION
GRIP setup in the seated configuration
SSC System HV5-Server Network Boot
MATRYOSHKA-R. Transfer of Phantom Set kit from Soyuz 739 to MRM1, outfitting with detectors, setup at exposure location. Photography.
Removal of HERO3 camera in Soyuz 739. Transfer of Video to Hard Drive. Flash card closeout ops. Start Charging Battery (6).
SSC12 Ethernet Cable Swap
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collect
GRIP science performance in seated position
Bringing ODF up to date using Soyuz 739 delivered files
Coliform Water Processing
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Buffer Container (BC) Changeout
Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Setup
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Setup Historical Photo
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review
Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software Review
СОЖ maintenance
Photography of ТП228 mockup temperature sensors on the external surface of MRM2
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
Deactivation of Soyuz 738 Gas Analyzer
Deactivation of Soyuz 739 Gas Analyzer
Checking БД-2 treadmill carriage position. Photograph position of БД-2 carriage relative to pullout roller by lifting БД-2 curtain. Downlink photo via OCA
Treadmill 2 (T2) Handover Video Review
T2 Crew Handover
ARED Handover Video Review
ARED Crew Handover
Soyuz 739 HERO3 GoPro HEROS camera battery charge (6) termination and stowage.
Wireless Compose SD Card Data Copy
Multi Omics Item Gathering
Onboard Training (OBT) Robotics On-board Trainer (ROBoT) Setup
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
CSA Generic Frozen Blood Collection Setup
IMS Update
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Conference

Completed Task List Activities:

EVA Tool Configuration [GMT 160]
SSC17 Power Cable Troubleshooting 

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


MT Translation and SSRMS Ops
Marinara Service Pack Deploy

