
Payloads:
Crew Earth Observations (CEO): The Crew utilized the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF) window to perform CEO Operations. CEO utilizes crewmembers on the ISS to photograph the Earth using digital handheld cameras from their unique point of view located over 250 miles above the surface. Photographs record how the planet is changing over time, from human-caused changes like urban growth and reservoir construction, to natural dynamic events such as hurricanes, floods, and volcanic eruptions. A major emphasis of CEO is to monitor events needing immediate (disaster-level) response in support of the International Disaster Charter (IDC) (coordinated through the US Geological Survey). CEO imagery provides researchers on Earth with key data to understand the planet from the perspective of the ISS. Crew members have been photographing Earth from space since the early Mercury missions beginning in 1961. The images taken from the ISS ensure this record remains unbroken.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): The air supply Gas Bottle Unit (GBU) was replaced. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in Kibo.
EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station Racks (EXPRESS Rack): The crew performed the first half of the ExPRESS Laptop Computer (ELC) CLS 14 Software installation setup on to ELC4 and ELC8. The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
Integrated System for Autonomous and Adaptive Caretaking (ISAAC): Camcorders were setup, and the Astrobee Free Flyer performed ground recording operations and then the crew undocked and translated the flyer to specified locations for additional recording. The ISAAC project demonstrates using autonomous robots in human exploration vehicles to track vehicle health, transfer and unpack cargo, and respond to critical faults such as leaks and fires. ISAAC uses the space station’s Astrobee and Robonaut robots for the demonstration. This technology could be used on vehicles and habitats on future exploration missions to the Moon and Mars to maintain vehicles while astronauts are away for extended periods.
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer-21 (NRCSD-21):  NRCSD-21 launchers were searched for as they will be returning on the upcoming Cargo Dragon, SpaceX-25 (SpX-25). The NRCSD is a self-contained CubeSat deployer system that mechanically and electrically isolates CubeSats and has been in operation since 2014. NRCSD-21 will be launching CAP Sat (Cooling, Annealing, and Pointing Satellite), PR-CuNa R2 (Puerto Rico CubeSat NanoRocks-2), and SPACE HAUC (Science Program Around Communications Engineering with High Achieving Undergraduate Cadres).
Systems:
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Helmet Troubleshooting: Today, the crew performed additional troubleshooting and data gathering on the Neck Ring of ExtraVehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3004 and Helmet 1090. This troubleshooting was done to investigate the issue discovered on June 7th when the helmet was unable to lock onto the EMU. The crew discovered that part of the Thermal Micrometeoroid Garment (TMG) was folded over the neck ring interface, repositioned the TMG, and successfully installed the Helmet to the EMU. The Neck Ring is the mechanical interface that connects the helmet with the Hard Upper Torso (HUT).
Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew completed the final cargo transfer operations between the ISS and Cygnus cargo vehicle, NG-17, loading items like common trash for disposal. NG-17 is planned for unberth later this month where it will depart the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill: As part of regularly scheduled preventive maintenance, the crew performed a manual WHC flush tank fill. By using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as the burp, they depressurized the flush water tank and water valve block to protect the dose pump. The pump is critical as it injects the pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Cygnus Table Load and Repress
Astrobee Live Streaming Video and Imagery
ZBook SSC Client Load and Configure
OPM for Cygnus Reboost [Deferred]

