06-19-2010June 19, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/19/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – crew half-duty day.   Crew wake time is back to normal: 2:00am-5:30pm EDT.   FE-3 Kornienko started out by conducting the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   At wake-up, FE-2 Tracy Caldwell-Dyson continued her current session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   Caldwell-Dyson also continued the new week-long run of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), her 4th, transferring data from her Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Returning to the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Tracy concluded her support of the CSLM (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures)-2 experiment in the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), ending the last of four vacuum venting cycles and preparing the SPU (Sample Processing Unit) for sample processing.      [After configuring the MSG, closing the vacuum vent valves, removing the vacuum hose and connecting the SPU to MSG power/data, Tracy opened the SPU water valve.  The ECU (Electronics Control Unit) in the MSG work volume was then to be powered on by the ground to begin sample processing for the next 48 hours.]   Also in COL, Tracy worked on the MARES (Muscle Atrophy Resistive Exercise System) Rack, going over the rack to confirm the presence and proper installation of a number of bolts at various places.     [After return to Earth of STS-131/19A, a number of loose MARES launch lock-down bolts were found in the Leonardo MPLM (Multi-Purpose Logistics Module).  Tracy’s activity today was to verify all bolts currently installed in the rack, which should also ensure that there are no more loose bolts in the MPLM as it is readied for its next launch.]   The six-member crew joined for the important 2-hr Crew Safety Handover (peredacha del po bezopasnosti), to familiarize them with procedures and escape routes in case of an emergency, and to clarify emergency roles & responsibilities.  CDR Skvortsov went through formally listed procedures in discussing the ISS prime to non-prime crew emergency roles & responsibility agreements established during ground training.  A ground specialist tagup wrapped up the obligatory session.     [Safety is of primary concern on board.  Safety Handover includes safety-related items such as (1) emergency actions, equipment and individual crew roles & responsibilities for the four hazard areas (depressurization, fire, ammonia release, non-ammonia toxic release), (2) visiting vehicles docking/undocking, (3) evacuation vehicles, (4) crew life support system status, (5) computers, (6) communications, (7) medical equipment & provisions, (8) stowage, (9) IVA hazards (e.g., sharp edges, protrusions, touch temperatures) and (10) stowage and current hardware status.  Aboard the station are 2 potential sources of Toxic Level 4-chemicals (external thermal loops; Vozdukh) and 7 Tox-2 sources such as Elektron, METOX cans, LiOH cans and batteries.  Prime/non-prime crew roles assignments: the CDR will be responsible for crew headcount; for Fire in the RS (Russian Segment), the three cosmonauts will be prime, i.e. responsible for generally working the response, while Caldwell-Dyson, Wheelock & Walker would stay in their respective Soyuz vehicles or other safe areas; for Rapid Depress, in general Tracy would calculate the all-important T.res (remaining time), Mikhail would manipulate valves & hatches, Alexander would run procedures & coordinate communications; for a Toxic Leak (ammonia), each crewmember is assigned specific tasks in retrieving respirators, detection kits, Sokol suits, go-to locations, etc.  Soyuz vehicle preparations for descent could be required very quickly.]   Alex Skvortsov completed the routine task of shooting two photos of the docking cone of the passive docking assembly (ASP-B) of the SM (Service Module) aft port occupied by the Soyuz TMA-19/23S, a standard practice after Russian dockings.  These images are used to refine current understanding of docking conditions.  Sasha subsequently downlinked the pictures via OCA assets.     [The objective is to take photo imagery of the scratch or scuff marks left by the head of the docking probe on the internal surface of the drogue (docking cone, ASP) ring, now rotated out of the passageway.  Before shooting the picture, the cosmonaut highlights the scuffmark with a marker and writes the date next to it.  As other crewmembers before him, Alex used the Nikon D2X digital still camera to take two pictures with the hatch partially closed.]   Mikhail Kornienko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Later, Misha also performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.   The newcomers – Wheelock, Yurchikhin & Walker – went through the mandatory CMS (Countermeasure Systems) overview session to familiarize themselves with the use of the CEVIS cycle ergometer, TVIS & T2 treadmills and ARED exerciser, including location of personal exercise equipment such as ergometer shoes and PCMCIA memory cards.     Later, Shannon & Wheels also observed Tracy doing her workout on the T2/COLBERT treadmill.   The new crewmembers had several hours set aside for crew onboard orientation and adaptation.     [The first two weeks after their arrival, a new ISS crew will have 1 hour a day to adjust to living in space.  Additional time is also allocated for getting familiar with the – by now – extensive new “home in space” and its research equipment.]   As one of her first scheduled activities onboard, FE-6 Walker performed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) laptops.   Tracy filled out her weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   At ~7:20am EDT, Misha Kornienko held his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).   At ~9:00am, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   At ~10:30am, the entire crew joined in shooting video footage of each other and onboard activities, intended for airing at the traditional Charity Festival at the Windlesham House School (West Sussex, UK), to be held July 3-4, attended by about 1500 students from schools of Great Britain and other countries. This year the festival is called "Odyssey".    [Over the years many students from West Sussex have visited TsUP-Moscow and participated in the International Space Olympics in Korolev.  In 1999, a teleconference linked pupils of West Sussex with the crew of Mir, and in June 2007, the crew of ISS-15, a member of which was Fyodor Yurchikhin, participated in a school festival "Elements".  This year, organizers also plan to participate in the festival ISS.  The crew was asked to record, at high resolution and using a Shure microphone, five scripted subjects, under the motto “Odyssey - let the journey begin!!!”]   FE-4, FE-5 & FE-6 were scheduled for their first PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Fyodor at ~12:06pm, Shannon at ~2:00pm, Wheels at ~3:15pm.   Tracy, Misha & Sasha completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).   Jobs listed for Skvortsov & Kornienko today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –  Another ~40-min. run of      the GFI-8      "Uragan"      (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D2X digital camera      photography with 800mm telelens, A ~30-min. photography      session for the DZZ-13      “Seiner”      ocean observation program, obtaining data on oceanic water blooms, then      copying the images to the RSK-1      laptop, and A ~30-min. session for      Russia's EKON      Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial      photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X      camera.    Conjunction Update:   Flight controllers are continuing to monitor the three different objects –  Object 14277 (SL-12 R/B      Aux Motor), TCA: Sunday, 6/20, 4:11am; Object 33141 (Cosmos 2421      Debris), TCA: Sunday, 6/20, 7:05am; Object 31004 (Fengyun 1C      Debris), TCA: Sunday, 6/20, 8:52a.   As of this morning. The PC (Probability of Collision) for all objects was “green”, i.e., zero or negligible.  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Four -- Week 2)  2-D NANO Template (JAXA):    The sample was stowed in MELFI to extend sample life on 6/10.  The experiment is planned to start on 7/9.   3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    This ISS backup radiation monitoring system remains non-operational.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   FE-5 performed a session on 5/14.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):     “TJ, thank you for completing another session of BISE.”  BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    Returned with 19A.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    “CIR MDCA had a successful return to performing FLEX test points!  On 6/14, four test points from the science matrix were successfully performed, and one "extra" test point was performed to finish off the Heptane Fuel Reservoir, which is due to be replaced on 6/23.  Two test points were performed with heptane fuel at a 0.7 atm chamber environment of 25% O2, 15% CO2, and 60% N2:  Test #1 - Droplet diameter of 3.5 mm, with no support fiber. Very clean deployment with minimal drift early in the burn. End of burn characterized by what appeared to be a rapid droplet fragmentation.  Flame was mildly sooty at beginning and as droplet continued to burn the flame’s sooting diminished and turned pure blue.  Test #2 - Droplet diameter of 3 mm, with support fiber and translation. Very clean deployment; minimal droplet oscillation along fiber, mostly stable undisturbed burning. Flame structure similar to previous test.  Three test points were performed with heptane fuel at a 0.7 atm chamber environment of 24% O2, 20% CO2, and 56% N2:  Test #3 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm, with no support fiber. Extremely clean deployment with essentially zero drift. Radiative extinction observed followed, after about 10 seconds, by vapor cloud condensation and light scattering.  Test #4 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm, with support fiber and translation. Very clean deployment with minimal droplet oscillation along, very stable undisturbed burning. Radiative extinction observed followed, after about 20 seconds, by vapor cloud condensation and light scattering.  Test #5 (Extra) - Droplet diameter of 3 mm, with support fiber. Clean deployment but droplet fell off fiber after about 7 seconds.  Radiative Extinction – Flame extinction caused by excessive radiative energy loss from the flame; occurs at relatively larger droplet and flame sizes.”  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    “The vacuum vent hose for CSLM-2 was connected.  Initiated and completed the Vacuum Vent 1, then initiated the Vacuum Vent 2 on the first Sample Processing Unit.  The values for temperature and humidity were all within spec, thanks for the good work.”  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report. CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    The active DOSTEL detectors continue to acquire science data.  Monthly data downlink completed on 5/28.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):     Water pump servicing performed on 5/13.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):     “Tracy did a fantastic job completing the EPO-Cloud Observation-Demo.  The video will be used for the NASA Student Cloud Observations On-Line or S'COOL Project and will be edited and posted to the website.”  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   Photo session was performed on 6/14.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    Performed on 5/1 as VolSci.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  Ferulate:    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):    No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    “Thank you Tracy for your work on the FSL troubleshooting and for getting the Digital Line Tape (DLT) out.  Unfortunately the same SCSI error occurred again after your activity.  The detailed information and great pictures you took are very helpful and are being used by ground teams to define the next steps.”  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    2nd Hair sampling for FE-6 was performed on 5/13.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    “The RAIDS instrument will continue scanning the upper atmosphere collecting thermosphere temperature and composition data.   RAIDS will briefly suspend operations for the planned docking 6/ 17.  Interesting HICO targets are as follows: 1) More images of the oil spill and surrounding areas (the focus has turned to vegetation monitoring, and we're expecting to see changes as the oil hits the marsh lands and barrier islands, as well as the coast).  2) We will continue to image the St Lawrence estuary to get some images of the bloom.  3) We'll image several of our calibration targets (both land and water).  4) We'll image the Chesapeake Bay, the Bahamas and a few remote islands in the Pacific as well. HREP is operating nominally and 1152 images have been taken to date.”  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    No report.   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    Performed the 10th run successfully (by ground commanding) on 4/17-4/18.  Matryoshka-2:    Acquiring science data.  Marangoni UVP:    1st run was performed on 6/14-15. 2nd run was performed on 6/15-16.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE7 (Materials ISS Experiment):   MISSE7 is operating nominally.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.   MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   No report.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.   NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADIAK:    Experiment has to be postponed due to KUBIK-3 anomaly.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):   Dosimeter set-up performed on FD12 of ULF4.  Photo session was performed on 5/27 from Task List.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    Data downlink completed on 5/28 and received well on-ground.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    Sample launched by 36P; was recovered by 21S.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   No report.   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    A CGSE/CBEF CO2 leak check has been completed.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Tracy, your sleep shift session for Reaction Self Test will continue through 6/23.  For a sleep shift session, Reaction Self Test is performed twice daily for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following the sleep shift.  Tracy, thank you for completing your Sleep logs this week.  As a reminder, an eighth Sleep log-entry activity has been scheduled for Monday (6/21) due to the Sleep shifting.  We plan to downlink the logs on 6/28 to send to the PI and look forward to receiving another set of good data.”  SMILES (JAXA):    SLOC (submillimeter local oscillator controller) troubleshooting is underway.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    The Sun observation window#29 ended nominally on 6/13, 21 orbits of observation were lost due to two Analogue Input Board (AIB) failures, 21S undock, IGS rack maintenance, SM thruster test and 37P reboost. Next Sun observation window is predicted to start on 7/8.   SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.   Space-DRUMS:    No report.    SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    “Tracy, the MIT SPHERES team thanks you for all the time and effort you put into setting up our beacons in the JEM area.  We know our setup is tough, and that the procedures are very detailed.  We also know from experience, after you've done this once or twice, running SPHERES becomes much more straight forward.  We are currently trying to recreate/resolve the problem you experienced with the GUI.  We have a great lineup of science tests to do over the summer and hope we have the opportunity to work with you in future exciting science sessions.  Now that you have the beacons setup in the JEM, we'll get to science a lot faster the next time. Thanks again for all of your diligent work.”  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Thank you, Tracy, for this second flawless session of THERMOLAB !”   TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):     No report.   VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   Through 6/16, the ground has received a total of 409 frames of CEO imagery for review and cataloging.  Although imagery was acquired at times corresponding to our target request times (Black Pt. Lava Flow, AZ and Lake Poopo, Bolivia), none acquired the target.  Please feel free to provide us feedback on anything we can do to help you locate our targets.  This past weekend we published your spectacular view acquired in late May of a sunset over the Indian Ocean, on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website.  This view has also been used for PAO purposes.  Kudos to the Crew!  We note with great interest your GMT Day 165 views of Polar Mesospheric clouds (PMC) over Western Europe.  This is a dynamic event target that we request whenever we feel viewing conditions are favorable.  Thanks for alert efforts to acquire these excellent unsolicited shots.”   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Oil Spill (Dynamic Event: Oil Spill, Gulf of Mexico: Looking to the left of track, off the coast of the Mississippi Delta [bird’s foot] for the presence of oil on the surface.  Continuing photography for about two minutes, sunlight could have improved the visibility of the extent of the oil.  The last image of the oil spill taken in May from the ISS was very popular with the public), Matavai Bay, Tahiti (HMS Beagle site: Looking on the north coast of Tahiti, the largest island for Matavai Bay.  Darwin stopped here in November 1835, near the present capital city of Papeete.  In Darwin's words: " …we landed to enjoy all the delights of the first impressions produced by a new country … - Crowds of men, women & children were collected on the memorable point Venus ready to receive us…" [this was the site where Captain Cook in HMS Endeavour observed the transit of Venus on 3 June1769].  Darwin climbed a narrow river gorge heading towards the central peak of the island; remarking "These precipices must have been some thousand feet high, the whole formed a mountain gorge far more magnificent than anything I had ever beheld."), and Tarawa Atoll, Kiribati (Tarawa is an atoll in the central Pacific Ocean.  It is the capital of the Republic of Kiribati.  Looking to the left of orbit track).  