
Payloads:
Kibo Robot Programming Challenge-4 (Robo Pro Challenge): In preparation for the upcoming Robo Pro Challenge tech rehearsal, the perching arm was attached to the Astrobee free flyer. Technical Rehearsals are used to test and verify various elements of the real Robo-Pro challenge. In the actual competition, the student teams will develop code to direct Astrobee to locate and seal a virtual ammonia leak in the ISS cabin. The Robo-Pro Challenge, also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the ISS. This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering, and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The crew gained access to the MSL furnace area and exchanged Sample Cartridge Assemblies (SCAs). The processed Copper Indium Sulfide Defect Crystal Growth-C1 (CISDG-C1) SCA was removed, and the calibration cartridge was installed. CISDG synthesizes copper indium sulfide (CuInS2) semiconductor crystals in microgravity. These crystals could be used to manufacture more efficient and economical photovoltaic or solar cell devices. Manufacturing such solar cells requires controlling chemical defects in the crystals, and the lack of gravity-driven convection in microgravity could enable this control.
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer-16 (NRCSD-26): In preparation for the NRCSD-26 launcher installation later this week, the Multipurpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) was installed to the JEM Airlock slide table. The MPEP serves as an adapter for the NRCSD installation. NRCSD-26 will deploy six satellites in the near future (SC-ODIN, MoonLighter, RADSAT-SK, Ukpik-1, ESSENCE, and IRIS). Some of the objectives for the NRCSD-26 satellites include Earth imagery, student projects, materials research, and geological sample exposure to space weather. The NRCSD system is an external deployer that is installed in the JEM airlock and robotically placed in the deploy configuration using the JEM robotic arm.
Plant Habitat-03b: Preparation activities were performed in support of the upcoming Plant Habitat-03b experiment. Plant Habitat-03b will continue the previous Plant Habitat-03a experiment by growing a second generation of plants exposed to microgravity. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight: a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food as well as air and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The fill was then terminated and the Post-Flight Analysis Bag was analyzed after the pressure relief burp. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
SpX-28 Departure Preparations: Several activities were completed in preparation for SpX-28 undock and return later this week. The crew continued transferring cargo items into bags and the Dragon vehicle, and completed a powered payload review. The crew also changed out the Cargo Dragon LiOH cartridge and performed a Dragon Zenith Docking System hatch seal inspection and cleaning.
Node 2 Zenith Photo Survey: In preparation for the Pressurized Mating Adapter 2 (PMA-2) relocation to support the Axiom Commercial Segment, the crew performed a photo survey. This survey included the Node 2 Overhead Hatch and associated hardware, and is one of several planned surveys in support of the PMA-2 relocation.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Surface Sampler Kit (SSK) and Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Analysis: Today, the crew visually analyzed media slides and Petri dishes after incubation and sorted for return. These samples will give medical personnel a gauge of microbial growth in the air and on surfaces of ISS. The EHS monitors the atmosphere for gaseous contaminants from nonmetallic materials off-gassing, combustion products, propellants, microbial contaminants from crew members and Station activities, water quality, acoustics, and radiation levels.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS Walkoff to Lab PDGF
EHDC Checkout
MT Translation

