
Payloads:
Cardiobreath: The Bio-Monitor wearables were used prior to, after, and during a CEVIS exercise to record data for the Cardiobreath experiment. Astronauts experience changes in their cardiovascular, respiratory, and musculoskeletal systems during spaceflight, which can affect their capacity to exercise and to maintain blood pressure when standing after return to Earth. Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (Cardiobreath) studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight. Results could provide a better understanding of the mechanisms of these adaptations on long-duration missions and support development of methods for assessing cardiovascular and respiratory effects on blood pressure before and after spaceflight.
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS-3D): The Memory Card (SD card) was exchanged on the DOSIS main box in an attempt to reconnect detectors 1 and 2. Reconnection was no joy and the crew was told to stand down on further troubleshooting efforts for today. ISS crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation which can be harmful to their health. DOSIS-3D uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS.
Immunity Assay: Samples were transferred from Iceberg-2 to the Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI-2) cold stowage facility. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham contact was initiated with Space Port Area Conference for Educators, Kennedy Space Center, FL. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crewmembers 10 to 20 questions.
Systems:
Columbus European IP Communication Laptop (EICL) ZBooks UltraBay Hard Drive R&R: After Monday’s boot-up failures, the crew removed the ZBook UltraBay Hard Disk Drive (HDD) from EICL #2 and EICL #1 ZBooks in Columbus. The crew then swapped and installed the ZBook UltraBay HDDs into EICL #2 and EICL #1. EICL #1 was booted from the internal HDD and left on.
EVA Battery Operations Terminal (EBOT) Charger 1 Troubleshooting and Removal: In preparation for EBOT activities, the crew performed Airlock configurations and rotated the Avionics Rack down to access EBOT Charger 1. The crew then completed troubleshooting for the failed Charger 1 by swapping power cables with Charger 3 and performing a power on test. Upon Charger 1 power on, RPCM_AL1A4A_B RPC 5 tripped as expected, so the crew reconfigured W075-P5 to Charger 3 and removed the failed Charger 1 from the Airlock rack. The crew closed out the Airlock and packed Charger 1 for return. Finally, the crew powered on EBOT Chargers 2 and 3 and performed a closed circuit voltage check to verify functionality. Stowage items were then moved back into the Airlock.
On-orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA) with KUDUwave Software Setup and Test: The crew performed a hearing test using an OOHA Headset and KUDUwave software. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Wring Collector (COT), Air Hose and Liquid Indicator Remove and Replace (R&R): As part of preventive maintenance, the crew performed an R&R of the COT, air hoses, and Liquid Indicator. The function of the COT is to collect any liquid downstream of the waste collector or the pump separator, and the downstream Liquid Indicator detects whether any liquid is coming from the COT. The air hoses remove air humidity in the COT.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SPS RPC Firmware Update
SPS RPC Close Test
Dragon Propulsion Valve EVA Close

