
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  The crew set up and checked out the spare Rodent Habitat which replaces Rodent Habitat 2 that has excessive condensation in its water box.  Later the crew will perform injections of the mice in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  Spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system; therefore, it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight.
Multi Omics-Mouse:  The crew completed initial steps to prepare and check out hardware and facilities to be used for the Multi Omics-Mouse investigation to be performed with rodents arriving on SpaceX-12.  They cleaned the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF), reconfigured video cables between the CBEF and Video Compression and Recording Unit 2 for multiple video channels, installed and set up the Mouse Habitat Unit (MHU) Experiment Laptop Terminal 2, replaced ammonia sensors in the Mouse Habitat Microgravity Interface and 1G units, and installed the Mouse Habitat Unit Back Up Interface Unit. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  The crew collected a saliva sample and placed it in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) in support of the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation.  MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1 year period through surface and air sampling.  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS to understand the microbial flora diversity and how it may change over time.
NanoRacks Module-52:  The crew performed a status check of subexperiments inside NanoRacks Module-52.  Photographs were taken of the petri dishes and video will be downlinked.  NanoRacks Module-52 is a collection of 6 student-led biological experiments photo-documenting the life-cycle of various molds and bacteria on petri plates in microgravity.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Microbial Tracking-2 Sample MELFI Retrieval Insert
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
JEM Camera Robot Activation
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Wipe Previous Mouse breed
Synchronization of Nikon Camera with Station Time
CBEF Video Cable Reconfiguration to Video Compression and Recording Unit 2 (VRU2)
Unpacking of First Priority and USOS Cargo Items from Progress 436 (SM Aft). IMS Update
Rodent Habitat 2 Spare Habitat Checkout
JEM Fire Indicator Illumination Function Checkout
Rodent Habitat 2 Prime to Backup location
Rodent Habitat 2 Spare Habitat Setup
JEM Camera Robot Deactivation
WHC Full Fill
NanoRacks Module-52 Status 2
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Deactivation
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) On Board Training (OBT)
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Rodent Research 5 Injection 2B
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 4
PK-4 data hard drives exchange
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 8
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 5
SM Rodnik Water Tank 2 (БВ2) Disinfectant Fill
Rodent Research 5 Injection 2A
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Initiation
Rodent Research Habitat Stow
Mouse Habitat Unit(MHU) Experiment Laptop Terminal 2 (ELT2) Setup
Extravehicular Metal Oxide Regenerator Verification
Mouse Habitat Unit Interface Unit Ammonia sensor Exchange
Mouse Habitat Unit Back Up Interface Unit Installation
Hematocrit. Hardware Setup 

Completed Task List Items

ZBook Client Swap (SSC13 – NOD2)

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

ROSA Ops
Rodent Research Ops support

