
3D Printing in Zero-G Experiment Setup: Today, the crew set up the 3D Printer in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) work volume.  The payload ground team remotely operated the device to produce two 3D printed test coupons, and the crew removed and stowed each of them. The 3D Printing In Zero-G experiment demonstrates that a 3D printer works normally in space. In general, a 3D printer extrudes streams of heated plastic, metal or other material, building layer on top of layer to create 3 dimensional objects. Testing a 3D printer using relatively low-temperature plastic feedstock on the ISS is the first step toward establishing an on-demand machine shop in space, a critical enabling component for deep-space crewed missions and in-space manufacturing.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEM A/L) Operations: In preparation for tomorrow’s EXHAM installation on the JEM Exposed Facility (JEF) the JEM A/L was depressurized and the crew performed a leak check and vented residual air. When venting was complete, the vent valve and JEM A/L backup manual valve were closed.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew completed a session of the Habitability experiment by recording and submitting a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Training: The crew completed this refresher course on some of the equipment and procedures taught in the CMO classes covering crew illness and/or injury. Lessons include text, pictures and video detailing previously learned medical procedures and hardware.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Verification of anti-virus scan results on Auxiliary Computer System [ВКС] laptops / r/g 8247
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Activation of MSG glove box
On MCC GO Regeneration of БМП Ф2 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
JEM A/L Depress and Vent
TM750 Camcorder Battery Operation Checkout 
VIZIR. Measuring SM panels 114, 116 / r/g 2655
Activation of Progress 431 (DC1), Air Duct Removal / IRS Activation/Deactivation
ARED exercise video setup
3D Printing in Zero-G Payload Overview
On MCC GO Removal of ССВП Quick-Disconnect screw clamps from DC1 side and video of DC1- Progress 431 interface
3D Printing in Zero-G Hardware Gather
DC1-Progress 431 Hatch Closure / IRS Activation/Deactivation 
Cleaning FGB Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger (ГЖТ) Detachable Screens 1, 2, 3
On MCC GO DC1-СУ and СУ- Progress 431 Hatch Leak Check / IRS Activation/Deactivation
3DP Hardware Setup
Scheduled monthly maintenance of Central Post Laptop. Laptop Log-File Downlink r/g 1888
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring / r/g 1588
Vacuum Cleaning of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in DC1
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
URAGAN. Observation and Photography using VSS / r/g 2658
JEMAL Verifying depressurization complete
JEM Airlock Depressurization and Vent Confirmation
ALGOMETRIA. Experiment Ops / r/g 2386
Soyuz 720 Samsung Tablet Recharge – initiate
ALGOMETRIA. Experiment Ops / r/g 2385
Filling EDV (KVO) for Elektron r/g 2660
3DP Printed Coupon Removal and Stowage
Crew Onboard Training (OBT) Self-Assessment Questionnaire
TEPC Transfer
СОЖ Maintenance
WRS Water Sample Analysis
Crew Onboard Training (OBT) Self-Assessment Questionnaire
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
HABIT Preparing for the experiment
3DP Printed Coupon Removal and Stowage
Soyuz 720 Samsung tablet charge, end
IMS Delta File Prep
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
CONTENT. Experiment Ops / r/g 2656
FGB ЦВ1 Fan Grille Cleaning / Ventilation and Air Conditioning System
ARED Exercise Video Equipment Stowage
Evening Work Prep
CONTENT. Experiment Ops / r/g 2657
TOCA Data Recording
On MCC GO БМП Ф2 Absorption Cartridge Regeneration (end)

Completed Task List Items

None

 Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

JEM A/L depress
Nominal ground commanding

 