
TangoLab-2 (Space Tango MultiLab Locker): The crew successfully performed troubleshooting steps to recover commanding capability for Tangolab-2 card 14. TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable general research facilities designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS.
Capillary Driven Microfluidics: The crew performed a plate changeout in order to begin the 4th cartridge run. Capillary-Driven Microfluidics in Space (Capillary Driven Microfluidics) examines the drawing of fluids into a tiny narrow tube in microgravity. Results may improve current mathematical models and understanding of microfluidic systems and improve fluid control in various devices. Diagnostic devices require separation of blood cells and plasma, which have different densities, and the absence of sedimentation and buoyancy-driven convection in microgravity improves the efficiency of this separation.
FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory) Soft Matter Dynamics & Compacted Granulars: The crew exchanged Sample 01 with Sample 02 inside the Soft Matter Dynamics (SMD) Experiment Container in the Lower drawer (CEM Lower) of the FSL. FSL Soft Matter Dynamics – Hydrodynamics of Wet Foams (Foam Coarsening) aims to investigate bubble size and rearrangement dynamics for “wet foams”. Microgravity offers the opportunity to investigate such “wet” foams, which cannot be stabilized on Earth because of drainage. Moreover, microgravity conditions are essential to study rearrangement phenomena, such as coarsening and coalescence, disentangled from drainage.
EM (Electrolysis Measurement): The crew removed the Electrolysis Measurement and SAMS Hardware from MSG Work Volume. Electrolytic Gas Evolution Under Microgravity (Electrolysis Measurement) examines the influence of gravity on electrolytic gas evolution, a complex electrochemical process with multiple applications on Earth and in space. For example, electrolysis generates bubbles that can be used to create pressure differentials in microfluidic devices, such as skin patches, used to deliver medications. Microgravity makes it possible to single out bubble growth and study its effect on the process.
Systems
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Nitrogen (N2) Repress: Today, the crew assisted the ground flight control team with a repress of the ISS cabin atmosphere using N2 from a NORS tank. When the NORS tank is empty, it will be returned to ground where it will be inspected, recharged, and manifested on an upcoming resupply mission.
Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) Test Module Checkout: Today, the crew performed checkouts of the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) SAFERs units planned for use on US EVA #65. The activity consisted of deploying the Hand Control Modules (HCM), executing the SAFER thruster and rate sensor tests, and recording the SAFER indicated nitrogen pressure and battery charge. Once the tests were completed, the crew re-stowed the HCMs. The SAFERS will be installed onto the EMUs when the crew is donning their suits for US EVA #65.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuration: In preparation for US EVA #65 (S6 Battery EVA #1), the crew completed their pre-EVA tool configurations. Tomorrow, the crew will perform a final tool audit to ensure all of the necessary tools and configurations needed have been prepared.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today, ground controllers (ROBO) began preparing the MSS for US EVA #65 by performing a translation of the MSS Mobile Transporter from Worksite (WS) 5 to WS 1. Following the MT translation, ROBO commanded the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to perform a ‘walk-off’ maneuver to Mobil Base System #2 (MBS 2). Following the walk-off, the SSRMS grappled the H-II Transfer Vehicle 9 (HTV9) Exposed Pallet (EP) at the Payload ORU Accommodation (POA). The EP is contains the new Li-Ion batteries and adapters that will be used to upgrade the S6 power channel batteries. Later today, ROBO, will release and unstow the EP from the POA and maneuver the SSRMS and EP to a temporary parking position and unpower the MSS.
Completed Task List Activities:

Replacement of broken ISL Ethernet Cable connected to SSC23

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System N2 Repress
PPS CH 1A/1B Seamless Power Channel Handover (SPCH)/Battery Discharge (1B)
SSRMS Grapple of EP, POA release, and SSRMS maneuver to park

