06-27-2010June 27, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/27/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – crew off-duty day.  Ahead: Week 4 of Increment 24  >>>With solar Beta angle in its “high” region (now slowly coming down), ISS is in constant sunlight, offering great naked-eye visibility opportunities at local nighttime.  For viewing times check http://spaceflight.nasa.gov/realdata/sightings/index.html !<<<   CDR Skvortsov completed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   At wake-up, FE-4 Wheelock continued his first session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.  This run closes out tomorrow morning.       [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken during the day.]   FE-4 also started his FD15 (Flight Day 15) 24-hr collections of urine samples for the NUTRITION/Repository/Pro K protocol, his first onboard session with the new routine (modified from the past NUTRITION w/Repository protocol).  Later in the day, Wheels broke out and set up the equipment for collecting his blood samples tomorrow.     [The operational products for blood & urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]   FE-6 Shannon Walker had her first session with the Pro K protocol, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.   Also at wake-up, FE-2 Tracy Caldwell-Dyson completed another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   Alex Skvortsov conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].   An additional task completed by Sasha in the SM was the routine weekly inspection of the SVO SRV-K2M (Condensate Water Processor) hoses from the MF-R Diaphragm Separator Filter to the BRPK Condensate Separation & Pumping Unit.   Caldwell-Dyson performed the periodic status check on the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge, looking for any internal condensation moisture which would require replacing desiccants.    [MERLIN is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.]   Later, FE-2 serviced the CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures-2) experiment in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory).     [Tracy terminated the last (of 4) vacuum vents on SPU-10 (Sample Processing Unit  #10) and prepared for sample processing for the next 48 hours by powering up the ECU (Electronics Control Unit) in the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) work volume, taking humidity & temperature readings and initiating sample heating.]   At ~12:13pm EDT, Alex, Mikhail & Fyodor joined in a ham/amateur radio exchange with students, post-grads and faculty at Irkutsk State Technical University (IrGTU).   At ~1:58pm, the three Russian crewmembers also downlinked messages of greetings & salutations to the participants of the All-Russian Youth Forum "Seliger - 2010", to be held July 1-28 on Seliger Lake in Tver Region.    [Mission of the Forum: Create a platform on which any young person and the team can demonstrate their talent, augment human capital, to find like-minded people and gain public and government support.  Main problem areas: provision of additional education, necessary services and services for the project participants.  Forum "Seliger" is an autonomous field camp with an innovative infrastructure, visited annually by tens of thousands of talented young people from all regions of the Russian Federation.]   FE-4 & FE-5 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Fyodor at ~7:50am, Wheels at ~12:25pm & later at ~1:10pm EDT.   The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).    [For his TVIS workout, Yurchikhin used the TVIS SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices) tailored for him.  The protective SPDs are required for new crewmembers for the first seven TVIS sessions for safety.  This was Fyodor’s 7th session.]   No CEO photo targets uplinked for today.  