06-23-2009June 23, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/23/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below   Frank DeWinne started the next part (3rd of 5) of the periodic acoustic measurement protocol by recording post-sleep data of the crew-worn acoustic dosimeters, later deploying the dosimeters statically (Part 4), one at the SM (Service Module) Central Post, one in Node-2 and the third in an empty rack bay in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), away from air flow, taking photographs of the locations.  Afterwards (~5:10pm EDT), DeWinne will record the data taken by the three static dosimeters during the day (Part 5).   [Acoustic data must be taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.]    Bob Thirsk performed the periodic WRS (Water Recovery System) sample analysis in the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.  After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to SSC-7 (Station Support Computer 7) via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged for calldown.   [The current procedure is a work-around for TOCA’s failed catalyst.]   To prepare for today’s FSS (Fluid Systems Servicer) operations in the Lab, FE-1 Barratt cleared affected areas in the Lab by relocating equipment to temporary stowage, including the File Server, MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), Printer and SSC (Space Station Computer) laptops as needed.    [Cables were to be kept long enough to avoid power or data disconnects.]   Later, Koichi Wakata used the FSS (Fluid Servicing System) to refill ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) loops in the Lab, JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) with fresh coolant, including reconfiguring the JPM TCA-L (Thermal Control Assembly for LTL) Gas Trap’s manual valves for turning the gas trap heaters on (and later off again).  This work was deferred last week.    [This involved priming (filling) the FSS jumpers first, then charging the LTL & MTL PPA (Low Temperature Loop & Moderate Temperature Loop Pump Package Assembly) accumulators as well as the spare Gas Trap in the Lab.  Next, the FSS was relocated to the JPM for similarly adding coolant to the JPM MTL & LTL loops and Gas Traps, then safing the FSS for overnight.]    In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Frank DeWinne worked on the FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory), installing the Optical Target for the upcoming Optical Test 4, part of FSL commissioning.   CDR Padalka had 30 min reserved for relocating the JAXA-3DPC (Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency-3D Photon Crystals) crystal growth experiment.   FE-1 Barratt conducted another test session of the SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment) payload in the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), controlled by its A31p with SPICE microdrives.    [Mike exchanged burner tubes, set up the still camera, exchanged the gas bottle with new fuel, performed ignition to start the flame test, adjusted to the smoke point and took photos.  After the tests, Mike was to close out the session, exchange video tape & microdrive and power down the MSG.  SPICE determines the point at which gas-jet flames (similar to a butane-lighter flame) begin to emit soot (dark carbonaceous particulate formed inside the flame) in microgravity.  Studying a soot emitting flame is important in understanding the ability of fires to spread and in control of soot in practical combustion systems in space.]   FE-4 Thirsk performed preventive maintenance in the Node-1, cleaning the aft IMV (Intermodular Ventilation) fan inlet (after the ground temporarily disabled the Node’s SD/Smoke Detector to prevent false alarms).   FE-3 Romanenko completed IFM (in-flight maintenance) on the Russian segment (RS)’s electrical power system (SZP), removing and replacing the #5 unit of the eight 800A batteries in the Service Module (SM).   Gennady worked in the Soyuz TMA-14 spacecraft, continuing preparations for replacing the cooler/dehumidifier assembly.   The CDR & FE-3 had ~4.5 hrs between them for stowing discarded equipment and trash on the 33P cargo vehicle-turned-trash can.   With the IRED (Interim Resistive Exercise Device) having been replaced by the ARED (Advanced RED), Bob Thirsk detensioned the device’s cable by removing the preload on it and stretching the Flexpacks in preparation for long-term stowage.   Later, Bob performed the regular USOS hatch seal inspection, using the vacuum cleaner/brush plus other tools on the hatches at Node-1 Forward, Aft & Starboard, Lab Aft & Forward, Node-2 Aft, Starboard & Port, Airlock, Columbus, Kibo JPM Zenith & Starboard, and Kibo JLP Nadir in support of periodic ACS (Atmospheric Control System) maintenance.   Roman completed his first radiation data monitoring & logging session for flow & dose power data with the RBO-3-2 MATRYOSHKA-R radiation payload and its LULIN-5 electronics box.    [Data were downloaded, accumulated readings were recorded on a log sheet for subsequent downlink to TsUP/Moscow via the BSR-TM payload data channel, and the memory storage card was replaced].   The CDR conducted the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways and installed an IP-1 flow indicator in the DC1-to-Progress 33P hatch.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Compartment)–PrK–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, FGB PGO–FGB GA, FGB GA–Node-1.]   In the Lab, Frank DeWinne reconfigured the Lab THC CCAA (Temperature & Humidity Control Common Cabin Air Assembly) air conditioner, closing the portside (P6) MFCV (Manual Flow Control Valve)  and opening the starboard (S6) MFCV, to support swapping the CCAA from its portside channel to the alternate system on the starboard side of the Lab, then switching the ITCS LTL (Internal Thermal Control System/Low Temperature Loop) accordingly, i.e., from port to starboard.    [The CCAA is a network of ducting that draws in the air through filters, delivers it for conditioning, and returns it to the modules.  The swap-over between the CCAA channels is generally done by the ground once a month, with crew support, to dry out the heat exchanger of the deactivated side.  MCC-H commands the required systems configurations for the dryout via S-band.]   In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), DeWinne closed off the latest ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) session.   [Frank set up & activated the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop, prepared the ICV Cardiopres unit and its connection to the EPM CBPD (Continuous Blood Pressure Device) main unit, then copied the ICV CBPD data on the CDL (Cardiolab) Holter Arterial BP (Blood Pressure) PCMCIA memory card to the HRF (Human Research Facility) PC.  The Cardiopres was then disconnected, the hardware powered down and the EPM laptop turned off (remaining connected until the next EPM activity).]   Padalka set up the power packs for the BAR instruments “Kelvin-Video” and TTM-2 for charging for another operational run of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload.  Charging will be terminated tomorrow, and data taking will be continued in a second session.    [Objective of EXPERT is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  The payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A) and a heat-loss anemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]   Roman uninstalled the docking mechanism (StM, Stykovochnovo mekhanizma) between the Progress M-02M/33P cargo ship and the DC1.   [The StM is the "classic" probe-and-cone type, consisting of an active docking assembly (ASA) with a probe (SSh), which fits into the cone (SK) on the passive docking assembly (PSA) for initial soft dock and subsequent retraction to hard dock.  The ASA is mounted on the Progress' GrO, while the PSA sits on the docking ports of the SM, FGB and DC1.]   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).   [On the CEVIS, the actual loads remain slightly lower than the commanded loads, but this was expected.  A manual correction of the pertinent calibration coefficient via the control panel touch screen will be done at a later time when the new value has been determined.]    Later, DeWinne transferred the exercise data file to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).   FE-4, CDR & FE-3 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Bob at ~8:10am, Gennady at ~12:15pm, Roman at ~1:00pm EDT.   Tonight between 5:36pm-7:27pm EDT, TsUP-Moscow is scheduled to conduct a single-burn test reboost of the ISS with Progress 33P.    CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Teide Volcano, Canary Is., Spain (at 3,718m above sea level and about 7,500m above the ocean floor, this is the highest point on both Spain and the Atlantic Ocean.  This volcano occupies most of the triangular island of Tenerife in the Canary Islands. Detailed images-looking just right of track to show geological layers in the interior walls of the crater were requested.  The volcano may have been observed erupting by Christopher Columbus), and Johannesburg, South Africa (Johannesburg is the largest city in South Africa and is one of Africa's only two global cities.  Overlapping, nadir-viewing frames of the city were requested; ISS orbit track (Figure 3) will provide a useful rural-urban-rural transect across the city center).   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  