
NanoRacks-Remove Debris (RemDeb): The RemDeb satellite was deployed nominally from the ISS.  NanoRacks-Remove Debris demonstrates an approach to reducing the risks presented by space debris or “space junk”. Collisions in space may have serious consequences, but research has shown that removing the largest debris significantly reduces the chance of collisions. NanoRacks-Remove Debris uses a 3D camera to map location and speed of debris and then deploys a net to capture and de-orbit simulated debris that is up to 1 meter in diameter. Ground experts will then analyze video of the demonstration runs.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA): The crew performed troubleshooting on the SUBSA experiment to remove pieces of the broken sample ampoule. It was determined pieces of the ampoule remain lodged inside the chamber bore and is not possible to fully clean the chamber bore. Therefore, there will not be any future planned troubleshooting. The objective of the SUBSA investigation is to advance understanding of the processes involved in semiconductor crystal growth. It offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C. Samples are contained in transparent quartz or ceramic ampoules with high definition video imaging available in real-time along with remote commanding of thermal control parameters. 
At Home in Space: The crew completed a questionnaire for the At Home in Space investigation. This Canadian Space Agency investigation assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the spacecraft by creating a home in space. At Home in Space also uses questionnaires to investigate individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth.
Public Affairs Opportunity (PAO):  This afternoon the entire crew participated in an event for the 50th anniversary of the U.N. Conference on Exploration and the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space.  Ground participants in this conference in Vienna, Austria will include Dr. Jim Green, NASA Chief Scientist, and former NASA astronaut Scott Kelly. 
Acoustic Monitor Noise Survey: The ISS is a noisy place. To better characterize changes to the acoustic environment of ISS, the crew utilized a Sound Level Meter (SLM) and acoustic dosimeters to measure the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS.
On-Board Training (OBT) 54 Soyuz (54S) Emergency Egress Drill:  All three 54S crewmembers participated in a training session today where they reviewed and practiced procedures that would be performed in the event of an emergency that required the crew to egress ISS and execute an emergency descent. This drill is scheduled after the crew has been onboard for 12 to 14 weeks and every 2.5 months thereafter.
Eye Exams: This afternoon the 54S crew performed routine Fundoscope eye exams.  Prior to the exam, the crewmember’s eyes were dilated allowing another crewmember to utilize the Fundoscope to capture images of both eyes.  Eye exams are routinely performed onboard the ISS to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  After deployment of the RemDeb satellite, ground Robotics Specialists (ROBO) preformed a checkout of the NanoRacks Kaber Microsat Deployer prior to returning it to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Slide Table.  ROBO is currently performing a Mobile Transporter (MT) translation from Worksite (WS)7 to WS4 and will stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) later this evening prior to a SSRMS walkoff onto Node 2(N2). 
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Biochemical urine test
Urine biochemical analysis
URISYS Hardware Stowage
Max Cycle Ergometer w/ Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Set Up
ALGOMETRIA. Measurement Prep & Ops in the strain-gauge and thermal algometry modes
RADIOSKAF. Preparation for tests, activation of transceiver Kenwood D700 instead of D710 and relay mode installation.
Crew Handover
RADIOSKAF. Nano Satellite Tanyusha-ЮЗГУ-3 activation for relay mode operation.
RADIOSKAF. Photo and Video Recording
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Power Up
FAZOPEREKHOD. Experiment Setup and Start Ops.
KABER DEPLOY IMAGERY SETUP
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment Setup.
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS
Combustion Integrated Rack Hardware Return
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – ESA Nutritional Assessment
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment Ops on БД-2 (individual strategy test).
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) On Board Training (OBT)
At Home In Space Questionnaire
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Closeout Ops.
ISS Crew Orientation
CALCIUM.  Running Experiment Session 5
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Hygiene Procedures
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Stow
KABER DEPLOY PHOTO
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules Troubleshooting
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
MERLIN EXPRESS Rack Relocation
FAZOPEREKHOD. Closeout Ops.
JEM TEPC REMOVAL
Charge of external batteries SM-AGAT-U55 (2 pcs.) of Soyuz 738 equipment  – Initiate charging
RADIOSKAF. Deactivation of satellite “Tanyusha-ЮЗГУ-3 and deactivation of antenna cable
MERLIN 3 Desiccant Insert
Endoscope PCE-VE 330 handing over to RS
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
ALGOMETRIA. Measurements in tenso-algometry mode
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Using an Acoustic Monitor to take acoustic survey of ISS.
Emergency egress drill
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations
СОЖ maintenance
Acoustic Dosimeter Operations – Setup Dosimeter for Data Transfer
Vacuum cleaning of vents grille of FGB interior (panels 201, 301, 401).
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Conclude
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
Cygnus Cargo Operations Conference
AMS Hard Drive Change
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Prep
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Setup
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Eye Exam – Fundoscope
SM-AGAT-U55 external battery charge (2 pcs.) from Soyuz 738 – charge end
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Tear Down and Stow
ALGOMETRIA. Conducting measurements in tenso- and thermo-algometry mode. Closeout Ops
Monitoring shutter closure on windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14 SM. Note 9

Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


RemDeb Deploy
MT Translation WS7 to WS4
SPDM Stow
SSRMS Double Walkoff to N2
FMS coarse characterization 

