06-26-2010June 26, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/26/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew off-duty day.    >>>Solar Beta angle reached its high point last night and is coming down now.  With ISS in constant sunlight, there are great naked-eye visibility opportunities at local nighttime (for viewing times check http://spaceflight.nasa.gov/realdata/sightings/index.html)!<<<   CDR Skvortsov completed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   FE-5 Yurchikhin terminated his first experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]   At wake-up, Doug Wheelock continued his first session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken during the day.]   Later in  the day, Wheels set up the equipment for his first 24-hour urine collections of the Nutrition/Repository/Pro K generic protocol, beginning tomorrow.      [Based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV (International Procedures Viewer) capabilities, the generic blood & urine procedures were created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]   The six station residents performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   As part of the uborka house cleaning, the Russian crewmembers conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).   FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson once again serviced the CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2) experiment in the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), now for the new SPU (Sample Processing Unit) #10, installed yesterday.    [Task steps included inspecting, activating & checking the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) for acceptable humidity & temperature levels in the sample chamber, followed by opening the water valve, then closing it and opening the vent valve to initiate the 3rd of 4 vacuum draws on the sample chamber.  Vacuum vent #4 is to be started later in the day and let run overnight, after again letting the water line vent into the work volume for a while.]   After setting up the Lab RWS (Robotic Workstation) for the video operation during the Soyuz 23S relocation on Monday, FE-6 Walker, CDR Skvortsov & FE-5 Yurchikhin configured and tested the RS (Russian Segment) video “scheme” which utilizes TV conversion on a laptop to U.S. NTSC format and Ku-band of the RS video signal from the SONY HDV camera via MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoder from FGB & SM, in order to downlink “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.  The test was conducted from 8:15am-10:00am EDT.    [The associated conversion laptop, an A31p (SSC-1) in the FGB, on which Alexander will monitor the video stream during the relocation, was later shut down by the FE-6.]   At ~9:00am, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   Mikhail Kornienko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Shannon also filled out her first weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).  (Deferred from 6/24).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).    [For his TVIS workout, Yurchikhin used the TVIS SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices) tailored for him.  The protective SPDs are required for new crewmembers for the first seven TVIS sessions for safety.  This was Fyodor’s 6th session.]   CDR, FE-2 & FE-6 were scheduled for their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Alexander at ~4:45am, Tracy at ~5:20am & later at ~4:45pm, Shannon at ~3:30pm EDT.  Ku Band Outage:  In the current high Beta angle environment (left side of orbit track always in darkness), the backside of the Ku antenna gets too cold if not kept turned sunward until temperatures return to normal.  While so “parked”, Ku band is lost.  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Four -- Week 3)  2-D NANO Template (JAXA):    The sample was stowed in MELFI to extend sample life on 6/10.  The experiment is planned to start on 7/9.   3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    This ISS backup radiation monitoring system remains non-operational.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.   BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    Returned with 19A.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    “Thanks to Doug for changing out the heptane MDCA Fuel Reservoir.  This fuel will be used on our next day of test point operations.  On 6/16, four test points from the science matrix were performed with methanol fuel at a 0.7 atm chamber environment of 24% O2, 20% CO2, and 56% N2:  Test #1 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm, with no support fiber.  There was no sparkling and the droplet burned for a long time (going toward diffusive extinction).  The droplet drifted away from the FOV before extinction, hit the fiber and split into two burning drops.  Test #2 - Droplet diameter of 3 mm, with no support fiber. This was a successful ignition with diffusive extinction.  Test #3 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm, with support fiber and translation.  Sparkling was observed during the burning and the droplet oscillated on the fiber.  The droplet burst prior to extinction. There could have been a small bubble in the droplet.  Test #4 - Droplet diameter of 3 mm, with support fiber and no translation. Some sparkling was observed and the droplet burst prior to extinction.  Sparkling and burst droplets are believed to be caused by the fuel droplet being charged with static electricity.  On 6/21, four test points from the science matrix were performed with methanol fuel at a 0.7 atm chamber environment of 23% O2, 25% CO2, and 52% N2.”  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    The first SPU was completed on 6/21, preliminary data shows the heat soak was successful.  The second CSLM-2 Sample Processing Unit (SPU) completed the 4 vacuum vent cycles on 6/23.  Tracy then started the second SPU 34 hour (122,400 second) heat soak.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    The active DOSTEL detectors continue to acquire science data.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):    No report.   EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   Photo session was performed on 6/14.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    Performed on 5/1 as VolSci.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  Ferulate:    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):    “Operations were started on the 20mm CVB module on 6/18 and operated for 106.7 hours.  It was realized that the bubble in the field of view of the 20mm module was smaller than the size it was on earth, indicating that a secondary bubble existed in the unseen portion of the module.  An attempt was made to grow the bubble by heating the module at its heater end and cooling its cooler end.  However, this failed to grow the bubble size.  After trying a few alternate approaches, it became evident that it will be difficult to grow the bubble to its full size.  At this point, a decision was made to perform a subset of the science runs with the bubble size we had.  Approximately 50 percent of the original test matrix has been completed before the FIR was shut down. Some unique data were collected during this run, and even though this is not the experiment we originally intended to perform, the results have been very exciting.  A “spiking” of the pressure reading was observed at high heater settings.  This had never been observed before on ground or with the 30mm module.  After initial investigation it is hypothesized that that super-heated liquid near to the heater periodically boils causing the spikes.  We now plan on moving to the 40mm module.  If the 40mm module (like the 30mm module) can be commanded to have a fully developed bubble we will run the planned test matrix. We will also develop additional procedures to grow the bubble in the 20mm and 40mm modules.”   Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):    2nd Hair sampling for FE-6 was performed on 5/13.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    The image highlights for next week are:  1) sites around Australia and New Zealand;  2) parts of the Gulf of Mexico, especially the marshes and barrier islands of Mississippi and Alabama.  1220 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    No report.   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    “Tracy, thank you for performing the KUBIK-3 thermal eBox replacement.  This is a promising first step.  Detailed KUBIK-3 check-out will resume soon.”  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    Performed the 10th run successfully (by ground commanding) on 4/17-4/18.  Matryoshka-2:    Acquiring science data.  Marangoni UVP:    3rd and 4th run were performed on 6/21-23.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE7 is operating nominally.  PECB was powered off on 6/18 and was powered up on 6/21 to prevent overheating in this high beta angle period.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.   MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   No report.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.   NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADIAK:    Experiment has to be postponed due to KUBIK-3 anomaly.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):   Dosimeter set-up performed on FD12 of ULF4.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    “Wheels, thank you for performing your PASSAGES session today.  The science team is looking forward to getting the data.”  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    Sample launched by 36P; was recovered by 21S.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “Tracy, Wheels and Shannon, thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test!  The data is downlinked once a month.  We look forward to the new data from Wheels and Shannon and from Tracy’s sleep shift session.”   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    A CGSE/CBEF CO2 leak check has been completed.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Tracy, thank you for completing the extended Sleep logging session last week.  We plan to schedule your next week of Sleep logs, alongside Shannon's and Wheels', to start in early July.”  SMILES (JAXA):    SLOC (submillimeter local oscillator controller) troubleshooting is underway.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    Next Sun observation window is predicted to start on 7/8.   SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.   Space-DRUMS:    No report.    SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Thank you, Tracy, for performing your THERMOLAB session.  The ground teams have confirmed that the data look good.”  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):     No report.   VO2max (NASA):    “Tracy, thanks for your hard work on the VO2max experiment.  You are really good with the calibrations!  We are pleased with the data we've gathered so far and appreciate your diligence and patience in working with us.  We look forward to having you help us out when it’s time for Wheels and Shannon.”  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   Through 6/22, the ground has received a total of 512 frames of E-24 CEO imagery for review and cataloging.   “No frames were acquired this week with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists.  Please feel free to provide us feedback on anything we can do to help you locate and acquire our targets.  This past weekend we published your awesome view of a ribbon-like display of the Aurora Australis on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website.  This photo, acquired on 5/29 while over the southern Indian Ocean, is one of the most striking displays of this beautiful phenomenon we have seen in years.  Thanks for your vigilance in documenting these transient and dynamic displays.  We will continue to request more of such imagery whenever we feel conditions warrant it.”  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):  Over the next week or so there will be fewer CEO targets in the target list.  This is due to the crew’s daylight/awake orbits paralleling the terminator.  This phenomenon occurs at least twice a year, sometimes more – during the high-Beta angle period.  During this time the sun elevations for nadir targets will be too low to meet requirements for many, but not all, of the targets.  The crew sees darkness if they look to the left of the orbit tracks; to the right they see sunlight. This typically lasts for about a week before sun angles improve for CEO nadir targets.  For the station, high Beta also means critically increased solar thermal input.  Epsilon Aurigae Eclipse Observation:   ISS is participating in a significant astronomical observation program just getting underway, followed by thousands of amateur & professional astronomers: the Epsilon Aurigae Eclipse.   A specific star in the Constellation Auriga (Charioteer) called Epsilon Aurigae undergoes an eclipse (being occulted) every 27.1 years.  This has puzzled astronomers for nearly 200 years.  The eclipse lasts nearly two years which, with the 27.1 year period, means the eclipsing body must be gigantic.  There may be a temporary brightening at mid-eclipse.  There have been no satisfactory explanations to date for this.  Is it a giant cloud of gas with a doughnut-like hole, permitting the star to brighten during mid-eclipse?  The Sun’s proximity to Epsilon Aurigae, as seen from the ground, prevents observations by ground-based astronomers during mid-eclipse, but astronauts on the ISS, having a different aspect angle, can observe and note changes in relative brightness, as suggested by the AAVSO (American Association of Variable Star Observers) following a talk by NASA-Astronaut John Grunsfeld.  The method used by the crew is to compare the brightness of Epsilon Aurigae weekly with three other nearby stars of known & unchanging brightness.   CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Epsilon Aurigae & Comet NcNaught (looking left of track, above the limb of the Earth, to observe the brightness of this star as compared to other stars in the Auriga constellation, as described above.  Because of the current seasonal lighting conditions, during the northern portion of each of ISS orbits, the crew had about a 40-minute window today to view the star.  The GMT time uplinked was at the mid-way point for viewing during this one window.  Also uplinked: a table with all opportunities for the day and the entire window for seeing the star and comet), and Polar Mesospheric Clouds/PMCs (several viewing opportunities uplinked).  