
Direct Current To Direct Current (DDCU) LA1A Trip: Last Thursday, DDCU LA1A tripped off due to a ~40 amp overcurrent. Parallel DDCU LA4A was already off for Battery 4A conditioning. A Failure Investigation Team (FIT) recommended the crew perform troubleshooting steps including rotation of the rack and visual inspection of the DDCUs, wire harnesses, and the Secondary Power Distribution Assembly (SPDA).  The crew also performed multimeter measurements on both DDCU outputs on the face of the DDCU as well as on the output cable leading to downstream wiring for indications of a fault. Following the troubleshooting, another FIT was held and the recommendation was to R&R DDCU LA1A which the crew completed this morning. Both DDCUs and Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)2 shell heaters were powered on and are operating nominally.  CEVIS has been reinstalled.  Ground teams have recovered most affected loads with a few remaining items to be repowered tonight.
 
Multi-Omics Operations:  The crew supported the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Multi-Omics investigation by collecting samples and inserting them in the Minus Eighty-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system.
 
NeuroMapping Operations: The crew set up the hardware and performed this experiment, including testing in both a “strapped in” and ”free floating” body configuration. The investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess changes that occur after spending an extended period on the ISS.
 
Ammonia Measurement Kit Chip Measurement System (CMS) Battery Changeout: The CMS draws a small amount of current even while inactive, therefore the batteries must be changed periodically to ensure the CMS will activate in an emergency. During this procedure the crew verified that the CMS would have activated using the installed batteries near end-of-life, then replaced them.
 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Monthly Maintenance: The crew completed this regularly scheduled maintenance to inspect the bungee shackle key mount witness marks, Y-Axis isolators, two boot snubbers, and all four snubber arms for signs of free play.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Morning Inspection, Laptop RS1(2) Reboot Morning Inspection, RSS1,2 Reboot / r/g 1460
SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test
MRM2 comm config to support the P/L Ops
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Hardware Setup and Configuration r/g 2578
JEMAL Depress and Vent
COSMOCARD. Preparing for and Starting 24-hr ECG Recording / r/g 2579
Multi Omics (MO) Sample Collection
RELAKSATSIYA Hardware Setup r/g 2575
Multi Omics (MO) Sample Insertion into MELFI
Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Run r/g 2578
Multi Omics (MO) Equipment Stowage
Multi Omics (MO) Hardware Setup
RELAKSATSIYA. Parameter Settings Adjustment r/g 2575
Monthly Inspection of T2 Treadmill System
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
URAGAN. Observation and photography using Photo Equipment / r/g 2581
RELAKSATSIYA. Observation r/g 2575
PHS Evaluation Setup
RELAKSATSIYA. Closeout Ops and Hardware Removal r/g 2575
Periodic Health Status (PHS), Subject
Periodic Health Status (PHS) – CMO
Periodic Health Status (PHS) Data Entry and Hardware Stowage
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Copy and Downlink Data / r/g 2578
DUBRAVA. Observation and photography using VSS / r/g 2580
JEMAL Verifying depressurization complete
JEM Airlock Depressurization and Vent Confirmation
Water Recovery System (WRS): waste tank offload – init
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV r/g 2590
Progress 432 (Aft) Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 1812, 1832
Emergency Operations (EMER)  Chip Measurement System (CMS) Battery Changeout
СОЖ Maintenance
HMS Defibrillator Inspection
Water Recovery System (WRS): waste tank offload – term
WRS – recycle tank fill from EDV
Progress 431 (DC1) Stowage and IMS Ops / r/g 2435, 2512, 2584
Dragon Prepack
NeuroMapping (NMAP) Test Ops
Countermeasures System (CMS) Sprint Exercise Optional
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
IMS Delta File Prep
URISYS Hardware Setup  r/g 2583
RELAKSATSIYA. Charging battery for Relaksatstiya experiment (initiate) / r/g 0167
SPLANH. Diet Restrictions Reminder / r/g 2576

 
Completed Task List Items

iPAD cert update [Active]

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal ground commanding

 
