
SpaceX-28 (SpX-28) Undock and Return: SpX-28 Cargo Dragon successfully undocked from the ISS on this morning at 11:25 AM CDT. The deorbit burn is scheduled to occur tomorrow morning at approximately 8:42 AM CDT. Dragon is targeted to splash down in the Gulf of Mexico near Jacksonville, FL at approximately 9:30 AM CDT on Friday, June 30th. SpX-28 is returning approximately 3,600 pounds of cargo and payloads to the ground, concluding its 24-day mission.
Payloads:
Double Cold Bag (DCB): Frozen and ambient science samples were packed into DCBs to prepare them for return on SpX-28. The DCB is a passive resource that provides specific temperature needs for scientific samples and other temperature-sensitive payload items. These options are available to support ISS science during launch and return.
ElectroMagnetic Levitator (EML) – Both argon valves were opened, and the helium valve was closed in support of upcoming science activities. EML is a multi-user facility that provides containerless melting and solidification of electrically conductive, spherical samples under ultra-high vacuum and/or high purity gas environments. Heating and positioning of the sample are achieved by electromagnetic fields generated by a coil system. The EML supports research in the field of meta-stable states and phases, as well as in the field of measurement of highly accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys in the stable and undercooled state.
Moderate Temperature Protein Crystal Growth (MTPCG): Following the completion of the crystallization period, the two MTPCG science boxes and the thermal insulation container were assembled for return on SpX-28. JAXA’s MTPCG investigation is designed to grow high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. The crystals are returned to Earth to determine protein structures in detail, which are used to develop pharmaceutical drugs. The protein samples are launched to the ISS by a cargo resupply vehicle and crystallized at 20°C using the counter-diffusion method.
Plant Habitat-03B: The results of the water coliform test were evaluated following the required two-day waiting period. This is part of the setup and preparation for the science activities scheduled to begin in the next few weeks. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight: a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food, as well as air and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Systems:
Hardware Audits and Stowage Activities: As part of stowage maintenance, the crew performed several hardware audits and stowage activities. The crew audited AC Dry Vacuum Cleaner consumables, including vacuum debris bags, HEPA filters, and micro filters, and took pictures of the vacuums. The SpaceX return staging bags and NASA stowage items behind the FGB panel were also audited, and JEM stowage consolidation was performed. Lastly, the crew checked deployed and temp stowed items, disposed of common trash, and relocated items as needed for daily operations.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis. The crew also changed out the Waste Water Bag (WWB).
Completed Task List Activities:

WHC KTO Replace [GMT 179]

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

CETA Light Activation/Deactivation
SDMS Activation
Dragon Undock Operations
Hi P O2 Supply Pressure Caution Reconfiguration
JEM Airlock and ACDU-RC Activation
JEM Airlock VB-RC Activation
JEM Airlock Depressurization and vent

