06-25-2009June 25, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/25/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Before breakfast & first exercise, all crewmembers took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.  Afterwards, the CDR closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware.     [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]   CDR Padalka conducted a session with the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment after setting up the workplace and equipment.  FE-3 Romanenko provided assistance.  It was Gennady’s second MBI-15 run.  Afterwards, the Pilot-M & Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled and stowed away.     [MBI-15 requires a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO & RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.]   Early in the morning, FE-1 Barratt removed the alignment guides on the FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility) in the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab to allow PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) activation for FCF operations requiring a microgravity environment.  Near the end of the workday, the guides were re-installed to lock down the PaRIS.   FE-5 DeWinne had several hours for gathering US trash and stowing it on Progress 33P, later joined by Padalka & Romanenko.   FE-1 Barratt & FE-2 Wakata conducted a session with the HMS (Health Maintenance System) biomedical BRASLET-M/Anketa ("bracelet/questionnaire") test procedure with ultrasound and echocardiographic electrodes, documented with still & video imagery.  Mike was the operator, Koichi the subject.  Afterwards, the equipment was stowed away.     [Prior to the session, the protocol had called for no BRASLET cuff within 24 hrs, no caffeine within 12 hrs, no heavy meals within 4 hrs, no food or exercise at all within 2 hrs, and no liquids within 30 min.   Background:  BRASLET (Validation of On-Orbit Methodology for the Assessment of Cardiac Function and Changes in the Circulating Volume Using Ultrasound and BRASLET-M Occlusion Cuffs) is SDTO 17011, sponsored by NASA and FSA/IBMP (Russian Federal Space Agency/Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP, Dr. Valery Bogomolov).  BRASLET is testing the performance of occlusion cuffs in modifying fluid shifts that occur early during physiological transition into the space environment.  Understanding the effects of this countermeasure on cardiovascular function will be useful for both medical operations and future research.  The goal of this investigation is to establish a valid ultrasound methodology for assessing a number of aspects of central and peripheral hemodynamics and cardiovascular function, specifically in rapid changes in intravascular circulating volume.  The SDTO uses BRASLET-M occlusion cuffs, which are a Russian-made operational countermeasure already pre-calibrated and available onboard for each ISS crewmember.  BRASLET uses multiple modes of ultrasound imaging and measurements, in combination with short-term application of BRASLET-M occlusive cuffs and cardiopulmonary maneuvers (Valsalva, Mueller) to demonstrate and to evaluate the degree of changes in the circulating volume on orbit.  This is accomplished by performing echocardiographic examinations in multiple modes (including Tissue Doppler mode), ultrasound measurements of lower extremity venous and arterial vascular responses to BRASLET-M device under nominal conditions and also during cardiopulmonary Mueller and Valsalva maneuvers.  Identical measurements are being repeated without BRASLET-M, with BRASLET-M applied, and immediately after releasing the occlusion device.]    FE-4 Thirsk had 2 hrs reserved for conducting thermal tests on work lights, i.e. taking temperature measurements.   Today it was Koichi Wakata’s turn to complete the regular monthly session (his second) with the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer)’s acuity in a number of critical health areas.     [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]   Mike Barratt serviced the EHS CDM (Environmental Health System - Carbon Dioxide Monitor) unit #1002, downloading all data stored in the CDM to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), and checking the internal clock time, required for data correlation.   Frank DeWinne performed hard drive maintenance on SSCs (Station Support Computers) 2, 3, 6 & 9.   At ~2:35pm EDT, Romanenko conducted his second data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (Interactions) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.    [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]    DeWinne performed the regular 30-day inspection of the AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack.     [The AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient.  It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.  AEDs are generally either held by trained personnel who will attend events or are public access units which can be found in places including corporate and government offices, shopping centers, airports, restaurants, casinos, hotels, sports stadiums, schools and universities, community centers, fitness centers, health clubs and any other location where people may congregate.]   Frank also took situational photography of the starboard CQ (Crew Quarters) in Node-2.   Bob Thirsk completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Collapsible Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week.      The FE-3 did the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   Roman also conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), DeWinne also disconnected the EPM (European Physiology Module) Laptop from its own power assembly and cables, leaving the Ethernet connection in place as well as the EPM laptop.   The FE-5 worked on the TVIS treadmill, removing the SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices).   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).   [On the CEVIS, the actual loads remain slightly lower than the commanded loads, but this was expected.  A manual correction of the pertinent calibration coefficient via the control panel touch screen will be done at a later time when the new value has been determined.]    Later, Frank transferred the exercise data file to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).   At ~4:20am EDT, Padalka, Barratt, Wakata, Thirsk & DeWinne joined in a tagup with the Japanese Flight Control Team at SSIPC/Tsukuba via S-band/audio.   [This conference is scheduled once every week, between the ISS crewmembers and SSIPC.]   At ~7:25am, Padalka & DeWinne conducted a tagup with the ESA staff at Col-CC (Columbus Control Center) at Oberpfaffenhofen/Germany.   [This conference is scheduled once every week, between ISS crewmembers and Col-CC via S/G2 (Space-to-Ground 2) audio.]   During three RGS (Russian Ground Site) comm passes, TsUP-Moscow performed fuel transfer from the Progress 33P Refueling System to the FGB high-pressure tankage.  After the refueling, SM (Service Module) attitude thrusters were connected to the FGB high-pressure tank.  Soyuz KhSA-SA Cooler/Dehumidifier Fan Update:   Yesterday’s planned replacement of the apparently faulty fan in the Soyuz 18S Descent Module with a new unit proved to be not necessary.   TsUP specialists determined that Monday’s jumper bypass configuration by Padalka successfully recovered functionality of the air conditioner fan.   CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Nice, France (this leading resort on the French Riviera has a population of over 1 million and is located on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea in southeastern France.  ISS approach was from the W-NW with clear weather expected over southern France.  The crew had a nadir pass with numerous cities on the coast), Tenoumer Impact Crater, Mauritania (this tiny, 1.9km-diameter, impact is located in the desert interior of northern Mauritania.  Despite its small size, the crater is geologically fresh [just over 20,000 years old] and relatively unweathered in its desert setting.  CEO researchers are seeking detailed, near-nadir views of this feature.  ISS had a mid-morning track with fair weather anticipated), Johannesburg, South Africa (ISS had a mid-morning near-nadir pass over South Africa’s largest city of 4 million plus.  Approach was from the NW in clear weather.  This sprawling urban area offers a complex, diverse appearance), Washington, D.C. (our nation’s capital is located inland from the northwestern estuaries of Chesapeake Bay.  This fair-weather pass was in mid morning with the city just right of track.  Looking for the city at the head of the large Potomac River estuary), San Francisco, California (this landmark American city was located just right of track as ISS entered California’s Central Valley from the NW.  The crew had clear weather in mid-afternoon light), Los Angeles, California (on this pass, the immense urban area of Los Angeles lied right of track.  With the possible presence of smog, the crew otherwise should have had clear, mid-afternoon viewing conditions of the city).    CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  