
Roll Out Solar Array (ROSA): On Sunday, three attempts to retract ROSA solar array were unsuccessful.  Imagery showed the array was not lining up correctly (“telescoping”), preventing the locking of ROSA’s latches which is required for return in Dragon. Teams met and agreed to stand down on further retraction attempts due to the risk of getting stuck in an off nominal configuration with a partially retracted array. ROSA was left fully deployed following the last attempt and jettison was approved which was completed today at 4:15PM CDT to the nadir and aft of ISS. 
Seedling Growth 3: The crew completed the second of two six-day growth sessions for Seedling Growth 3 today. They removed Experiment Containers from the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS), processed the samples, and stowed them in the Biolab Thermal Control Unit. The samples from this and the previous run will be returned on SpaceX-11. This is the third part of the Seedling Growth Experiment series using the small flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana to investigate the effects of gravity on the cellular signaling mechanisms of light sensing in plants (phototropism), and to investigate cell growth and proliferation responses to light stimulation under microgravity conditions. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  Yesterday the crew collected saliva samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation and placed them in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1 year period.  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time. 
Human Research Program (HRP): A crewmember collected Flight Day 60 urine and blood samples yesterday and today for Biochem Profile and blood and air samples for Marrow.

The Biochem Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during and after spaceflight.  Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results which scientists can use in their study of the effects of spaceflight on the body.
The Marrow investigation identifies the effect of microgravity on bone marrow.  It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on blood cell production in bone marrow.

Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Test Video Recording for Russia Today TV Channel
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
URAGAN. Observation and Photography
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Collection – Subject
Reminder HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection
MO-8. Hardware setup
Reminder HRF Generic Urine Collection End
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Double Spin Collection – Subject
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Double Spin Collection – Operator
MO-8 Concluding ops
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Double Spin Configuration 1
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Double Spin Configuration 2
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
Early unstow, priority, and US cargo transfers from Progress 436 (SM Aft) and IMS Ops
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Conclude Stow
JEM Camera Robot Activation
HRF Generic Urine Collection Stow
Cargo Transfer to Dragon
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and Video Compression and Recording Unit 2 (VRU2) Cable Reconfiguration 2
Examination of bio electrical activity of heart at rest
Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Experiment Laptop Terminal (ELT) Cables Connection
Seedling Growth-3 Maintenance Work Area Preparation.
Removal of 800А (А105) battery
Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Experiment Laptop Terminal (ELT) RS485 Converter Connection
Seedling Growth-3 Maintenance Work Area Configuration.
JEM Camera Robot Deactivation
Dragon Locker Remove 2
Removal of 800А (А101) battery
Re-install 800А battery from А105 slot to А101 slot
Seedling Growth 3 TCU removal
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 System (T2) Monthly Inspection
SPHERES USB Stow
EML Gas Valves Opening
Collecting SM and FGB Air Samples Using АК-1М Sampler
Seedling Growth-3 Camcorder Setup
Seedling Growth-3 Run 2 EC Removal from EMCS Rotor B
Request to RS1 with variable
Seedling Growth-3 Sample Processing of ECs Rotor B Run 2
Seedling Growth-3 Run 2 EC Removal from EMCS Rotor A
Seedling Growth-3 EMCS Cold Stowage Bag MELFI Insertion
Seedling Growth-3 Sample Processing of ECs from Rotor A Run 2
Seedling Growth-3 Sample Processing with FixBox Rotor A Run 2
Tightening of DC1 – Progress 435 QD screw clamps
Seedling Growth-3 EMCS Reference Experiment Container Insertion
Telescience Resource Kit Laptop Setup
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Surface Sampler Kit (SSK) and Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Analysis T + 5
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
Seedling Growth 3 TCU insertion
Seedling Growth-3 Post-Sample Processing Cleanup after Run 2.
Evening Preparation Work
Habitability Narrated Task Video Setup – Subject
Seedling Growth-3 MWA Deconfigure.
Habitability Narrated Task Video End – Subject

Completed Task List Items

Columbus PK4 Hard Drive Pouch Trash [Completed GMT 176]
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training [Completed GMT 176]
Empty three Double Cold bags and prepare them for SpX-11 return [Completed GMT 176]

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

P1UPOB ETVCG troubleshooting
Seedling Growth 3 Ops

