06-28-2009June 28, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/28/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – off-duty day for CDR Gennady Padalka (Russia), FE-1 Michael Barratt (USA), FE-2 Koichi Wakata (Japan), FE-3 Roman Romanenko (Russia), FE-4 Robert Thirsk (Canada) and FE-5 Frank DeWinne (Belgium).  Ahead:  Week 5 of Increment 20.     In preparation for the undocking of Progress 33P on 6/30, Padalka & Romanenko had an hour reserved for installing the docking mechanism (StM, Stykovochnovo mekhanizma) between the DC1 (Docking Compartment 1) and the trash-laden cargo ship.   [The StM is the "classic" probe-and-cone type, consisting of an active docking assembly (ASA) with a probe (SSh), which fits into the cone (SK) on the passive docking assembly (PSA) for initial soft dock and subsequent retraction to hard dock.  The ASA is mounted on the Progress' cargo module (GrO), while the PSA sits on the docking ports of the SM, FGB and DC1]   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3), IRED interim resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).   [The slight offset between actual loads and commanded loads on the CEVIS has been corrected.  FE-4 Thirsk has completed a coefficients calibration on the CEVIS control panel which adjusted the readings.  IRED has been declared Go for nominal use and the crewmembers’ protocols have been uplinked to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).]   FE-3 Romanenko performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.    Roman also supported ground-commanded initiation, then termination, of another repress of the ISS cabin atmosphere with O2 (oxygen) from Progress 33P storage by ~18-20 mmHg.   At the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack in the Lab, Frank DeWinne hooked up the ITCS MTL (Internal Thermal Control System Moderate Temperature Loop) return jumper QD (Quick Disconnect) to the UIP (Utility Interface Panel) to provide cooling to the rack, stowing protective caps & plugs in a Ziplock bag.   Five crewmembers had their weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Frank at ~6:01am, Roman at ~9:00am, Koichi at ~10:50am, Bob at ~12:35pm, Mike at ~3:55pm EDT.   Working off the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, Gennady was to conduct a run for Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  