
Payloads
MELFI 1/2/3 Nitrogen pressure check: The crew performed a routine pressure check on the 3 MELFI units on board ISS.  These checks are performed every 6 months to make sure the expected ~9000-10000 kPa is present in the units.  The MELFIs use nitrogen as a working fluid to achieve temperature set points as cold as -95 deg C.  The Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) is a cold storage unit that maintains experiment samples at cold temperatures throughout a mission.
Multi-use Variable-g Platform (MVP-1):  Following a previous hard drive replacement several weeks ago, the team was not able to command to the unit nominally.  Today the crew exchanged another hard drive and the ground team will attempt their commanding again.  The commercially developed, owned and operated Techshot MVP includes 2 internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity. MVP is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew performed several activities in preparation for the second S6 Battery EVA currently scheduled for Wednesday, July 1. The crew setup the EVA GoPro batteries for charging and then setup the EVA GoPro cameras. They continued charging operations on the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Batteries (LLB) and also charged the Portable Oxygen Monitor (POM) batteries. A procedure review and procedure conference were also completed by the ISS crew and ground support teams.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphic (DOUG) Review: The crew performed a visual review of the EVA using the Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphic (DOUG) software. This session allows the crew to view the step-by-step sequence of a specific EVA. Entire translation paths can be highlighted and displayed for review by crew members prior to performing an EVA.
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): The crew completed Max CEVIS today which is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. The test is performed every 90 days and upon the crew’s arrival and departure from the ISS.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)9 Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued to perform HTV9 cargo transfer operations. Ground teams estimate ~3 hours remain to complete available cargo ops. 
Completed Task List Activities:

Food Consolidation

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


US to RS Audio Config/Deconfig for MRM Ops
A/L LTL Flow Init/Term for Activities in Airlock
OGA Mode Transition
Lab MCA Zero Calibration

