06-20-2010June 20, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/20/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday – Crew rest day.   Ahead: Week 3 of Increment 24   FE-3 Kornienko started out by conducting the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   At wake-up, FE-2 Tracy Caldwell-Dyson continued her current session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   Caldwell-Dyson also continued the new week-long run of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), her 4th, transferring data from her Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   The six residents performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   As part of the uborka house cleaning, the Russian crewmembers conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).   Returning to the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Tracy gathered hardware and made preparations for a CSLM SPU (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures Sample Processing Unit) exchange scheduled tomorrow.      [Preparatory steps included retrieving an MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) stowage bag, unstowing CSLM-2 SPU #4 and removing a tray with bungee cords from the MSG AL (Airlock).]    Working on MELFI-1 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 2), Tracy followed uplinked suggestions in freeing a stuck dewar tray using a wireway guide.   Alex Skvortsov completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].   The CDR also performed the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.   FE-5 Yurchikhin worked in the 23S Orbital Module (BO), installing and connecting an electronic LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and its PZU-1M ROM (read-only memory) unit from stowage, recycled from an earlier vehicle.       [This appears to be a first, since Soyuz spacecraft in the past usually arrived with an LKT installed.]    In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-6 Walker checked up to verify that the protective shutters of the science window are closed.     [This is a thermal constraint in the current high-Beta angle range.]   The three new crewmembers, Fyodor, Wheels & Shannon, again had an hour set aside each for adaptation.     [The first two weeks after their arrival, a new ISS crew will have 1 hour a day to adjust to living in space.]   As part of their mandatory CMS (Countermeasure Systems) familiarization sessions with the onboard physical exercise equipment, Shannon & Wheels observed Tracy doing her workout on the CEVIS cycle ergometer.     CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5 & FE-6 were scheduled for their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Fyodor at ~4:45am, Tracy at ~5:45am & later at ~5:15pm, Shannon at ~7:30am, Alexander at ~8:00am, Doug at ~4:25pm & at 4:45pm EDT.   FE-4, FE-5 & FE-6 were scheduled for their second PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Fyodor at ~10:00am, Wheels at ~12:30pm, Shannon at ~12:55pm.   Tracy, Misha & Sasha completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-2, FE-3), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).   Jobs listed for Skvortsov & Kornienko today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –  Another ~40-min. run of      the GFI-8      "Uragan"      (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D2X digital camera      photography with 800mm telelens, A ~30-min. photography      session for the DZZ-13      “Seiner”      ocean observation program, obtaining data on oceanic water blooms, then      copying the images to the RSK-1      laptop, and A ~30-min. session for      Russia's EKON      Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial      photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X      camera.    Conjunction Advisory:   Flight controllers have been notified of a new conjunction (Object 81875, Unknown) with a TCA (Time of Closest Approach) today at 2:38pm EDT.  This late notification conjunction is currently an unofficial “red threshold” violation.  A DAM (debris avoidance maneuver) cannot be planned in the time remaining, so the only option, if required, is to put the ISS crew in their respective Soyuz vehicles.   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  