
Umbilical Interface Assembly (UIA) Remove and Replace (R&R) Troubleshooting: Yesterday the crew investigated if loosening the 20 fasteners securing the UIA to the Airlock mounting bracket would generate any free play and allow the crew to close the gap in the Oxygen Supply lines; unfortunately, the crew indicated the tolerances were too tight and this was not possible.  Engineering specialists evaluated two plans overnight: connecting the Oxygen line as-is or installing a longer, spare supply line. In order to minimize loading on the UIA, teams determined the spare line should be installed instead of placing permanent tension on the current line. The crew has successfully replaced the old O2 supply line with the new, longer line and finished closeout and safing procedure. Ground specialists are currently conducting a 14-Hour gross O2 leak check to ensure the line was mated successfully. 
Multi-Omics: This morning the crew collected saliva samples and stowed them in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), completed a questionnaire, and ingested Fructooligosaccharide (FOS) sticks in support of JAXA’s Multi-Omics investigation. This was the 25th day of the 28-day experiment.  The objectives of Multi-Omics are to increase knowledge of the gut ecosystem of astronauts in the space environment (especially any immune dysfunction) and evaluation of the effect of FOS in their diet. 
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES): Today the crew set up and performed routine maintenance tests of the SPHERES satellites. The health of the SPHERES thrusters is assessed through a series of open and closed loop maneuvers.  High speed Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) data is recorded during thruster firings to estimate the force emitted by each thruster on each satellite. The motion of the satellites with and without additional peripherals attached to the satellites are characterized. 
Sextant Navigation: Today the crew inspected and calibrated the sextant. Following data collection, the crew recorded the results. The Sextant Navigation investigation focuses on stability and star sighting opportunities in microgravity. Astronauts onboard the ISS test a hand-held sextant that is intended for use on future Orion exploration missions. The results from this investigation can aid in the development of emergency navigation methods for future manned spacecraft. Historically, Gemini missions in 1965-66 were the first to exercise sextant sightings from a spacecraft. A sextant was built into Apollo vehicles as a navigation backup in case of lost communications. 
MagVector 3D: The crew changed the MagVector 3D samples today.  A total of 12 different samples will be processed on the ISS (1 per day).  ESA’s MagVector investigation supports a study of how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research is expected to help improve future ISS experiments and electrical experiments, and could also offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general.
Airway Monitoring: In support of ESA’s Airway Monitoring investigation, today the crew set up and powered on hardware in the US Laboratory to support a software upgrade from the ground. The ISS provides a unique environment, allowing these measurements to be taken in weightless, hypobaric and hypoxic conditions. With dust particles present in the ISS atmosphere, this investigation studies indicators of airway inflammation in crewmembers, using ultra-sensitive gas analyzers to analyze NO in exhaled air. This will help to identify potential health impacts and support maintenance of crewmember health during future human spaceflight missions, where crewmembers will have to be more self-sufficient in identifying and avoiding conditions that may result in airway inflammation. 
Lighting Effects: The crew obtained light meter readings in Crew Quarters 4 and the Columbus module today.  The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color.  The investigation aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. 
SpaceX-15 Prepack: Today the crew continued with the Dragon Prepack in order to stage equipment and bags slated for return on SpaceX-15 Dragon.  Dragon is scheduled to launch on Friday, 29 July with berthing on 2 July. 
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Multi Omics Saliva sample MELFI Insertion
Multi Omics Saliva Stow
Multi Omics Question
TORU Test with Docked Soyuz #438.
Sextant Navigation Session 1 Operations
БМП Ф1 Absorbent Cartridge Regeneration (start)
COSMOCARD. Setup and Start of 24-Hour ECG Recording
Air Samples Collection for CO Using ИПД Sensors in the SM
Air Samples Collection using [АК-1М] Samplers in the SM and FGB
EVA-SCU-UNPK 1010
EVA-SCU-RT 1010
FGB СУБК 11М156М Units Diagnostics.
Utility Interface Assembly (UIA) Oxygen Supply Hose R&R
Microscope Hardware Setup
Diagnostics of БФ-2 Filter Unit and БСШ-2 Main Bus Assembly in the FGB Power Supply System.
Airway Monitoring Kit Search
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Setup
Comm Config from MRM1
Recycle Tank Drain Initiation
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations
SEPARATION. Distillation in the Automatic Mode.
Recycle Tank Drain Termination
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill [Deferred]
SEPARATION. Distillation Closeout. Downlink the log file.
ESA Monthly Crew Conference [Deferred]
Extravehicular Activities (EVA) Umbilical Interface Assembly (UIA) Biocide Filter Install
Cygnus Cargo Operations Conference
SEPARATION. Experiment Monitoring.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Servicing and Cooling Umbilical (SCU) Check
Magvector 3D Sensor Array Sample Exchange
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Stow
СОЖ maintenance
Restore Nominal Comm Config
SPHERES Test Session Setup
Lighting Effects Light Meter Setup 1
Photo/TV (P/TV) Airway Monitoring Video Setup
Airway Monitoring Sensor Changeout
Lighting Effects Light Meter Readings
SPHERES Maintenance Run
SM Ventilation System Preventive Maintenance. Group А
Airway Monitoring Setup and Power On
EVA-SCU-UNPK 1008
EVA-SCU-PK 1008
Control ИП-1 Sensors Installation
EVA-SCU-RPK 1004
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
Lighting Effects Light Meter Stow
GREAT BEGINNINGS. Charge Batteries
SPHERES Maintenance Run Assist
Airway Monitoring Power Off
Food Acceptability Questionnaire Subject
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF1 Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Dragon Prepack
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Acoustic Monitor Data Transfer and Stow
AngieX Cancer Therapy MSG Life Science Hardware Setup
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF1 Stow
БМП Ф1 Absorbent Cartridge Regeneration

Completed Task List Activities:

None 

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Leak Check of the Hi P O2 System
EFU12 and 10 Prep for Mate
JEMRMS File uplink

