
Payloads
Materials Science Laboratory- Sample Cartridge Assembly-Gravitational Effects on Distortion in Sintering (MSL SCA-GEDS)-German: The crew performed the activities needed to exchange the processed science sample cartridge assembly (SCA) with a new SCA for run C3. Liquid phase sintering is an important means to fabricate net-shape composite materials for applications over a range of industries. The science of liquid phase sintering is about 50 years old, but practice dates from the 1400s when gold was used to bond platinum in Columbia and Ecuador. Today, it is a mainstay in a diversity of fields, such as metal cutting tools, armor piercing projectiles, automotive engine connecting rods, and self-lubricating bearings. Future applications include use of liquid phase sintering as a means to perform in-space fabrication and repair, and for example using lunar regolith to fabricate structures on the moon or using metal powder to fabricate replacement components during extraterrestrial exploration. The MSL SCA-GEDS-German experiment focuses on determining the underlying scientific principles to forecast density, size, shape, and properties for liquid phase sintered bodies over a broad range of compositions in Earth-gravity (1g) and microgravity (μg) conditions.
Capillary Driven Microfluidics: The crew performed a plate changeout in order to begin the 3rd cartridge run. Capillary-Driven Microfluidics in Space (Capillary Driven Microfluidics) examines the drawing of fluids into a tiny narrow tube in microgravity. Results may improve current mathematical models and understanding of microfluidic systems and improve fluid control in various devices. Diagnostic devices require separation of blood cells and plasma, which have different densities, and the absence of sedimentation and buoyancy-driven convection in microgravity improves the efficiency of this separation.
RED-EYE: The crew depressed the JEM airlock in preparation of the JEM slide table extension. The Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) will capture and then maneuver the REDEYE-3 satellite for deployment. The RED-EYE program develops and demonstrates technologies which increase the utility of low-cost microsatellites using the Kaber Micro Satellite Deployer attached to the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM).
Systems
S6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Today, the ISS crew continued preparing for the upcoming S6 battery upgrade EVAs by performing an equipment lock prep activity for Extravehicular Activity Mobility Units (EMUs) 3004 and 3006.  Additionally, procedure reviews and a procedure conference were also completed by the ISS crew and ground support teams.  The first of two S6 channel 1B battery EVAs is planned for June 26, 2020.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)9 Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued to perform HTV9 cargo transfer operations.  Ground teams estimate ~8 hours of cargo operations remain to complete available cargo ops.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Maintenance:  Today, the crew removed and replaced (R&R) the WHC Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter.  After replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was performed and the WHC was declared operational. During previous maintenance, crew discovered precipitates in the pre-treated urine lines downstream from the WHC Pump Separator. Prior to the R&R, the crew inspected the lines to ensure precipitates had not returned to the WHC.
Completed Task List Activities:

EVA Airlock Unstow Part 2
Radio Frequency Identification Logistics Power Cycle

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Robotics SPDM Targetless Grasp Demonstration
ATS PPL Update


Airlock LTL initiation
Parallel DDCU Reconfiguration

