
Multi-Omics: The crew checked the remaining Fructooligosaccharide (FOS) packages and stowed the Fructooligo Bag for the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Multi-Omics investigation. The Multi-Omics analysis of human microbial-metabolic cross-talk in the space ecosystem evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the gut microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system.
Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack-3 Laptop Computer (ELC) Operations: The EXPRESS Laptop Release 10 disk was removed from the EXPRESS Rack-3 Laptop and installed in the EXPRESS Rack-5 Laptop in preparation for upcoming European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) maintenance activities.
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PBRE) Hardware Stow: Following completion of 4 weeks of PBRE operations, the crew spent the majority of his day de-configuring and stowing the PBRE hardware. The PBRE was used to study the behavior of gases and liquids when they flow simultaneously through a column filled with fixed porous media. The porous media or “packing” can be made of different shapes and materials and are used widely in chemical engineering as a means to enhance the contact between two immiscible fluid phases (e.g., liquid-gas, water-oil, etc.). Packed columns can serve as reactors, scrubbers, strippers, etc. in systems where efficient interphase contact is desired, both on Earth and in space. The next operations are planned for this December. 
ISS Maneuver to Solar Attitude: Yesterday the ISS performed a CMG attitude maneuver to a slightly biased attitude that allows the Solar payload on Columbus to maintain visibility of the sun.  ISS will stay in the Solar attitude until June 27.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Run r/g 2630
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops r/g 2633
EXPRESS Rack 5 CLS Laptop Release 10 disk Insert
DUBRAVA. Observation and Photography using VSS / r/g 2634
Multi Omics (MO) Equipment Stowage
Starry Night Photos through Soyuz 720 [CA] window plane II / r/g 2628
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops r/g 2632
Countermeasures System (CMS) Sprint Exercise, Optional
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PBRE) Operations Overview
IMS tagup (S-band) / r/g 2629
URAGAN. Observation and photography using Photo Equipment / r/g 2631
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PBRE) Equipment Stowage
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Copy and Downlink Data / r/g 2630
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Hardware Teardown / r/g 2630
URAGAN. Observation and photography using Photo Equipment / r/g 2631
Progress 432 [AO] Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 1812, 1832
Cleaning vent screens on FGB interior panels 116, 316, 231, 431
IMS Delta File Prep
СОЖ Maintenance
MSG Hardware Deactivation

Completed Task List Items

iPAD cert update [Active] 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Nominal ground commanding

