
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Halo: The crew completed a test session for the SPHERES Halo investigation. For this investigation the ISS fleet of SPHERES satellites are upgraded to enable each satellite to communicate with six external objects concurrently, supporting testing of new control and remote assembly methods. Results may be used to support remote or autonomous servicing of retired, obsolete, or failed satellites that otherwise eventually become space debris.  SPHERES Halo also supports research into future assembly of space habitats including large telescopes and exploration vehicles that may be too difficult and costly to launch from Earth but could be assembled in orbit.
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  The crew collected surface and air samples at different locations and a saliva sample and placed them inside a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) in support of the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation. MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1 year period.  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time. 
Vascular Echo Ultrasound: Ultrasound scans of a crewmember’s neck, torso, heart, and back of the knee were taken today. The crewmember donned Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes and with remote guidance assistance from the ground, collected ultrasound measurements.  They donned leg cuffs for several hours and repeat the ECG and ultrasound measurements. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation examines changes in blood vessels and the heart while the crew members are in space, and again upon their return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health.
Cardiac Stem Cells: In support of the ongoing Cardiac Stem Cells investigation, the crew changed out the media in one of the BioCell Habitats in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). Cardiac Stem Cells investigates how microgravity affects stem cells and the factors that govern their activity, in order to clarify the role of stem cells in cardiac biology and tissue regeneration. This investigation also supports research into the possible acceleration of the aging process in microgravity.  
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Microbial Tracking-2 Reminder for Surface sampling
Microbial Tracking-2 Body Sample Collection
Microbial Tracking-2 Sample MELFI Retrieval Insert
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) weekly conference
Glacier #4 Sample Remove
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. HAM Radio Session with Ufa State Aviation Technical University
Group Combustion Module (GCM) Experiment Laptop Terminal 2 (ELT2)  Setup
ALGOMETRIYA. Preparation for and Conducting Pressure and Thermal Algometry Measurements.
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Activation
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Install
Microbial Tracking-2 Crew Conference
Routine Maintenance of Central Post Laptop (start of test 1)
Microbial Tracking-2 Environmental Sample Collection
Routine Maintenance of Central Post Laptop (end of test 1, conducting test 2)
Routine Maintenance of Central Post Laptop (start of test 3)
Checkout of Window #9 External Cover Drive
Start of Transfer from CWC-I to EDV #1237 (ФГБ1ПГО_1_111, 3.0 CTB for EDV 00053480R )
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
SPHERES Crew Conference
Routine Maintenance of Central Post Laptop (end of test 3, start of test 4)
Microbial Tracking-2 Sample MELFI Insert
SPHERES Test Session Setup
Termination of Transfer from CWC-I to EDV
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
R&R of Rubber Valves on ISS RS Power Panel
Vascular Echo Leg Cuffs Ultrasound Scan 1 – Subject
Cardiac Stem Cells SABL Insertion
Routine Maintenance of Central Post Laptop (end of test 4, closeout operations Public Affairs Office
ALGOMETRIYA. Pressure Algometry Measurements
Cardiac Stem Cells Media Change 1 BioCell Habitat
Filling (degassing) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV SV
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
SPHERES Halo Test Session
PK4. Chamber Gas Refill
Rodent Research Access Unit Clean
Vascular Echo Leg Cuffs Ultrasound Scan 2 – Subject
SPHERES USB Download
ALGOMETRIYA. Pressure and Thermal Algometry Measurements. Closeout Operations
Reminder Rodent Research Thermal Consideration
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Experiment Laptop Terminal (ELT) Cables Connection
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
Wanted poster for the missing Manufacturing Device prints 

Completed Task List Items

 None 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

ROSA ops
SPHERES ops

