
Payloads:
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF-L): The CBEF Vent Fan Cable Checkout was completed. CBEF-L is a JAXA new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original CBEF currently aboard the ISS.  CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment.  By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction – Growth and Extinction Limit (SoFIE-GEL): Troubleshooting efforts for the SoFIE rotating sample container was performed. The SoFIE-GEL investigation studies burning in microgravity, measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. The results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques, improving crew safety in future space facilities.
Smartphone Video Guidance Sensor (SVGS): SVGS LED Targets were installed onto specified JEM rack locations and the crew assisted the ground team in conducting science maneuvers.  SVGS demonstrates the use of a photogrammetric vision-based technology for guidance, navigation, and control of a small spacecraft. Developed by NASA, the vision-based sensor computes the position and orientation vector of a target relative to a coordinate system attached to a camera in the host platform, in this case the ISS free-flying robot Astrobee. This demonstration consists of five maneuvers involving motion control and data capture for one, two, and three Astrobee robots.
Systems:
SpaceX Crew Dragon Emergency Response Training: Today, the Freedom crew reviewed the emergency deorbit entry and landing contingencies refresher. The onboard reviews will make sure the crew’s training is fresh in the event there is an emergency on the space station.
Toilet System Noise Survey: Today, the crew inspected locations on toilet where a pre-treat leak previously occurred and had since been cleaned. The toilet air filter was removed for photo inspections. The crew took acoustic measurements during toilet operation using acoustic monitor. This activity captures both sound level data for every second as well as an audio recording for the duration of the measurement. The purpose of the survey was to measure the acoustic environment in the habitable areas with and without the toilet acoustic cover sound abatement hardware to determining if the hardware is effective.
Nanoracks Airlock (NRAL) Trash Audit: Today, the crew audited trash that is expected to be loaded in the NRAL Trash Bag for disposal. The NRAL Airlock Trash Deploy is planned for July 2nd.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Attitude Control System (ACS) Optimized Propellant Maneuver (OPM) Execution
HRF Rack 2 Rack Power Down Commanding
SOFIE Sample Holder Troubleshooting
PRO Basic EXPRESS Rack 9B Activation Commanding in Columbus

