
Microbiome: Kelly collected samples in support of the Microbiome experiment which were then inserted into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for later return.  The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). To monitor the status of the crewmembers’ microbiome and immune system and their interaction with the unique environment of the ISS, periodic samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment are taken. As part of this study, the likelihood and consequences of alterations in the microbiome due to extreme environments, and the related human health risk, will be assessed.
SUPVIS-E Troubleshooting: Kelly conducted a conference with SUPVIS-E specialists, then with the ground assistance, successfully performed troubleshooting on the laptop in an attempt to regain connectivity and allow proper communication between the laptop and ground. ESA ground controllers will continue with commanding and checkout of the laptop.  SUPVIS-E aims at simulating selected future Human exploration scenarios including immersive remote control of a robot by an astronaut in orbit around a target object (such as Mars or the Moon). A crew member will control the ESA test rover located at ESOC (Germany) in near real time.
SpaceX (SpX)-7 Preparations: Kelly and Padalka completed another session of On Board Training (OBT) with the robotics trainer to prepare for capture/berthing of the Dragon vehicle. Today they practiced a 30 meter approach and two capture point hold runs. SpX-7 launch is planned for Sunday, June 28 with berthing on Tuesday, June 30. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


SLEEP Questionnaire
Self-Reaction Test. Reaction Time Test (morning)
BIOME – Survey Completion
Biochemical Urine Test
URISYS Hardware Stowage
HRF. Sample MELFI Insertion
Intermodular TORU Test with Docked Progress 425 (AO)
PROBOY. RSЕ1 Laptop Ops.
PROBOY. Penetration Simulator Ops.
HMS Defibrillator Inspection
BIOME. Sample collection
HRF. Sample MELFI Insertion
BIOME – Equipment stowage after sample collection
WRM Ops
PROBOY. Copy and Downlink Data
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops.
MOTOCARD. Assistance with the Experiment
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Vision Test
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Vision Test –  Complete Questionnaire
Dragon Approach and Berthing OBT using ROBoT, Session 1
СОЖ Maintenance
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Mating umbilicals to ARIS
RGN REC-TNK – Removal of depress hose for nominal operations
SPLANH. Preparation for Experiment
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Self-Reaction Test. Reaction Time Test

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


OBT Dragon RoBOT
N2 Distribution System Leak Check [In Work]

