
Cardiac Stem Cells:  In support of the ongoing Cardiac Stem Cells investigation, the crew changed out the media in one of the BioCell Habitats in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  Cardiac Stem Cells investigates how microgravity affects stem cells and the factors that govern their activity, in order to clarify the role of stem cells in cardiac biology and tissue regeneration.  This investigation also supports research into the possible acceleration of the aging process in microgravity. 
Lighting Effects: The crew set up and configured the Light Meter hardware and took readings in the Cupola, which uses the legacy General Luminaire Assembly (GLA). The Lighting Effects experiment hopes to better quantify and qualify how lighting can effect habitability of spacecraft. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
NanoRacks Module 9: The crew activated mixture tubes in support of the NanoRacks-National Center for Earth and Space Science-Casper (NanoRacks-NCESSE-Casper) investigation.  NCESSE supports various schools and student-designed experiments that address challenges of living and working in space. The program is also a key initiative for U.S. science, technology, engineering and math (STEM), that strives to educate and inspire the next generation of scientists and engineers to work on the space program.  The specific investigations supported today include Growth and Development of Fathead Minnows in Microgravity, Does the Structure of a Fairy Shrimp Change in Microgravity?, Soybean Germination in Microgravity, and Benefits of Mint.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday afternoon and overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm1 to grasp the Roll Out Solar Array (ROSA) Payload Jettison Micro-Square Fixture (MSF).  At 4:15pm CDT Controllers applied power to the ROSA Jettison Motors and the ROSA Payload was jettisoned from ISS.  Next they maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and SPDM to release Arm1 from the ROSA Jettison MSF to grasp the ROSA Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) MSF with Arm1 and to release Arm2 from the ROSA Operations MSF.  Finally the SSRMS and SPDM were maneuvered to position the ROSA FRAM at the Dragon Trunk threshold in preparation for stowing it later today. 
Potable Water Dispenser Relocation: The crew installed a potable water tee on the Node 1 to Node 3 portion of the potable water hose to provide a connection for the PWD. The crew then transferred the PWD from ExPRESS-6 to the galley rack.
Commercial Orbital Transport Services (COTS) UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Checkout:  In preparation for the upcoming SpaceX-11 departure planned for July 2nd, the crew coordinated with ground teams to activate the CUCU System and perform a Crew Command Panel (CCP) checkout. CUCU provides a command and telemetry communications link between ISS and Dragon during free flight operations in the vicinity of ISS.   
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Test Video Recording for Russia Today TV Channel
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
URAGAN. Observation and Photography
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
ARED Photo/TV Reminder
Glacier 4 Sample Remove
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
Replacement of sleeves and leg shells on ORLAN-МК #6 – prep
ARED Quarterly Inspection
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
ORLAN-МК #6 sleeves R&R
Lighting Effects Light Meter Readings Alternate 1
СК ОРЛАН-МК №6 sleeves replacement – help
European Modular Cultivation System Gas Valve Close
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Deployment Operations
Environmental Health System (EHS) Grab Sample Container (GSC) Sampling Operations
Dragon Lithium Hydroxide Filter Bag Remove and Replace
ORLAN-МК #6 leak check.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Heart Rate Monitor (HRM) iPad Downlink
Cardiac Stem Cells SABL Insertion
Cardiac Stem Cells Media Change 1 BioCell Habitat
WHC Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace
Progress 435 (DC1) stow ops for the hardware to be disposed of, with IMS update
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Setup
Node 2 Nadir Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK) Gather
NanoRacks Module 9 Ops Session 4
Galley Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Installation
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
TOCA Sample Data Record
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
Photo/TV CUCU Video Setup
COTS UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Crew Command Panel (CCP) Checkout
Photo TV CUCU Video Deactivation
Telescience Resource Kit Laptop Setup

Completed Task List Items

Crew powers down, unplugs, and stows Fast Neutron Spectrometer hardware

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

SSRMS Ops for ROSA FRAM Install into Drago Trunk
CUCU Checkout

