
Payloads
Lyophilization-2: The crew removed the sample tray from the sample chamber and then removed and stowed the hardware from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), completing the investigation Lyophilization-2 in Microgravity (Lyophilization-2) examines gravity’s effects on freeze-dried materials. Lyophilization, or freeze-drying, is a common method for formulating pharmaceuticals with improved chemical and physical stability. On Earth, the process leads to formation of layers with structural differences, but if such stratification is due to gravity, it may not occur in microgravity. This investigation, which follows up on previous work, could result in improved freeze-drying processes for the pharmaceutical and other industries.
NanoRacks Module-09: The crew performed Module-09 Operations 3 by performing activation, deactivation and/or shakes designated for each Mixture Tubes. NanoRacks Module-09 is a combination of 35 experiments provided by school students from 5 different countries. The experiments are housed within a NanoRacks Module container and is a combination of static biological experiments and some experiments that require crew interaction to mix materials to activate. The experiments within the module are returned to the ground for analysis.
OBiS (Oral Biofilms in Space): The crew hydrated the OBiS assembly session Pack 11 with Fluid Bag 3 into the Fluid Chamber and then restowed them for incubation for 30 minutes. Fluid Bag 3 is a fixative fluid medium, containing chemicals designed to arrest and preserve bacteriological growth within the Fluid Chamber. Packs 13 and 14 showed signs of leakage and were considered lost and disposed. Effect of Environmental Stressors on Oral Biofilm Growth and Treatment (Oral Biofilms in Space) studies the effect of gravity on the behavior of oral bacteria, including the structure of the bacterial community, and changes in bacterial response to common oral care agents. The findings could support development of novel treatments to fight oral diseases such as caries, gingivitis, and periodontitis. The investigation also could provide insights into how microgravity affects the microbiome of other mucosal surfaces in the body.
Plasma Krystall-4 (PK-4): The crew executed two Run 1 operations by catching clouds of particles inside the PK-4 chamber using the PK-4 HCI software on the European Physiology Module (EPM) laptop. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and Roscosmos performing research in the field of “Complex Plasmas”. Complex Plasmas are low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles, so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, non-linear waves, and instabilities in Complex Plasmas.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed several activities in preparation for the ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) 4B Install EVA. The crew configured EVA tools, performed a post-EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) loop scrub on EMU 3006, charged batteries for EVA equipment, and installed Long Life Batteries (LLBs) and Metal Oxide (METOX) cartridges in EMUs 3009 and 3015. Finally, the crew performed a visual review of the IROSA 4B Install EVA using the Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphic (DOUG) software, reviewed EVA procedures, and participated in a conference with the ground. The IROSA 4B Install EVA is planned for Friday, June 25th.
Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew completed the final cargo loading for Cygnus Northrup Grumman-15 (NG-15). NG-15 is scheduled for unberth and release from the ISS on Tuesday, June 29th.
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): The crew completed Max CEVIS today which is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. The test is performed every 90 days and upon the crew’s arrival and departure from the ISS.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Eye Exams: The crew completed routine eye exams using the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) device. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue. In this case, the objects of interest are the crewmember’s eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor each crewmember’s optical health. Eyesight is one of many aspects of the human body affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SDMS Activation for BD2 Exercise
EVA Procedure Conference
RS Water Transfer Support

