06-24-2009June 24, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/24/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   CDR Padalka continued his work in the Soyuz 18S spacecraft, where he completed Part 2 of removing & replacing the KhSA-SA Cooler/Dehumidifier.    [On Flight Day 2 of the 18S free-flight mission, the KhSA-SA fan failed to function.  After several orbits of troubleshooting by TsUP-Moscow and the crew, the fan was finally declared failed and the redundant fan #2 was activated.]   FE-4 Thirsk charged several camcorder batteries on the Dual Canon Lithium-Ion Battery Charger in preparation for tomorrow’s planned Worklight test.   FE-1 Barratt completed the regular monthly session (his second) with the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer)’s acuity in a number of critical health areas.     [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]   After relocating the NASA FSS (Fluid Servicer System) from the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) to the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and recirculating its jumpers prior to connecting them to the COL TCS (Thermal Control System) loop, FE-2 Wakata refilled the TCS Loop (at WPA2/Water Pump Assembly 2) with coolant.  Afterwards, the FSS was torn down again.   In the US Airlock, Barratt checked the OCV (Open-Circuit Voltage) of EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) batteries in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly), using BC3 (Battery Charger 3).   FE-3 Romanenko copied accumulated EXPOSE-R science data from the BSMM (Multiplex Bus Synchronization Unit) to a PCMCIA memory card in the RSS1 laptop.    [The European EXPOSE-R experiment contains plant seeds and spores of bacteria & fungi.  It was mounted outside the SM during the Russian EVA-21A on 3/11 after some earlier problems.]    Mike Barratt reviewed familiarization material (reference file, test plan, test procedure) of the upcoming session with the SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites) payload.    [The SPHERES experiment is a test bed for the development and testing of formation flying and other multi-spacecraft control algorithms.  SPHERES, done first by FE-1 Jeff Williams on Expedition 13, serves to mature autonomous satellite formation flight, rendezvous and docking algorithms in a long duration, microgravity environment.  Single-satellite experiments test new thrusting algorithms utilizing onboard accelerometers and gyroscopes to more accurately apply velocity commands; they also use a new technique to more accurately estimate velocity.  The two-satellite experiments introduce new controllers and path planning tools for purpose of docking to a tumbling satellite.  Formation flight experiments test initialization of a formation, and obstacle avoidance.  These tests help to develop the concept of a “fractionated spacecraft,” which uses a loose formation of small satellites to perform the tasks of a single large spacecraft.  Per applicable Flight Rule, SPHERES operations have no CO2 (Carbon Dioxide) output constraints if the CDRA (CO2 Removal Assembly) is operating in dual-bed or single-bed mode.]   Roman used the CMS (Countermeasure System), a component of the SKDS GANK-4M suite, to check for Vinyl Chloride, Ethanol, and Ethylene Oxide.    [CMS uses preprogrammed microchips to measure for numerous contaminants such as O-Xylol (1,2-Dimethylbenzol, C8H10), Hydrogen Chloride (HCl), Formaldehyde, Isopropanol, Methanol, Toluene, Mercaptan, Sulphur dioxide, Hydrogen cyanide, Phosgene, etc.]   The FE-3 also refreshed the ISS atmosphere with O2 (oxygen) from Progress 33P storage.    [Since 33P undock is now scheduled for 6/30 (Tuesday), the remaining O2 will be depleted from the Progress tanks over the next few days.]   Mike conducted the periodic status & screen check on the payloads CGBA (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus) and ENose (Electronic Nose), both located in the ER-2 (EXPRESS Rack 2).   The FE-1 also performed the periodic status check on the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge, inspecting the desiccants and looking for any internal condensation moisture.    [MERLIN is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.]   Barratt ran another test session of the SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment) payload in the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), controlled by its A31p with SPICE microdrives.    [Mike exchanged burner tubes, set up the still camera, exchanged the gas bottle with new fuel, performed ignition to start the flame test, adjusted to the smoke point and took photos.  After the tests, Mike was to close out the session, exchange video tape & microdrive and power down the MSG.  SPICE determines the point at which gas-jet flames (similar to a butane-lighter flame) begin to emit soot (dark carbonaceous particulate formed inside the flame) in microgravity.  Studying a soot emitting flame is important in understanding the ability of fires to spread and in control of soot in practical combustion systems in space.]   The CDR terminated the recharge of the power packs for the BAR instrument “Kelvin-Video”, then initiated and later ended charging batteries for the TTM-2 instrument.    [Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  The payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss anemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]   The FE-3 completed the periodic transfer of US condensate water from CWCs (#1074, #1021) to the RS (Russian Segment) for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, filling the designated KOV EDV container.  Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.]   Romanenko had another ~3.0 hrs set aside for stowing discarded equipment and trash on the 33P cargo vehicle-turned-trash can.   For the JAXA EPO (Education Payload Operations) program, Koichi set up the video camera and conducted a session, explaining the difference between weight and mass utilizing the microgravity environment.    [The video was downlinked in real time so that the EPO ground team could provide feedback during the demo.]   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).   [On the CEVIS, the actual loads remain slightly lower than the commanded loads, but this was expected.  A manual correction of the pertinent calibration coefficient via the control panel touch screen will be done at a later time when the new value has been determined.]    Later, Frank DeWinne transferred the exercise data file to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).   CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Northern Isle of France, Mauritius (HMS Beagle Site:  CEO is part of a team that is attempting to acquire imagery along the route of the HMS Beagle.  These images will be used in various ways for science, education and outreach by the HMS Beagle participants.  On April 29, 1836 the HMS Beagle arrived at Port Louis, Mauritius, remained for a few days, and departed on May 9), Brent Impact Crater, Ontario, Canada (Brent impact crater is 3.8 kilometers in diameter and is one of the older craters, dated at approximately 396 million years.  As with many craters in Canada, this one is highlighted by lakes that partially fill the crater.  The crater should have been directly under track), St. Paul Rocks islets, Brazil (HMS Beagle Site: Darwin and the HMS Beagle landed on St. Paul's Rocks on February 16, 1832.  In his notes Darwin puzzled about why these islands were located so far away from any continent.  He correctly surmised that the islands were volcanic in nature.  He also noted that the rocks of St. Paul had a "brilliantly white colour".  He discovered this was due to the dung of sea birds.  Looking slightly right of track for the islands of St Paul), Middlesboro Impact Crater, KY (Middlesboro the impact crater is almost totally filled by the city of Middlesboro today.  It is approximately 6 km in diameter and its age has been estimated to be at least 300 million years.  It is located in the Appalachian Mountains, between the Cumberland Mountains and Pine Mountains.  So far CEO has only two images of this crater in the database.  The crater should have been directly under the orbit track), and Tropical Storm Andres, Pacific Ocean (currently a tropical storm, Andres, is forecasted to become a hurricane.  Looking left of the orbit track for this first Pacific hurricane of the season.  The present movement of the storm is to the northwest and hurricane warnings are in effect for the southwestern coast of Mexico.  The maximum sustained winds at this time are 60 knots, with gusts to 75 knots.)   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  