
Umbilical Interface Assembly (UIA) Remove and Replace (R&R) Troubleshooting: During the UIA R&R yesterday, the crew noted that the Oxygen (O2) Supply line was approximately 2-3 mm too short to be properly mate without applying a tensile, stretching force to make contact.  Initial troubleshooting was unsuccessful, and the O2 line was left partially connected and bagged against Foreign Object Debris (FOD) overnight while engineering evaluated the forward plan. This morning, the crew investigated if loosening the 20 fasteners securing the UIA to the Airlock mounting bracket would generate any free play and allow the crew to take up the gap; unfortunately, the crew indicated the tolerances were too tight and this was not possible. The crew alternatively investigated various tool configurations needed to remove the O2 Supply Line from the bulkhead in support of a backup plan to install a longer, alternate oxygen line.  Engineering teams continue to evaluate pictures taken during today’s troubleshooting and are working additional procedures for the crew’s UIA activities tomorrow.
Atomization: The crew replaced sample syringes for the Atomization investigation today. The Atomization experiment investigates the disintegration processes of a low-speed water jet for various jet issue conditions in the JEM to validate the new atomization concept by observing the process using a high-speed camera. The knowledge gained can be applied to improve various engines utilizing spray combustion. 
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS) 3: The crew transferred a MICS 3 ampoule kit to the ISS Portable Glovebag and broke the seal between the upper and center ampoules in each of the two sample bags and mixed the contents in the ampoules with a spatula. Later today, the crew broke the seal between the center and lower ampoules in each sample bag and pushed the alcohol in the lower ampoule to cover the hardened cement sample. They then returned each sample bag to the kit bag and stowed them for return.  The MICS investigation supports the evaluation of microstructure and material properties of benchmark cement samples.  Different responses to thermal and mechanical loading are expected and will be characterized in detail.  Positive attributes found in the hardening process due to the microgravity environment aboard the ISS will be reported with the intent of improving Earth-based cement and concrete processing. 
Angiex Cancer Therapy: The crew completed configuration of the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Life Science hardware and the Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL) CO2 meter today for the Angiex Cancer Therapy investigation.  The remaining steps will be completed prior to the investigation’s operations that are scheduled to start after arrival of samples on the SpaceX-15 vehicle.  The Angiex Cancer Therapy investigation examines whether endothelial cells cultured in microgravity represent a valid in vitro model to test effects of vascular-targeted agents on normal blood vessels. Angiex has developed a treatment that targets both tumor cells and vasculature, but needs a better model on which to test it. This study may facilitate development of a cost-effective method that does not require animal testing and which may help develop safer and more effective vascular-targeted drugs. 
MagVector 3D: The crew changed MagVector 3D samples today.  A total of 12 different samples will be processed on the ISS (1 per day).  ESA’s MagVector investigation supports a study of how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research is expected to help improve future ISS experiments and electrical experiments, and could also offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general.
Team Task Switching (TTS):  A crewmember completed a TTS survey today.  When crewmembers are often required to switch their attention between tasks, performance on each of the tasks can be affected.  The objective of the TTS investigation is to gain knowledge about whether or not crewmembers have difficulty in switching tasks and determine the impacts of these switches, in order to both reduce any negative consequences and improve individual and team motivation and effectiveness. 
PAO Event: This afternoon Serena Aunon-Chancellor participated in and event with the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum Washington, D.C.  The audience for this event are students who participated in the Future Engineers “Two for the Crew” Challenge and middle school students from the local DC area. 
Dragon Off-Set Grapple Training: During this afternoon’s training session, the crew practiced grapple approaches with the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) using the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) as the target.  They maneuvered SSRMS over the pin and practiced pulling the trigger when they were in the grapple envelope; since no Latching End Effector (LEE) commands were loaded, no mechanism motion was initiated upon the trigger pulls. Today’s session gave the crew an opportunity to assess the Robotics Worksite in the Cupola and determine how to best manage the volumetric constraints in the Cupola prior to capture day. 
Cupola Window 7 Vacuum Line Cover Taping: Today the crew performed a procedure to tape the Cupola Window 7 metal vacuum line closeout cover with Glass Cloth Tape and completed a photo survey of the Cupola Nomex Closeouts in the Cupola to document UV degradation. Earlier this year, the crew reported a softgood cover located in the Cupola was substantially faded and beginning to fall apart. This condition is most likely caused by Ultraviolet (UV) exposure through the Cupola Windows. The primary near-term concern is that the metal vacuum line closeout below the fabric cover is nickel-plated aluminum and presents a possible touch temperature hazard when exposed to direct sunlight.  
SpaceX-15 Cargo Prepack: Today the crew started the approximately 10 hours of Dragon Cargo Prepack in order to stage equipment and bags slated for return on SpaceX-15 Dragon. Dragon is scheduled to launch on Friday, 29 July with berthing on 2 July. 
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


XF305 Camcorder Setup
Atomization syringe replacement 2
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS) Preparation
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Setup
[УС] Separation Unit troubleshooting and setup
[СНТ]24 (А24) Replace
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS) 3 Ampoule Mix Ops
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
Regul-Packet switch to 2nd set Regul-ОС
[СНТ]24 (А24) TLM connector mate
Airway Monitoring Big Picture Words Read
[СНТ]24 (А24) Replace
Airway Monitoring Hardware Location
SPHERES Rechargeable Battery Install
Recycle Tank Drain
Audio session with the participants of Youth Center «Place. Valdai» opening
Team Task Switching Experiment Survey Subject
СОЖ maintenance
Cold Stowage Icebrick Stow
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Pressure gauge readings
Airway Monitoring Kit Consolidation
SPLANH. Completion of EGEG Recording and Closeout ops
Magvector 3D Sensor Array Sample Exchange
Robotic Workstation (RWS) High Definition (HD) Monitor Downlink
ОС Windows 7 activation, TORU and DESCENT simulators text on RSK1 laptop
ESA Weekly crew conference
Airlock Umbilical Interface Assembly (UIA) Troubleshooting
Locker Relocate
FAZOPEREKHOD. Experiment Setup and Start ops
SPHERES Rechargeable Battery Charge and Stow
Dragon Prepack
On-orbit hearing assessment using EARQ
[СНТ]24 (А23) Replace
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF1 Setup
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Cupola Window 7 Vacuum Line Cover Taping
CALCIUM. Experiment session 6
Robotic Workstation (RWS) High Definition (HD) Monitor Deactivation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Food Acceptability Questionnaire Subject
PAO Preparation
Plant Habitat Cable Reconfiguration
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
FAZOPEREKHOD. Experiment Setup and Start ops
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS) 3 Ampoule Mix Ops
Dragon Prepack
FAZOPEREKHOD. Experiment Setup and Start ops
[СНТ]23 (А23) TLM connector mate
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF1 Stow
СНТ]23 (А23) Replace
Food Acceptability Questionnaire Subject
Prep for СЭС and СУБК instrumentation troubleshooting in FGB
AngieX Cancer Therapy MSG Life Science Hardware Setup
SPHERES Rechargeable Battery Charge and Stow
SPHERES Crew Conference
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Offset Grapple
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
AngieX Cancer Therapy SABL CO2 Meter Setup
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Offset Grapple
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Stow
FAZOPEREKHOD. Closeout Ops
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
Multi Omics Item Gathering

Completed Task List Activities:

None 

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


MBSU Data Dump during CHT checkout
SSRMS Maneuver to position for Dragon Off Set Grapple
SSRMS Maneuver to Dragon Park position

