
Payloads:
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS-3D): The DOSIS-3D main box was removed and prepared for return to the ground. ISS crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation, which can be harmful to their health. DOSIS-3D uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS. 
ElectroMagnetic Levitator (EML) – Both argon valves were closed, and the helium valve was opened in support of upcoming science activities. EML is a multi-user facility that provides containerless melting and solidification of electrically conductive, spherical samples under ultra-high vacuum and/or high purity gas environments. Heating and positioning of the sample are achieved by electromagnetic fields generated by a coil system. The EML supports research in the field of meta-stable states and phases, as well as in the field of measurement of highly accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys in the stable and undercooled state.
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer-26 (NRCSD-26): The NRCSD-26 launcher hardware was installed onto the JEM Airlock slide table. NRCSD-26 will later be passed through the JEM Airlock and moved to its external deploy position. NRCSD-26 is currently planned to deploy its six satellites next week (SC-ODIN, MoonLighter, RADSAT-SK, Ukpik-1, ESSENCE, and IRIS). Some of the objectives for the NRCSD-26 satellites include Earth imagery, student projects, materials research, and geological sample exposure to space weather. The NRCSD system is an external deployer that is installed in the JEM Airlock and robotically placed in the deploy configuration using the JEM robotic arm.
Snowcone Cloud Edge Compute Demonstration (Snowcone): The Snowcone system was connected to an Ethernet cable, and software was loaded in support of upcoming science activities. Snowcone demonstrates technology to screen astronaut images and identify those that may contain sensitive information not for public release. The technology includes reduction of large-scale data and processing of data near the source, known as Edge computing, capabilities integral to future space exploration.
Zero-Robotics (ZR): The crew assisted with a ZR unit test, which involves positioning the Astrobee Free Flyer in the JEM and performing multiple gesture-recognition software test runs. For Astrobee-Zero Robotics (Zero Robotics), students write software to control one of the space station’s Astrobee free-flying robots. The first several rounds of the competition, co-led by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Innovation Learning Center, and many collaborators, use an online simulation. Finalists have their code downloaded by NASA to the Astrobee platform and observe its performance. The experience helps inspire the next generation of scientists, engineers, and explorers.
Systems:
JEM Mesh Cover Return Grille Cleaning: The crew removed the Return Grille Mesh Cover and cleaned inside of Return Grilles at several JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) locations. Return grilles are installed along the cabin duct located in the deck standoffs. The return grilles are the intakes for JPM cabin air conditioned in the Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) assemblies. The mesh cover, which is replaceable, is used to prevent foreign objects from entering.
SpX-28 Departure Preparations: The crew continued SpX-28 departure activities including cargo transfer operations and SpX-Crew Dragon Free Flight Contingencies and Emergencies Refresher training. SpX-28 is scheduled for undocking on Thursday, June 29th.
Airlock Closeout Panel A/L1D2 S-Clip Installation: As part of in-flight maintenance, the crew removed the Airlock Closeout Panels and installed S-Clips onto the Deck Stowage Platform. The crew then installed Closeout Panel A/L1D2 using the new S-Clips to secure the panel to the Deck Stowage Platform. This activity allows the crew to more easily install and secure the Airlock panels. The Airlock Stowage Platform was installed in 2021 to replace the stowage bin and increase stowage capacity.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Crew Dragon System Checkout

