
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (BCAT-KP):  Kelly changed the camera battery, transferred images to a laptop for downlink, and set the D2Xs intervalometer. The BCAT-KP experiment aims to help materials scientists develop new consumer products with unique properties and longer shelf lives. Colloids are mixtures of small particles distributed throughout a liquid, which include milk, detergents and liquid crystals. Gravity affects how the particles clump together and sink, making the ISS an ideal platform to study their fundamental behaviors.
Microbiome Setup: Kelly gathered and reviewed a reminder video prior to beginning his next round of Microbiome collections. The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). To monitor the status of the crewmembers’ microbiome and immune system and their interaction with the unique environment of the ISS, periodic samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment are taken. As part of this study, the likelihood and consequences of alterations in the microbiome due to extreme environments, and the related human health risk, will be assessed.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS in the Hot Backup Configuration in preparation for today’s SpX-7 Offset Grapple practice session. During the MSS power up they also performed the pre-launch checkouts. Kelly and Padalka practiced maneuvering the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into the grapple envelope of the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF).  They performed this eight times followed by a final run during which ground controllers safed the SSRMS to simulate a failure. The crew recovered by switching from the Cupola Robotic Workstation (RWS) to the Lab RWS and backed the SSRMS away. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Micro-purification Unit cartridge F2 regeneration (start)
SLEEP questionnaire
RSS1,2 reboot
[ВКС] laptops antivirus software update
WRS – fill for processing from EDV
PROBOI. The activity with on-board laptop RSЕ1.
PROBOI. Ops with penetration simulator.
BIOME questionnaire
EHS water purification system sample collection
TOCA – PWD water sample analysis
PHS hardware setup
PROBOI. Data copy and downlink
HMS- PHS
СОЖ Maintenance
PHS data entry hardware stow
MOTOKARD payload ops.
RWS activation
CALCIUM payload session #9.
Cable КСПЭ SM-FOTO-D3-03 audit
ECLSS vessel transfer and R&R
Dragon capture OBT #1
Progress rendezvous monitoring tagup
Cleaning panel vent screens of FGB interior panels (pan. 201, 301, 401)
OBT – SSRMS OBT debrief
TOCA data recording
WRS – water sample analysis
PAO equipment prep
BCAT- Image transfer from video camera
Crew prep for PAO
PAO
Robotics Work Station (RWS) Display and Control Panel (DCP) Checkout
URISYS hardware prep
IMS update
BIOME – prep for sample draw
TOCA – data recording
Micro-purification Unit cartridge F2 regeneration (end)

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


OBT Dragon offset grapple

