
62 Progress (62P) [ТОРУ] Test: 62P will undock and redock to Docking Compartment (DC)1 as part of end-of-mission activities. Undock is scheduled for tomorrow at 12:36AM CDT. As part of the test, manual mode will be used to redock the vehicle. Final undock is scheduled for July 2, at 10:48PM CDT.
Synchronized Position Hold Engage and Reorient Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Maintenance Run: Yesterday during SPHERES maintenance setup, the crew discovered corrosion on the battery terminals in the battery compartments of beacons 1, 2, and the spare beacon. Today the crew successfully removed the corrosion from beacons 1 and 2 and initiated the maintenance run. The first part of the run provided data that may aide ground teams in improving communication between satellites. The second portion of the run was not completed due to a hard drive installation issue, resulting in no data collection. However the issues were resolved and teams estimate that a majority of the desired data was collected from today’s activities.  SPHERES are bowling-ball sized satellites that provide a test bed for development and research into multi-body formation flying, multi-spacecraft control algorithms and free-flying physical and material science investigations. Up to three self-contained free-flying satellites can fly within the cabin of the ISS, performing flight formations, testing of control algorithms or as a platform for investigations requiring this unique free-flying test environment. Each satellite is a self-contained unit with power, propulsion, computers, navigation equipment, and provides physical and electrical connections (via standardized expansion ports) for Principle Investigator (PI) provided hardware and sensors.
Node 2 (N2) Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Inlet Fan: On June 5, the N2 CCAA inlet fan failed off due to high current draw. The failure is attributed to increased mechanical resistance to rotation.  The fan was restarted and its current draw decreased.  Review of data after the failure indicated a slow rise in current over several days preceding the failure.  The fan current data is now showing a similar rise and may trigger a shutdown within 4-6 days.  Ground teams are monitoring the fan current and are prepared for the crew to replace the N2 CCAA inlet Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU), which includes the fan, if necessary. 
Express Logistics Carrier (ELC) Software Update:  The software update to ELC version 4 for the ExPCAs (Express Carrier Avionics) on the 4 ELCs was completed yesterday.  The new software improves the process for modifying configurations and adds capabilities for future payloads on the ELCs.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. HAM Radio Session with Ufa r/g 2669
SPHERES Battery Stowage
SPHERES. Maintenance Run
СОЖ Maintenance
SPHERES Data Export
Dragon Prepack
PAO Hardware Setup
Crew Prep for PAO
PAO Event
Daily Planning Conference
USOS Window Shutter Close
ISS HAM – RADIO Deactivation 

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

SPHERES support
Nominal ground commanding 

