
Payloads
Plant Habitat-02 Latch Evaluation: Following issues experienced with the Environmental Control System (ECS) installation a few weeks ago, the crew performed a more detailed inspection of the failed locking mechanism on the new ECS.  The inspection went well and the crew was able to lock and unlock the ECS system in the current configuration.  The information gained will be used to develop a forward plan.  This is part of a series of activities to get the facility ready for samples currently launching on NG-14.  Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants.
TangoLab-2 Cardcube Troubleshooting: As a follow-up to the card 14 re-seat performed last week, the crew removed card 14 from its current slot and installed it in a different location.  Once this was accomplished the ground team reported the telemetry still indicated an issue.  As the next step of the troubleshooting, the crew removed the hexacube (experiment) from card 14 and reinstalled the card. The ground team subsequently reported off-nominal telemetry indicating the card itself may be the issue.  A replacement card is planned for launch on NG-14.  TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS.
Systems
S6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Today, the crew continued preparing for the S6 channel 1B battery upgrade EVA #2 by performing their equipment lock preps for Extravehicular Activity Mobility Units (EMU) 3004 and 3006.  The crew also completed the EVA tool audit, incorporated the cuff checklists, completed EVA procedure reviews and participated in a pre-EVA procedure review conference.  The second planned EVA to complete the changeout of the Channel 1B batteries is set for tomorrow, Wednesday, July 1, 2020. The crew is scheduled to egress the Quest Joint Airlock shortly after 6:40 am CT.
Completed Task List Activities:

EVA Procedure Review

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Lab MCA Mode Transition for Equipment Lock Prep
A/L LTL Flow Init/Term for Activities in A/L

