06-30-2011June 30, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/30/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     At day’s start, CDR Borisenko checked out proper communications between the BSPN Payload Server and the RSS1 laptop, and then downloaded data accumulated from the GFI-7 Molniya-GAMMA experiment mounted externally since the Russian EVA-28.       [GFI-17 “Molniya” FOTON-GAMMA investigates atmospheric gamma-ray bursts and optical radiation in conditions of thunderstorm activity.] FE-1 Samokutyayev closed out the water transfer from Progress 43P to the SM (Service Module)’s BV2 Rodnik tank started yesterday. Aleksandr also performed the periodic data dump from the BRI (SSR/Smart Switch Router) control log to the RSS1 laptop for downlink to the ground via OCA. FE-6 Fossum & FE-3 Garan had 5h 30m blocked out on their timeline for major IFM (Inflight Maintenance) in Node-2,- removing & replacing the failed CCAA (Common Cabin Air Assembly) heat exchanger in the P3 Midbay with a new spare HX ORU (Heat Exchanger Orbit Replaceable Unit) and lines.  Fossum later closed out the activity.      [Access to QDs (quick disconnects) required rotation of the P4 Rack to make room.  The Node-2 ducting was inspected by Mike & Ron for microbial growth and cleaned.  The removed CCAA HX ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) lines require an injection of air for thermal expansion before being returned to the ground on ULF7 along with the HX.  The CCAA HX ORU has become degraded and had to be replaced.  Its purpose is to remove moisture from the cabin atmosphere, but experts on the ground have seen indications of water passing into the downstream ducting.  If water has been collecting in this duct, there may be microbes growing; thus, Ron looked for that.]  FE-4 Volkov began the day by tending to the current experiment session with the Russian/German KPT-21 Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall/PK-3+) payload, checking on the pressure in the EB vacuum chamber which should not exceed ~5 mmHg.  Later, after configuring the STTS comm system for working in the MRM2 research module, Sergei initiated the experiment.  About 2 hrs later, the equipment was disconnected, results downloaded & downlinked and PK-3+ deactivated.  FE-1 Samokutyayev assisted by monitoring the downlinked TV signal.  STTS was restored to nominal afterwards.      [Main objective of PK-3 is to study wave propagation and dispersion ratio in a dust plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber, at a specified power of HF discharge, pressure, and a varied number of particles.] In the Lab, FE-5 prepared the SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment) payload equipment for a new series of sample runs.  (Last time conducted in January 2009 by Mike Fincke.)      [Satoshi’s steps included activating the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) from its laptop, setting up the video camera for over-the-shoulder real-time coverage, configuring the SHERE equipment in the MSG WV (Work Volume), powering on the hardware, and loading SHERE with its payload software application from the MSG laptop.  Afterwards, the hardware was powered down and the experiment closed out.    Background:  Rheology is the study of the deformation and flow of matter under the influence of an applied stress (“preshearing” = rotation) which might be, for example, a shear stress or extensional stress.  In practice, rheology is principally concerned with extending the "classical" disciplines of elasticity and (Newtonian) fluid mechanics to materials whose mechanical behavior cannot be described with the classical theories.  SHERE is designed to study the effect of preshear (rotation) on the transient evolution of the microstructure and viscoelastic tensile stresses for solutions with long chains of monodisperse dilute polymer molecules in the MSG.  Collectively referred to as “Boger fluids,” these polymer solutions have become a popular choice for rheological studies of non-Newtonian fluids and are the non-Newtonian fluid used in this experiment.  The SHERE hardware consists of the Rheometer, Camera Arm, Interface Box, Cabling, Keyboard, Tool Box, Fluid Modules, and Stowage Tray.] Each of the Soyuz 26S crewmembers, Borisenko, Samokutyayev & Garan, took the monthly O-OHA (On-Orbit Hearing Assessment) test, a 30-min NASA environmental health systems examination to assess the efficacy of acoustic countermeasures, using a special software application on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.      [The O-OHA audiography test involves minimum audibility measurements for each ear over a wide range of frequencies (0.25-10 kHz) and sound pressure levels, with the crewmembers using individual-specific Prophonics earphones, new Bose ANC headsets (delivered on 30P) and the SLM (sound level meter).  To conduct the testing, the experimenter is supported by special EarQ software on the MEC, featuring an up/down-arrow-operated slider for each test frequency that the crewmember moves to the lowest sound pressure level at which the tone can still be heard.  The baseline test is required not later than about Flight Day 14 for each new Expedition and is then generally performed once per month.  Note: There has been temporary hearing deficits documented on some U.S. and Russian crewmembers, all of which recovered to pre-mission levels.] Preparatory to the subsequent Robotics activities, Satoshi Furukawa powered up the RWS UOP (Robotic Workstation Utility Outlet Panel) in the Cupola, checked out the RWS DCP (Display & Control Panel), verified proper calibration of the Lab RWS hand controller and installed the CCR (Cupola Crew Restraint), which stabilizes the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) operator. Next, Furukawa & Fossum operated the SSRMS, walking it off the MBS (Mobile Base System) to Node-2 to preposition it for ULF7.  Later, Ron removed the CCR, and Satoshi disabled the RWS UOP.      [During the walkoff, the arm switched bases from MBS PDGF-2 (Power & Data Grapple Fixture 2) to the Node-2 PDGF:  In the first half of the procedure the arm, which was double-grappled to the MBS, released the MBS PDGF-3 with the tip LEE (Latching End Effector) and maneuvered it to grapple the Node-2 PDGF.  From there, the ground performed the base change (~12:15pm EDT).  Afterwards, Furukawa and Garan commanded the SSRMS to release the MBS PDGF-2 and maneuvered it to the ULF7 start configuration between the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and the truss via a series of JOCAS (Joint Operator Commanded Auto Sequence) movements.] With its SONY HVR-Z7 camcorder battery freshly charged overnight, CDR Borisenko installed & started the equipment of the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment at SM window #9 for another run of spectral observation of solar radiation during the transition to eclipse with the Fialka-MV-Kosmos equipment.  Later, Andrey dismantled & removed the equipment.       [Using the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka-MV-Kosmos” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and SONY HVR-Z7 HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from windows #9 & #6, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.] Later, the CDR conducted periodic routine maintenance in the SM’s ASU toilette facility, changing out replaceable parts with new components, such as a filter insert (F-V), the urine receptacle (MP), the pre-treat container (E-K) with its hose and the DKiV pre-treat & water dispenser.  All old parts were trashed for disposal, and the IMS (Inventory Management System) was updated.      [E-K contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H2SO4 (sulfuric acid), CrO3 (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple color), and H2O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed with water in the DKiV dispenser and used for toilet flushing.] Working in the FGB, Samokutyayev performed maintenance on the ITCS, removing & replacing the SPN VGK1-2 Hydraulic Loop Replaceable Pump Panel, stowing the removed panel and updating the IMS. Afterwards, Sergei & Sasha had 3 hrs set aside for performing checkout & maintenance on the Russian STTS telephone/telegraph subsystem low-frequency channel and all PA & VHF receivers, along with an audit/inventory.  Volkov then switched the STTS assets to the backup String 2.     [The "Voskhod-M" STTS enables telephone communications between the SM, FGB, DC1 Docking Compartment and U.S. segment (USOS), and also with users on the ground over VHF channels selected by an operator at an SM comm panel, via STTS antennas on the SM’s outside.  There are six comm panels in the SM with pushbuttons for accessing any of three audio channels, plus an intercom channel.  Other modes of the STTS include telegraphy (teletype), EVA voice, emergency alarms, Packet/Email, and TORU docking support.] The CDR completed the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways to ensure the ventilation/circulation system performs adequately with the six-member station crew.     [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]  Afterwards, Borisenko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.       [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Andrey also took care of the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Ron Garan had an hour for auditing/inventorying and reorganizing water sampling supplies in a large stowage bag (M-02 #1026).       [The bag has been reported as ”filled to the brim”, requiring extra crew time to locate any items contained in it.   Ron relocated items not related to water sampling to stowage sites in Node-2 and PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) and audited/reorganized remaining items in the bag.] Satoshi Furukawa continued retrieval of data from the T2 treadmill that had not been completely recovered yet.  These transfers were made to prevent loss of science during the upcoming major TVIS IFM (Inflight Maintenance).       [TVIS gyroscope R&R (removal & replacement) is planned for tomorrow, to be performed by Andrey & Sergei in the SM, in addition to some overdue maintenance.  First, TVIS will be taken from the pit, then the failed gyro will be removed and stowed for return on ULF7.  TVIS will be temporarily stowed until ULF7 docked ops during which the new gyroscope will be installed.] FE-6 filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).  It was Mike’s 2nd time.     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.] Shortly before bedtime, Aleks will initiate recharging the batteries for the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) hardware for another run tomorrow.      [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere]. Before “Presleep” period tonight, Garan powers on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starts the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.] The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-4, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4). Reboost Update:  The first one-burn ISS reboost (of 2) was performed yesterday morning at 8:15am EDT using the Progress 43P DPO rendezvous & docking thrusters, with attitude control handover to RS MCS (Motion Control System) at 6:50am and return to US CMGs at 9:30am.  Due to the thruster malfunction during 43P docking, only 4 thrusters were used (instead of the usual 8).  Burn duration: 33m 31s,- 25s longer than expected.  Actual Delta-V was 2.24 m/s (7.35 ft/s) rather than 2.10 m/s (6.9 ft/s) expected.  New mean altitude: 384.9 km (207.8 nmi), instead of 384.6 km (207.7 nmi), which put ISS in a potential conjunction situation, requiring DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) planning – which was subsequently cancelled as not necessary.   Reboost 2:   To provide the ISS with the remaining part of the intended delta-velocity, a second firing is scheduled tomorrow (Friday).  Recalculated parameters:  TIG (Time of Ignition): 8:16am EDT; burn duration: 30m 43s; delta-V expected: 1.95 m/s (6.4 ft/s); mean altitude expected: 388.3 km (209.7 nmi).  Purpose of the reboosts is to gain altitude and set up phasing conditions for ULF7. Robotics Update:   In further preparation for ULF7, the MT (Mobile Transporter) with the SSRMS will be moved from WS5 (Worksite 5) to WS7 by ground control ay 5:50pm-7:50pm.  For the MT will be temporarily disabled from 5:35pm-8:08pm. CEO targets uplinked for today were Victoria, Seychelles (ISS had a nadir pass over Mahe Island, the largest in a group of three larger islands and numerous small Ones.  Victoria is a capital city and observers are interested in capturing the entire city in one frame), Baku, Azerbaijan (looking nadir for this city of over 2 million.  This capital city of Azerbaijan is located in the extreme eastern part of the country and situated on the south side of the Abseron Peninsula which juts into the southeastern Caspian Sea), Aral Sea (the dramatic retreat and desiccation of the Aral Sea has been documented in Astronaut photography for decades now.  On this near-nadir pass approaching from the SW, the crew was to try for contextual mapping with overlapping views of the individual remaining pools of this once large water body), and Kellogg Biological Station, Michigan (the objective for shooting these LTER (Long Term Ecological Research) sites is to document land cover and land use change on a seasonal basis.  CEO observers asked for the 400 mm lens to differentiate boundaries between land cover and coastal biomes.  The Kellogg site is located in southwest Michigan in the eastern portion of the U.S. corn belt, 50 km east of Lake Michigan.  Looking right of track as ISS crossed the lake shore). 