07-01-2012July 01, 2012
ISS On-Orbit Status 06/30 & 07/01/12 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Yest posadka!  (We have Landing!)    Welcome back home, Oleg, André & Don!   After 193 days in space (191 days on ISS), Soyuz TMA-03M/29S carrying Exp-31 crewmembers Oleg Kononenko, André Kuipers & Don Pettit landed successfully today at 4:14am EDT in central Kazakhstan, almost exactly at the designated landing site.  The Descent Capsule remained upright, and the crew, which was in excellent condition, was quickly extracted by SAR (Search & Rescue) personnel.  Moscow time at touchdown was 11:14am; local time at landing site 2:14pm.   [TMA-03M (#703) undocked from the MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet nadir port this morning at 12:48am EDT, after the crew had closed hatches (ZPL) at 9:42pm and performed leak checks of the vestibule area between MRM1 and the Soyuz spacecraft, of their Sokol suits and of the hatch between the Descent Module (SA) and Orbital Module (BO).  Undocking was initiated by crew command to open hooks at 12:45am, and physical separation occurred at 12:48am.  About 3 min later, 29S performed the first manual separation burn, 10 seconds for a delta-V of 0.40 m/s with two DPO-B1 thrusters.  During the subsequent stationkeeping at ~50m, the crew tested the RODK digital autopilot, activating the spacecraft’s BTsVK onboard digital computer complex and VTsVK MCS (Motion Control System) “Chaika” and putting in the latest guidance parameter settings.  The actual de-orbit burn of 4 min 15 sec duration came at 3:19am, resulting in 115.2 m/sec deceleration.  Tri-module separation occurred smoothly at 3:47am.  At ~16 sec after the separation command, software pitched the PAO (Instrumentation/Propulsion Module) in the rear to a specific angle (-78.5 deg from reference axis) which, if PAO would have remained connected to the SA (as has happened twice in Soyuz history), would have resulted in enough heating on the connecting truss to melt it, thus ensuring separation.  Atmospheric entry (99 km) followed at 3:51am and nominal parachute deployment at 4:00am.  Following initial observation by Russian SAR (Search & Rescue) personnel in their fixed-wing Antonov plane and helicopters plus receipt of radio comm from the crew, the capsule landed at 4:14am, remaining upright. SAR was there within 2 minutes.  After the usual stopover in the medical tent, the crew was flown by helo 2 hrs to Karaganda where Don Pettit & André Kuipers boarded the waiting NASA-990 Gulfstream-III airplane which today is bringing them back to Houston/Ellington AFB (with 2 refueling stops),- the 9th direct return for USOS crewmembers.  Oleg Kononenko meanwhile was flown on the GCTC Tu-134 back to Chkalovsky airfield of the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center at Zvezdniy Gorodok (Star City).]  After a light-duty day yesterday, the remaining ISS crew of CDR Padalka, FE-2 Revin & FE-3 Acaba today has a free day, with sleep/rest from 5:00am this morning to 2:00am tomorrow. Recap of yesterday, Saturday (6/30), before & after Soyuz TMA-03M departure: At wakeup (1:00pm EDT), Joe Acaba, André Kuipers & Don Pettit completed their weekly post-sleep session of the Reaction Self-Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self-Test on the ISS) protocol, the 14th for Joe, the 51st for Don & André.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.] After wakeup, Gennady Padalka performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection. FE-2 Revin took care of the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] FE-4 Kononenko had another 3 hrs to wrap up cargo packing & stowing on the Soyuz spacecraft. Afterwards, at ~6:20pm, Oleg downlinked the standard “Loading Complete” report, then took documentary photo/video of the SA hatch cover and downlinked the files for ground inspection. For return to Earth, Sergei & Oleg transferred the Russian biotechnology experiments BIO-8 PLAZMIDA, BTKh-26 STRUKTURA (Luch-2) & MTKh-26 KASKAD to Soyuz, with photo and video documentation, then disconnected & removed the TBU BTKh incubator. Preparations for the undocking picked up momentum at ~8:05pm with Kononenko performing a communications check from the 29S spacecraft to RGS (Russian Groundsite) via VHF (Very High Frequency) and activation of the Soyuz spacecraft by Oleg & André at ~8:15pm, including removal of the SSD301 light fixtures in the BO Orbital Module for stowage in the FGB as spares. Russian thrusters were disabled from ~9:15pm-10:55pm due to load constraints for hatch closure and the removal, by Gennady, of the QD (quick disconnect) screw clamps (BZV) of the docking & internal transfer mechanism (SSVP) which rigidized the joint at the MRM2 nadir port. After Crew Farewell, Oleg, Don & André entered the Soyuz at ~9:42pm, covered by live PAO TV. Next, with the Soyuz spacecraft’s gas analyzer (GA) running, Kononenko inside and Padalka & Revin outside closed MRM1 & Soyuz hatches.  The departing Soyuz crew then started the standard one-hour leak check on the Soyuz-to-Rassvet vestibule (9:55pm-10:55pm). After attitude control authority handover to the RS MCS (Russian Segment Motion Control System) at ~11:55pm, the ISS maneuvered to undock attitude.  The returning crew then performed Sokol suit leak checks and depressurized the BO Orbital Module by 150 mmHg for leak checking the SA-BO hatch.  Next, they donned their Kentavr G-suits, biomed belts and Sokol space suits.   ISS went into Free Drift at 12:44am-12:49am for MRM1 hooks opening and Soyuz undocking at ~12:48am.  Attitude control returned to US Momentum Management with CMGs (Control Moment Gyros) at ~4:25am EDT. With the undocking of Soyuz 29S, Increment 31 ended and Inc-32 began. Activities scheduled for CDR Padalka immediately after undocking were –Monitoring 29S departure and shooting photography of the Soyuz Docking Assembly from SM window #7 after separation, for ground inspection for cleanliness (i.e., no seal debris),Manually closing the KVD/PEV (Pressure Equalization Valve) between the MRM2 Poisk module and its nadir docking port vestibule,Downlinking the videos taken by him of the Soyuz/MRM1 hatch interface prior to hatch closure and of the hatch closing,Readying, activating/monitoring and later closing out the Russian “Istochnik-M” (source, spring) telemetry reception & recording (SPR TMI) system in the SM during the Soyuz re-entry for the trimodule separation at 3:47:38am;   [Istochnik-M enables the ISS to receive data telemetered from Soyuz spacecraft during return to Earth and record it on the SPR telemetry system.  The equipment, including the Istochnik TM station, power amplifiers, power supply, USB software sticks and cables, captures the telemetry through the “Sputnik” amateur (ham) radio antenna and transfers it to a laptop display where the crew is able to immediately tell if a good separation of the three Soyuz modules occurred during Soyuz descent operations],  andReturning the STTS comm system to its post-undocking configuration. Before and after hatch closure, FE-3 Acaba –Supported JAXA payload ops in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) by reconfiguring settings of the PLT2 (Payload Laptop Terminal 2) and activating it, Downlinked the photo/video footage of the crew departure via MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter),Conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 & O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes,Retrieved & stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies which Kuipers had deployed on 6/29 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground; [two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow],Relocated emergency equipment in preparation for the arrival of Soyuz TMA-05M/31S with Williams, Malenchenko & Hoshide on 7/17, moving the 30S (prime) crew’s PEP (Portable Emergency Provisions) equipment to the FGB and pre-configuring the emergency equipment of the 31S crew;  [after removing the previous prime crew name labels from the Ammonia Respirators and relocating the masks to the respirator stockpile, Joe moved the current 30S (prime) crew’s respirators from MRM1 to FGB, got three respirators from the FGB stockpile, labeled them for the upcoming crew and stowed them in MRM2, then took the Ammonia Detection kit from MRM1 to MRM2, and reported the various serial numbers to TsUP-Moscow],Filled out his 6th FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer);  [on the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily]; andHad a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on the personal SSC. The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6).  FE-3, FE-5 & FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), André at ~4:00pm, Don at ~5:25pm, Joe at ~6:55pm EDT. A task listed for Padalka on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today was a ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop. 