
47 Soyuz (47S) Docking: 47S is scheduled to dock to the ISS tonight at 11:12PM CDT. With the arrival of Expedition 48 crew members Anatoly Ivanishin, Takuya Onishi and Kate Rubins, the ISS will be in 6-crew operations until 46S return on September 6.
Mouse Epigenetics Setup Operations: In preparation of the Mouse Epigenetics experiment arriving on SpaceX (SpX)-9, the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) laptop was relocated, the medical laptop was configured, and a converter was set up in the Experiment Laptop Terminal 2 (ELT2) and the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF). The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space, and also examines changes in the DNA of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space. 
3D Printing in Zero-G Experiment: The ground team continued remotely operating the 3D printer to produce 3D printed test coupons in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), after which the crew removed and stowed them. This second week of printing has produced a variety of 3D printed test coupons including calibration, tensile, compression, and layer specimen coupons. The 3D Printing In Zero-G experiment demonstrates that a 3D printer works normally in space. A 3D printer extrudes streams of heated plastic, metal or other material, building layer on top of layer to create 3 dimensional objects. Testing a 3D printer using relatively low-temperature plastic feedstock on the ISS is the first step toward establishing an on-demand machine shop in space, a critical enabling component for deep-space crewed missions and in-space manufacturing.
Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack-3 Locker Removal: In preparation for SpX-9 Polar 3 installation, the EXPRESS Rack locker was removed and the vent closeout panel was installed. EXPRESS Racks are multipurpose payload rack systems that store and support research aboard the ISS. They can support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space and provide simple, standard interfaces to accommodate up to 10 small payloads, resulting in a total capability to operate up to 80 experiments. 
Lab Robotic Work Station (RWS) Monitor R&R:  Today the ISS crew replaced Lab RWS Monitor 3 with an on-orbit spare.  That monitor was observed to have failed on the morning of the recent Cygnus release.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Water flow through Microbial Removal Filter
PAO hardware setup in LAB
Crew Prep for PAO / r/g 2741
ELT2 Battery Changeout
TV Session with the participants of N.E. Bauman University Pan-Russian Youth Science School r/g 2741
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Hardware Removal and Relocation
Medical Laptop (MDLT) Deactivation and Removal
Experiment Laptop Terminal 2 (ELT2) Removal and Relocation
ELT2  Setup
ELT2 Converter Setup
Changing Configuration between CBEF IPU
Food Pantry Installation [Deferred]
Terminate BSA Battery Stowage Assembly Maintenance Cycle
Start BSA Battery Charge
Food Frequency Questionnaire
POLAR3 Hardware preparation for SpX-9 Polar 3 installation
3DP Coupon removal and stowage
Microbial Removal Filter (MRF) Purge
Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4 (CGBA4)  Unit Activation
SSC15 Relocation
IMS Conference
IFM-RWS MON Robotics Workstation (RWS) Monitor 3 R&R
СОЖ Maintenance
Terminate transfer of water to water storage tank via MRF filter [Deferred]
Water flow through Microbial Removal Filter
Closing USOS Window Shutters
 

Completed Task List Items

None 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

47S docking
Nominal ground commanding. 

