
Payloads
Fluids Integrated Rack/Light Microscopy Module (FIR/LMM)/CDM change out: As a continuation of the CDM experiment, the crew installed the sixth of the ten experiment modules on the FIR/LMM.  Capillary-Driven Microfluidics in Space (Capillary Driven Microfluidics or more simply, CDM) examines the drawing of fluids into a tiny narrow tube in microgravity. Results may improve current mathematical models and understanding of microfluidic systems and improve fluid control in various devices. Diagnostic devices require separation of blood cells and plasma, which have different densities, and the absence of sedimentation and buoyancy-driven convection in microgravity improves the efficiency of this separation.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF)/Round Robin Cartridge Clean: As part of the on-going Round Robin investigation, the crew removed, cleaned and reinstalled the ELF sample cartridge.  The Round Robin – Thermophysical Property Measurement (Round Robin) investigation provides researchers with a better understanding of how to measure liquid metal properties to revolutionize how process modeling can support design, flight qualification and production of advanced spaceflight systems.
JEM Airlock (JEMAL)/Kaber Removal: In preparation for the NRCSD-18 installation on Tuesday, the crew removed the Kaber and associated hardware from the JEMAL slide table.  Kaber was used for the recent Red-Eye satellite deploys, but is not needed for NRCSD (NanoRacks Cubesat Deployer) deploys.  Each NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer accommodates up to eight launch cases. The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer meets the growing demand to deploy CubeSat format satellites from the International Space Station for a variety of customers.
SCRAM Reorientation: The crew repositioned the SCRAM in its current location to orient its detector inlet in a different position.  The goal of this activity is to obtain better science data.  SCRAM demonstrates the capabilities of a small, reliable, portable gas chromatograph mass spectrometer instrument aboard the ISS to conduct major and minor elements of air measurement (Nitrogen, Oxygen, Carbon Dioxide, Methane, Water, etc). The instrument transmits data back to the ground research team every two seconds, providing a continuous analysis to the ground research team. It has a mass of less than 9.5 kg, and consumes less than 40 watts of power.
Systems
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEP) Inspection: Today, the crew performed the periodic PEP inspection, which involves utilizing a PEPs matrix and inspecting various emergency provisions such as the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), Quick Don Mask (QDM), and Extension Hose Tee Assemblies at multiple locations throughout the space station.  The crew spends several minutes on each item and notes any visible damage.  Inspections are performed routinely to ensure the PEPs are in good operational condition.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collection:  Today, the ISS crew collected water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water.  The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These two tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) P32B_A experienced a power on reset (POR) on GMT 183 due to a hybrid Field Effect Transistor (FET) failure on RPC 1, which provides downstream power to the P3-2 Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM). The RPCM will be removed and replaced (R&R)ed robotically this week. Today, robotics ground controllers (ROBO) began operations to replace the RPCM by stowing the HTV9 External Pallet (EP) on the POA, and then translating the MT from Workstation (WS) 1 to WS 5. Following the translation this afternoon, the SPDM will be unstowed from the LAB. ROBO will continue robotics ops into the evening translating the MT from WS 5 to WS7. Additional robotics will be executed tomorrow to proceed towards performing the RPCM R&R at the end of the week.
Completed Task List Activities:

Light Installation at JPM1OF6
Light Installation at JLP1FP2
Light Installation at JPM1OF1 and JPM1OA4
Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Time Update
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap
HRF Rack 2 8 PU Drawer Power On
Columbus Cabin Cargo Consolidation
HTV9 Cargo Operations (ongoing)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Ground Support for Robotics Operations
Lab CDRA to Standby in prep for CSV R&R

