07-05-2011July 05, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/05/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     CDR Borisenko began the day with the periodic (monthly) functional closure test of the Vozdukh CO2 (carbon dioxide) removal system’s spare AVK emergency vacuum valves, in the spare parts kit.     [The AVKs are crucial because they close the Vozdukh's vacuum access lines in the event of a malfunction in the regular vacuum valves (BVK) or a depressurization in the Vozdukh valve panel (BOA).  Access to vacuum is required to vent CO2 during the regeneration of the absorbent cartridges (PP).] Afterwards, Borisenko went on a search for a bracket and adapter for the Klest camera used for EVA video monitoring.      [The equipment in question was then to be photographed, and the images copied to laptop for downlink via OCA.]  After receiving the Go from POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center/Huntsville), FE-3 Garan powered up the GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator) hardware in the Lab from the front panel. FE-4 Volkov performed troubleshooting on the TORU teleoperator system in the SM (Service Module), checking out cables, connectors and sockets for both undocking (if necessary) & redocking mode and running tests with the RUD & RUO hand controllers to check out the system. Afterwards, Sergei dedicated about 2h10m to continue cargo transfers from Progress 43P, with moves logged in the IMS (Inventory Management System) database. FE-5 Furukawa had ~4 hrs set aside for continuing prepacking and staging ULF RTG (Return to Ground) cargo.  Later, at ~1:10pm, he tagged up with ground specialist for a prepack debrief.    [Out of the original 20 hrs for ULF7 prepacking, only 8 hrs remain to be done.] Later, Satoshi gathered the items required for his next CsPINs 2 (Dynamism of Auxin Efflux Facilitators responsible for Gravity-regulated Growth and Development in Cucumber 2) session, then started CsPINs Run 2-5 by first watering 2 CsPINs Chamber A sample units which were then inserted into two MEU Bs (Measurement Experiment Units B) for subsequent attachment in the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) 1G IU (Incubator Unit) for the incubation duration (the next 24 hrs).      [Background: CsPINs studies the phenomenon of tropism, i.e., the growth or turning movement of a biological organism, usually a plant, in response to an environmental stimulus.  Specifically focusing on gravity, the new JAXA experiment investigates how plants sense gravity as an environmental signal and use it for governing their morphology and growth orientation.  CsPINs plays an important role in the regulation of gravity-dependent redistribution of auxin (a class of plant hormones) and thereby controls gravimorphogenesis (peg formation) in cucumber (Cucmis sativus L.) seedlings.  Gravitropism also interferes with hydrotropism in cucumber roots, in which the dynamism of these facilitators may also play a role.  Cucumber (Cucmis sativus) seedlings are used to analyze the effect of gravity on the expressions of CsPINs and unravel their contributions to peg formation.  Hydrotropism is differentiated from gravitropism in roots, and the expressions of CsPINs are compared to determine the interacting mechanism between the two tropisms.]  In preparation for the arrival of MPLM (Multi-Purpose Logistics Module) Raffaello on STS-135/ULF7, FE-6 Fossum conducted an inventory/audit of the MPLM VOK (Vestibule Outfitting Kit) and pre-gathered equipment required for post-berthing vestibule outfitting and other MPLM operations. Afterwards, Mike started a readiness check/audit of tools in Node-2 required for MPLM activities but put its completion on temporary hold due to timeline/scheduling constraints. Borisenko terminated the overnight charging of the KPT-2 Piren battery and verified functionality of the Piren-B Piroendoscope.  Later in the day, he & FE-1 Samokutyayev spent ~2.5 hrs with the KPT-12 payload with its BAR science instruments suite, using the Piren-B instrument to check out micro conditions of SM panel cladding material (PFO/material oblitsovki panelej) to assess the necessity of panel replacement.  Panels under scrutiny were 307, 310, 334, 335, 336 & 310.  Problem area monitoring is necessary to predict shell micro-destruction rate and to develop measures to extend station life.  Data were copied to the RSE1 laptop for downlink to Earth via OCA, with photographs, and the activities were supported by ground specialist tagup as required.       [Objective of the Russian KPT-12/BAR science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Piren-B is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods & means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Besides KPT-2 Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.] Samokutyayev, Borisenko & Volkov undertook the periodic (generally monthly) health test with the cardiological experiment PZEh MO-1 (“Study of the Bioelectric Activity of the Heart at Rest”) on exercise equipment, the 2nd for both Sasha & Andrey, the first for Sergei.    [Equipment used was VPG/Temporal Pulsogram and 8-channel ECG/Electrocardiogram Data Output Devices (USI).  The test took place during an RGS (Russian Groundsite) overflight window (~5:31am EDT) via VHF for data downlink from the VPG and Gamma-1M ECG for about 5-6 minutes.] After readying materials & tools needed for completing the IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the Lab MCA (Major Constituents Analyzer) begun earlier, FE-3 Garan installed the new MCA MSA (Mass Spectrometer Assembly) after modifying its connector saver, and then replaced the VGA (Verification Gas Assembly).     [The old MSA had been uninstalled on 7/1.  For the R&R, Ron first had to remove the Lab MCA Drawer for which the D6 rack had to be rotated down (away from the wall).  To gain access to the MSA (Mass Spectrometer Assembly), the VGA (Verification Gas Assembly) also had to be taken out temporarily. The failed spectrometer has been removed and prepacked for return.  The threads of the drawer, which had caused a problem on 7/1, were examined, and th4e drawer was closed, with utilities not yet reconnected.] Garan & Furukawa afterwards conducted a review of uplinked POC DOUG (Portable Onboard Computers / Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) software material for the OBSS (Orbiter Boom Sensor System) unberthing & handoff procedures for ULF7, running DOUG in standalone mode.      [On FD3 (Flight Day 3), Ron & Satoshi will use the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Maneuvering System) to unberth the OBSS from the ISS truss and hand it over to the SRMS (Shuttle RMS), operated by Chris Ferguson & Doug Hurley.]  Afterwards, at ~11:05am, FE-3 & FE-5 tagged up with Robotics and training personnel on the ground to discuss any questions with the planned operations. Fossum deployed four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies in the Lab (at bay P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307) for two days, to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.      [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.] Mike also collected the periodic cabin air samples with the GSC (Grab Sample Container) in the center of the SM, COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) & Lab (near the AQM/Air Quality Monitor). Sasha Samokutyayev conducted his 4th session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop for the 2h 20m activity.      [Sergei Volkov assisted Sasha in donning the electrode cap, preparing his head for the electrodes, and applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.] Furukawa cleaned out the Bay F1 area of PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) Leonardo to make room for food arriving on ULF7.     [EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) 2011 was relocated from the F3 rack to the PMM endcone, M-01 bag #1018 to F3 rack front, and all other food CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) to A1.] Andrey performed periodic service of the RS (Russian Segment) radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), initializing & re-deploying new Bubble dosimeters detectors and verifying proper function of the setup with the LULIN-5 electronics box, supported by ground specialist tagup.     [A total of eight Bubble dosimeter detectors (A21-A28) were initialized in the Bubble dosimeter reader in the SM and positioned at new exposure locations.  The deployment locations of the detectors were photo-documented with the NIKON D2X camera and also reported with initialization data to TsUP via log sheet via OCA.  The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls], Ron & Mike each took the one-hour OBT with the EVA SAFER (Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue) Onboard Trainer, and then checked out their SAFER units for the FD5 spacewalk. FE-6 Fossum performed IFM (In-Flight Maintenance) on the SIGI GPS2 (Space Integrated Global Positioning System/Inertial Navigation System Global Positioning System 2) by removing the failed GPS2 receiver in the Lab, area D2, and replacing it with a new unit.    [The IFM was successful, and the system is tracking satellites.] In the FGB, Sergei Volkov cleared access to the area behind panel 102 by disconnecting BKS cabling at PPS313 (power outlet 313) and removed VD air ducts at the TsV2 fan and the panel 102 flange for taking interior documentary photography and cleaning with the vacuum cleaner.   Ducts and cables were then restored. Afterwards, FE-4 replaced the PS1 & PS2 dust collector filters in the FGB with new spares, discarding the used units and updating the IMS with the BCR (Bar Code Reader), Sergei also took care of the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). FE-1 Samokutyayev conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] In the US A/L (Airlock), Fossum started Round 2 of EVA battery recharging in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly), initiating the process on a new batch involving 4 EHIP (EVA Helmet Interchangeable Portable) light batteries and 2 REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly) batteries (#1007, #1009). In Node-3, Mike also took a sample of pre-treated urine from 2 different Russian EDV-U containers using a Ku-band power supply, after flushing the sample adapter. CDR, FE-1 & FE-4 were scheduled for their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Sasha at ~12:55pm, Andrey at ~1:10pm, Sergei at ~2:10pm EDT. Before “Presleep” period tonight, Garan powers on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starts the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.] The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR, FE-1). No CEO targets uplinked for today. 