07-03-2010July 03, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/03/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – crew rest day.  Crew sleep cycle remains shifted to the right:  Wake – 7:00am (reg. 2:00am), Sleep – 10:30pm (reg. 5:30pm) EDT.  Progress Update:   Progress M-06M/38P will make another rendezvous & docking attempt tomorrow (7/4) for Contact at ~12:17pm EDT.    [During yesterday’s rendezvous, the automated KURS rendezvous sequence was aborted (cause currently under assessment) by the Progress MCS (Motion Control System) between two nominal burns (Impulse-4 & Imp-5).  38P did not perform any abort burns since it was on a passively-safe flyby path from the outset (as per ballistic trajectory design).  The vehicle performed two burns last night (7/2), one at 4:28pm EDT (DO4) of 1.61 m/s delta-V, the other at 5:27pm (DO5) of 4.77 m/s.  A third maneuver is planned for today in order to set up the proper trajectory conditions for tomorrow’s docking attempt, for which ISS will be in the same configuration as for yesterday’s docking (same attitude, same solar array & radiators positions).]   At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   CDR Skvortsov began the day by attending to the current experiment session with the KPT-21 Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall/PK-3+) payload, activating the turbopump in the MRM2 “Poisk” module for keeping the vacuum chamber (EB) evacuated.  The turbopump will be deactivated again before sleeptime, at ~10:25pm EDT.    [Main objective of PK-3 is to study wave propagation and dispersion ratio in a dust plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber, at a specified power of HF discharge, pressure, and a varied number of particles.]   Also at wake-up, FE-4 Wheelock & FE-6 Walker completed another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   FE-6 continued her early-morning session with the Pro K protocol, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.      [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken during the day.]   Additionally, Shannon closed out the 24-hr urine collections for her FD15 (Flight Day 15) Nutrition/Repository/Pro K protocol at ~8:00am and undertook the associated generic blood collection, with FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson assisting with the phlebotomy as operator.  Shannon then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).      [The operational products for Blood & Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]   For her on-going first (FD15) Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment, Shannon observed the initial 10-min rest period before going about her business, changing Makita batteries several times.  Midpoint for the entire ICV run will be reached at ~4:55pm EDT tonight.     [The rest period involved relaxing & breathing normally for 10 minutes under quiet, restful conditions.  ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres/BP to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist & ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Shannon continued the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs (tonight at ~4:55pm), the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]   At ~9:25am, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Later, Fyodor also performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.   On TsUP-Moscow Go, Mikhail Kornienko was to use pressurized O2 from Progress 37P oxygen stores at ~3:25pm to refresh the ISS cabin for about an hour.   FE-4 Doug Wheelock completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) laptops.   Tracy & Doug filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   FE-3, FE-4 & FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Mikhail at ~9:00am, Wheels at ~1:30pm & Shannon at ~12:30pm EDT.   Preparatory to tomorrow’s attitude maneuvering and Progress 38P docking attempt, Wheelock will close the external shutters of the Lab, Kibo & Cupola windows as protection against thruster plume contamination shortly before sleeptime.   The crew is working out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-5).    [T2 currently must undergo a snubber inspection between exercise sessions.]  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Four -- Week 4)  2-D NANO Template (JAXA):    The sample was stowed in MELFI on 6/10, to extend sample life.  The experiment is planned to start in early July.   3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    This ISS backup radiation monitoring system remains non-operational.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.   BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    Returned with 19A.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    “On 6/29, four test points from the science matrix were successfully performed.  Two test points were performed with heptane fuel at a 0.7 atm chamber environment of 23% O2, 25% CO2, and 52% N2:  Test #1 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm, with no support fiber.  Droplet deployment was successful with a brief burn before radiative extinction.  An afterglow from condensing vapor cloud and scattered backlight occurred approximately 30 sec after extinction.  This afterglow phenomenon typically occurs following radiative extinction.  Test #2 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm, with support fiber and translation.  Tethered deployment was successful with a brief burn before radiative extinction. Extinction occurred at “trailing surface” after translation ceased.  Two test points were performed with heptane fuel at a 0.7 atm chamber environment of 21% O2, 30% CO2, and 49% N2:  Test #3 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm, with no support fiber.  Droplet deployment was successful with very little droplet drift.  The burn was very brief before radiative extinction. The afterglow phenomena occurred again similar to Test #1.  Test #4 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm, with support fiber and translation.  Tethered deployment was successful with a brief burn before radiative extinction.  A small amount of residual fuel from previous test was still on the fiber, which caused a brief secondary “ignition flash” that lasted less than 1 sec.  Extinction occurred (similar to Test #2) at “trailing surface.  Radiative Extinction: Flame extinction caused by excessive radiative energy loss from the flame; occurs at relatively larger droplet and flame sizes.”  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    The first 4 of 6 Sample Processing Units (SPUs) have completed their processing, and preliminary data looks good.  The fifth SPU (14,600 second heat soak) is currently in the vacuum vent cycle, and is scheduled to be processed early next week.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Active Measure, ESA):    Monthly data downlink performed on 6/30.  It seems no files from Detector 1 could be found. This is under investigation.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA): (Kids in Space):   “Tracy: We have not been able to review the video from your session on 6/30 yet, but we agree with your assessment that more narration is better than less.  Continue narrating however you're comfortable.  Two more Kids in Micro-G sessions are planned for next week.”   EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   Photo session was performed on 6/14.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    Performed on 5/1 as VolSci.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  Ferulate:    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):  No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):   No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 1245 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    “Shannon and Wheels, The entire team enjoyed participating in your first ICV resting echo scan.  Wheels did a great job as the operator and Shannon’s heart did just what it was supposed to, beat!  Since the experiment requires two sessions pretty early in flight (FD14 & FD30) we will do it again in about a week.  We are looking forward to working with you both as the expedition progresses.”   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Acquiring science data.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    3rd and 4th run were performed on 6/21-23.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE7 is operating nominally.  Some PEC A experiments were turned off on 6/29 to prevent overheating in the current high Beta angle period.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.   MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   No report.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.   NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADIAK:   No report.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):   Dosimeter set-up performed on FD12 of ULF4.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    “Wheels, thank you for performing your PASSAGES session today.  The science team is looking forward to getting the data.”  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    Sample launched by 36P; was recovered by 21S.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “Tracy, Wheels and Shannon, thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test!  The data is downlinked once a month.  We received the data from this past month and look forward to analyzing it!”    SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    CB Cleanup and valve C/O will be performed on 7/2.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Tracy, you are scheduled to start your 5th week of Sleep logging on Monday.  Shannon and Wheels, Monday marks the beginning of your first week of Sleep logging.  Logging will nominally be scheduled every three weeks.  Any additional Sleep logging is above and beyond and greatly appreciated by the PI.  Shannon, next week you will be performing the monthly Actiwatch download of your watch as well as those for Tracy and Wheels.  As this will be your first on-orbit download session, the Sleep EST (Experiment Support Technician) will be available on Console to assist if you have any questions.”  SMILES (JAXA):    SLOC (submillimeter local oscillator controller) troubleshooting is underway.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    Feeder #1 was activated for SOLAR safing prior to 23S relocation and deactivated afterwards.  Next Sun observation window is predicted to start on 7/8.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    “Thanks Wheels, for performing the EPM PCBA S/W Upgrade in preparation for the next SOLO execution.”    Space-DRUMS:    No report.    SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    A SPHERES test session is being planned for July.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Wheels, thank you for completing your first THERMOLAB session on 7/1.”  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):     Acquiring data.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    “Shannon, the science team was very happy with the scans images during your first VESSEL IMAGING session on 6/30.  The USOCs supporting the session were impressed by your very smooth execution!  Big thanks for the kick-off of this new ESA experiment, much appreciated!”   VO2max (NASA):    “Tracy, thank you very much for assisting Wheels today!  We could see on the video that you were a great help to Wheels!  It looks like we have some time for you to help Shannon as well next week.  Thanks again!  Wheels, excellent job on VO2max Thursday!  Thanks for all of your help and input and we appreciate the real-time information the video provided.  The team has received all data on the ground.  Your next session will be scheduled about 30 days from now.”  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   Through 6/29, the ground has received a total of 678 frames of E-24 CEO imagery for review and cataloging.  “No frames were acquired this week with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists.  Please feel free to provide us feedback on anything we can do to help you locate and acquire our targets.  We continue to look forward to seeing more of your CEO imagery.”  Epsilon Aurigae Eclipse Observation:   ISS is participating in a significant astronomical observation program just getting underway, followed by thousands of amateur & professional astronomers: the Epsilon Aurigae Eclipse.   A specific star in the Constellation Auriga (Charioteer) called Epsilon Aurigae undergoes an eclipse (being occulted) every 27.1 years.  This has puzzled astronomers for nearly 200 years.  The eclipse lasts nearly two years which, with the 27.1 year period, means the eclipsing body must be gigantic.  There may be a temporary brightening at mid-eclipse.  There have been no satisfactory explanations to date for this.  Is it a giant cloud of gas with a doughnut-like hole, permitting the star to brighten during mid-eclipse?  The Sun’s proximity to Epsilon Aurigae, as seen from the ground, prevents observations by ground-based astronomers during mid-eclipse, but astronauts on the ISS, having a different aspect angle, can observe and note changes in relative brightness, as suggested by the AAVSO (American Association of Variable Star Observers) following a talk by NASA-Astronaut John Grunsfeld.  The method used by the crew is to compare the brightness of Epsilon Aurigae weekly with three other nearby stars of known & unchanging brightness.   CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Muscat, Oman (the capital city of Oman has a population of just over a million and located on the coast of the Gulf of Oman about 250 miles SE of the Straits of Hormuz.  ISS approach was from the SW over the eastern part of the Arabian Peninsula in clear weather.  Looking nadir at the coast for this target), Epsilon Aurigae & Comet McNaught (looking left of track, above the limb of the Earth to observe the brightness of this star, as compared to other stars in the Auriga constellation, described above), St. Paul Rocks islets, Brazil (HMS Beagle Site:  Darwin and the Beagle briefly visited this isolated, equatorial Atlantic site in early February of 1832.  This tiny group of islets and rocks is also known as the Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago.  The islands are of particular interest to geologists as they expose rocks associated with the Earth's mantle above sea level.  Looking nadir for the islands as ISS approached the area from the SW.  With mid-afternoon light and only partly cloudy skies the crew should have been able to photograph all of them in a mapping pass), Nouakchott, Mauritania (the Mauritanian capital is located just inland from the Atlantic and has a rapidly growing population estimated at 2 million.  Despite its size, the city is a low-contrast target and may be difficult to spot, particularly if the air is dusty, as it often is.  Looking for the city as ISS approached the coast from the SW.  It should have been at nadir, in late afternoon light, and under fair skies), Lake Poopo, Bolivia (lake levels in Poopo are generally affected by El Niño episodes with water levels declining during ENSO [El Niño Southern Oscillation] events.  ISS imagery will also add to existing CEO time series imagery of the fluctuations of lake levels in Poopo.  Reviewing of most recent ISS imagery of Lake Poopo shows that researchers would like to continue to ask for additional views of this target area.  On this early afternoon pass the lake was at nadir under clear skies.  Contextual views of this were requested), Basseterre, St. Kitts and Nevis (ISS had a near nadir pass over the capital city of Basseterre located in the extreme northeastern Caribbean Sea.  ISS approach was from the SW in mid-afternoon light with partly cloudy skies.  The city is located on the southwestern coast of Saint Kitts Island, and is one of the oldest towns in the eastern Caribbean region.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), and Epsilon Aurigae & Comet McNaught.)    