
NRAL Trash Deploy: On Saturday, the Flight Control Team performed the first trash deploy utilizing the Nanoracks Airlock (NRAL). The deploy demonstrated the trash deployment capability by executing the jettison of a disposable bag containing approximately 26.5 CTBE (78.1 kg) of dry common trash. The Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) grappled NRAL and demated NRAL from the Node 3 Port. Ground teams maneuvered the NRAL to the deploy position and applied power via the SSRMS to jettison the trash bag. The ground teams successfully jettisoned the NRAL trash bag at 7:05 PM CT and the NRAL was maneuvered back to the Node 3 Port for berthing.
Payloads:
Grip: The crew reviewed the big picture words, set up the experiment hardware, and performed the first day of the experiment session. The Grip experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): The UNIGLO fiber optic hardware was installed in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) in preparation for science operations later this week. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Systems:
Nanoracks Airlock (NRAL) Activities: Several NRAL activities were completed following the successful NRAL Trash Deploy over the weekend. The crew performed Pressure Management Device (PMD) and Vacuum Access Jumper (VAJ) equipment teardown following PMD ground commanding, including the Node 3 Port NRAL re-pressurization and leak check. The Node 3 Port vestibule was configured and required hardware was installed, and the Nanoracks Waste Disposal hardware was then removed from inside NRAL. The NRAL Power Distribution Unit (PDU) was removed and replaced (R&Red), and the Node 3 port Endcone and NRAL stowage items were replaced. 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Monthly Inspection: As part of regular maintenance to ensure the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition, the crew inspected all four Snubber Arms for any sign of free play as well as make any necessary adjustments to reduce the free play. The crew also performed additional inspections on all tape and witness markings on T2 Thumbwheels, Snubber Jam Nuts, ad Snubber Cup Housing, inspected the Snubber pin position within the Snubber Cups, and Sorbothane residue on Snubber Pins. 
ISS Safety Video: A video survey of the ISS was performed for ground analysis. The crew obtained video of the interior volume that allows the ground team to assess the current vehicle configuration and to identify any areas of concern related to ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, emergency egress paths, access to fire ports, and safety equipment. The Safety Video Survey is performed approximately every six months.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the Urine Transfer System (UTS).
Completed Task List Activities:

EarthKAM Node 2 Shutdown, Disconnect and Stow
SSC 11 Hard Drive Swap

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

NRAL Depressurization Teardown Support
NRAL Ops and Checkout
MT Translation
EHDC Checkout

