
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  The crew completed injections of half of the RR-5 mice remaining on the ISS in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and performed bone densitometer scans of each of those mice. Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight.The Bone Densitometer device measures the density of minerals in bone. Quantitative measures of bone loss in mice during orbital space flight provide data for the development of countermeasures for human crewmembers, as well as for bone-loss syndromes on Earth. 
S-Band String 2 Space to Ground (S/G)-2 Audio Troubleshooting: Ground teams performed troubleshooting steps for distorted S/G-2 downlink voice experienced while on S-Band String 2. The distortion was first observed last Wednesday, June 28th.  Since then, ground teams performed various troubleshooting steps to isolate the problem to String 2 of the S-Band System. Today’s troubleshooting focused on the S-Band Baseband Signal Processor (BSP)-2.  BSP-2 built in tests were executed without errors followed by a power cycle of the unit and a repeat of S/G-2 communication checks. The distortion was no longer present after the power cycle.  S-Band String 2 remains the active string.     
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

50S Samsung Tablet Battery Status Check and Recharge (if it is less than 80% charged)
Nikon Camera Time Synch with Station Time
Test Video Recording for Russia Today TV Channel
VIZIR. SM Panels 114 and 116 Outfitting for CКПФ-УМ Payload
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
РСПИ. Deletion of Files from Onboard Memory Device (БЗУ)
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
RADIOSCAF. Танюша-ЮЗГУ-1 Nanosatellite Deactivation
Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Cartridge Ф2 (start)
Water Transfer from Progress 67P (SM Aft) Rodnik Water Tank БВ2 into SM Rodnik Water Tank БВ2 Water Conditioning Unit (БКВ) Purification Column (БК) and [CРВК-2М] Hoses R&R
Countermeasures System (CMS) Heart Rate Monitor (HRM) iPad Downlink
Water Conditioning Unit (БКВ) Purification Column (БК) and [CРВК-2М] Hoses R&R
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Rodent Research Injection and Bone Densitometer 1B
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 4
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 6
Rodent Research Injection and Bone Densitometer 1A
Central Post Laptop Monthly Routine Maintenance
Copying of Log Files from Central Post Laptop after Monthly Routine Maintenance
Rodent Research Bone Densitometer Scans
Progress 67P (SM Aft) Water Tank Bladder Compression
Rodent Research Injection and Bone Densitometer 1B
Water Conditioning Unit (БКВ) Purification Column (БК) and [CРВК-2М] Hoses R&R
Rodent Research Injection and Bone Densitometer 1B
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 6
Rodent Research Injection and Bone Densitometer 2A
[СРВК-2М] Water Conditioning Unit (БКВ) Flush (start)
Rodent Research Bone Densitometer Stow
Rodent Research Injection and Bone Densitometer 1B
Reconfigure LAB camcorder and Dual Canon Li-Ion Battery Charger to nominal config
Progress 67P (SM Aft) Water Tank Bladder Compression – Closeout Operations
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Nitrogen Manual Valve Open
RADIOSCAF. Танюша-ЮЗГУ-1 Nanosatellite Activation
Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Cartridge Ф2

Completed Task List Items

Photos of the EMCS HV20 Handle, the valve, and surrounding area

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Rodent Research ops support
S-Band String 2 S/G2 audio troubleshooting

