
62 Progress (62P) Undock: 62 Progress (62P) Undock: 62P is scheduled to undock from Docking Compartment (DC) 1 tomorrow, July 2 at 10:48PM CDT. This morning, a test was performed on the TORU manual docking system when the Progress undocked from the ISS, backed to a distance of approximately 600 feet, and re-docked under manual control by the crew.
3D Printing in Zero-G Experiment Operations: After successfully printing calibration and compression coupons in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) earlier this week, today the ground team remotely operated the 3D printer to produce another 3D printed test coupon, concluding 3D printer operations for the week. 3D printer operations will resume next week. The 3D Printing In Zero-G experiment demonstrates that a 3D printer works normally in space. In general, a 3D printer extrudes streams of heated plastic, metal or other material, building layer on top of layer to create 3 dimensional objects. Testing a 3D printer using relatively low-temperature plastic feedstock on the International Space Station is the first step towards establishing an on-demand machine shop in space, a critical enabling component for deep-space crewed missions and in-space manufacturing.
Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack-3 Laptop Computer (ELC) Operations: The Common Software Release 10 was successfully installed on the EXPRESS Rack-3 Laptop in preparation for European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) maintenance activities scheduled next week.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the International Space Station. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED): The crew completed this regularly scheduled quarterly maintenance to inspect the x-rotation dashpots, cycle the main arm through full range of motion, and grease the Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (VIS) rails and rollers. 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Acoustic Blanket Installation: The crew installed four acoustic blankets around T2 in an effort to reduce noise levels in Node 3. Sound Level Meter (SLM) measurements were taken before, during and after installation of the blankets to verify the technology works as designed. 
Global Position System (GPS) Receiver/Processor 1 (GPS R/P 1) Ring Laser Gyro (RLG) Failure –  On June 30th, during the OPM attitude maneuver to –XVV for the 62P TORU Test, the flight control team noted that the Space Integrated Global Positioning System/ Inertial Navigation System (SIGI)1 INS Y-channel (ISS Z-axis) rate differences were not tracking with those of the SIGI2 INS.  SIGI1 INS Y-channel (ISS Z-axis) rate gyro appears to be failed. The GPS systems within both SIGIs continue to output good attitude and state measurements.  Both the US GN&C attitude determination (AD) and state determination (SD) systems are behaving nominally and are not reliant on the performance of the ring laser gyros within either of the SIGIs. GNC is considered to be in a stable configuration. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Closing Window Shutters 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14
СОЖ Maintenance
MPEG2 Multicast Test via Ku-band
Activation of MPEG2 Multicast TV Monitoring
Progress 431 Undocking and Re-docking to DC1 in TORU r/g 2680
On MCC GO Activation of mpeg2 multicast video recording mode
Close Applications and Downlink MPEG2 Multicast Video via OCA
Progress 432 [AO] Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 1812, 1832
Comm reconfig for nominal ops / Communications System
Progress 432 [AO] Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 1812, 1832
ISS crew and ГОГУ r/g 2662
3DP Printed Coupon Removal and Stowage
JEM System Laptop Terminal Reboot
HAM radio session from Columbus
CMS ARED Quarterly Maintenance
Earth photo/video ops / r/g 2682
Progress 432 [AO] Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 1812, 1832
TReK Laptop Reconfig
WRS Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
OTKLIK. Sensor functional test and point of impact accuracy check (Part 2) r/g 2681
EXPRESS-3 Laptop Computer (ELC) CLS 10 load
Insert SNFM DVD into EXPRESS Rack Laptop
47S Crew SSC Laptops, Wireless connection configuration
IMS Delta File Prep
Food Frequency Questionnaire
HABIT Conference
HABIT Camcorder Setup
T2 Installation of Acoustic Blanket and T2 SLM Measurements in Node 3
Sound Level Meter (SLM) Setup and Operations in Node 3, Airlock, Node 2 and FGB
SLM data transfer
HABIT Task Video End
USOS Window Shutter Close
Remove SNFM DVD from EXPRESS Rack Laptop

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

TORU test
Nominal ground commanding 

