
Rodent Research-7 (RR-7): Yesterday the crew transferred the mice from the Transporter Units that arrived on the SpaceX-15 Dragon vehicle to the two Habitat units in which they will reside on ISS. They checked the water flow in each side of the Habitats and installed the rodent huts and food bars. The crew also stowed fecal pellets and food bar/Habitat swabs in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The RR-7 investigation examines how the space environment affects the community of microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract of mice (also known as the microbiota). It also looks at microgravity’s effects on multiple physiological systems known to be affected by the microbiota, including the gastrointestinal, immune, metabolic, circadian, and sleep systems. These studies should help explain mechanisms underlying interactions between these systems and the role of the microbiota in these interactions. 
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems (STaARS) BioScience-8: This morning the crew installed the BioScience-8 Experiment Containers in the STaARS facility and powered on the facility.  Later the crew removed those Containers and inserted them into a MELFI. The high sensitivity of immune cells to gravitational changes makes them ideal models for understanding the role Earth’s gravity plays in normal mammalian cell function. Parallel studies of cells in microgravity and on the ground help identify the primary cellular and molecular mechanisms, including regulation of gene expression, behind effects of altered gravity. 
NanoRacks Module-9: The crew deactivated or shook designated mixture tubes for the NanoRacks Module-9 investigation today. The experiments contained in these tubes support a variety of experiments sponsored by the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP) National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE). The student-designed experiments address real challenges of living and working in space. The program is also a key initiative for US science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education, educating and inspiring the next generation of scientists and engineers to work on the space program. Findings from student experiments may contribute to future experiments that benefit the space program. The tubes handled today support the following investigations: 

The Effects of Microgravity on Polyethylene Glycol Methacrylate (PGMA) based Self-Assembly and Impacts on Drug Delivery Systems
Effects of Microgravity on Soybean Germination
Would Lactuca sativa variety capitata Seeds Germinate in Microgravity?
Growing Solanum tuberosum in Microgravity
The Effect of Microgravity on the Germination of Apium graveolens
The Effect of Microgravity on Wheat Germination
Rust in Microgravity
The Effect of Microgravity on the Growth of Golden Lake Artemia
The Brine Shrimp
The Effect of Microgravity on Spider Plant Seed Germination
Can Yarrow germinate in microgravity?
Long Diffusion and Kidney Stones, No More!

International Commercial Experiment (ICE) Cubes Facility (ICF): Today the crew installed two Cubes in the ICE Cubes Facility.  New batches of Experiment Cubes are regularly uploaded to the ISS.  The ICF provides a simplified, low-cost access service to the ISS for commercial entities.  It supports investigations contained in individual experiment Cubes. 
Angiex Cancer Therapy:  Today the crew performed microscope operations for AngieX Cancer Therapy samples that arrived on the SpaceX-15 Dragon vehicle. The Payload Developer provided assistance via live high definition video. They then completed an operations session. The Angiex Cancer Therapy investigation examines whether endothelial cells cultured in microgravity represent a valid in vitro model to test effects of vascular-targeted agents on normal blood vessels. Angiex has developed a treatment that targets both tumor cells and vasculature, but needs a better model on which to test it. This study may facilitate development of a cost-effective method that does not require animal testing and which may help develop safer and more effective vascular-targeted drugs.
MagVector 3D: The crew exchanged a MagVector 3D sample today. A total of 12 different samples will be processed on the ISS (1 per day). ESA’s MagVector investigation supports a study of how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research is expected to help improve future ISS experiments and electrical experiments, and could also offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general. 
Probiotics: Today a crewmember collected saliva samples and stowed them in a MELFI. He also completed a questionnaire. Some species of harmful bacteria such as Salmonella grow stronger and more virulent in the microgravity environment of space. At the same time, the human immune system is weaker in space, leading to increased health risks. The objective of the Probiotics investigation is to study the impact of continuous consumption of beneficial bacteria (probiotics) on immune function and intestinal microbiota in astronauts in a closed microgravity environment. The results of this investigation may be used to support improvements in crew members’ intestinal microbiota and their immune function on long-duration space missions. 
Team Task Switching (TTS):  A crewmember completed a TTS survey today.  When crew members are often required to switch their attention between tasks, performance on each of the tasks can be affected.  The objective of the TTS investigation is to gain knowledge about whether or not crew members have difficulty in switching tasks and determine the impacts of these switches, in order to both reduce any negative consequences and improve individual and team motivation and effectiveness. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub and Conductivity Test: Earlier today, the crew initiated a 90-day maintenance loop scrub and iodination for EMUs 3004 and 3008. After a one-hour timer expired, the crew took samples of the EMU Cooling Loop water. The crew iodinated the Ion Filter for stowage and initiated EMU iodination for EMU 3004 and 3008. Two hours after initiating the EMU iodination the crew terminated it and deconfigured the EMU hardware. This is the first use of the newly installed Umbilical Interface Assembly (UIA).
Crew Active Dosimeter (CAD) Tech Demonstration: The crew deployed five CAD tech demo ensembles and two CAD Universal Serial Bus (USB) Bluetooth dongles. This new hardware was developed to replace the currently used Crew Passive Dosimeters (CPDs) measuring crew radiation exposure.  The tech demo will compare the measurements of CADs to other radiation detectors (CPDs and Rad Detector); confirm that no operational impairment arises for crew while wearing CADs; and verify a hands-free, autonomous data transfer architecture from device to ground.  Three ensembles were deployed to US crew, one ensemble was attached to the Rad Detector with Kapton tape, and one ensemble will be left in the launch ziplock bag and stowed in the Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) Resupply Stowage Rack (RSR).  The USB dongles were plugged into two Station Support Computers (SSCs) (one in Node 1 and one in Node 2), to allow for Bluetooth data transfer to the OpsLAN with no crew interaction.  These items were delivered and will return on the SpaceX-15 Dragon vehicle.
Emergency Health Maintenance System (HMS) Contingency Drill Training: Today the 55S crew performed onboard training to review procedures, hardware and communication methods necessary to manage a medical emergency onboard ISS. Emergency medical equipment was deployed and the crew practiced CPR positioning to ensure familiarity with procedure execution should a medical emergency occur. 
Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew completed several hours of Dragon unpack.  Ground specialists estimate the crew will need another 20 hours to complete the unpacking.  
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: This afternoon ground specialists will use the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to extract the ECOsystem Spaceborne Thermal Radiometer Experiment on Space Station (ECOSTRSS) payload from the Dragon Trunk. Once complete, they will maneuver and transfer the payload to the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) for installation into Exposed Facility Unit (EFU)#10. 
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry Subject
Probiotics Saliva Operations
Probiotics Salive Sample MELFI Insertion
Probiotics Question
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems BioScience-8 Experiment Container Installation
PHASE TRANSITION. Experiment Setup and Performance.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Respiratory Support Pack (RSP) Pen and Ink and Stowage Update
CHeCS Emergency Health Maintenance System Contingency Drill Training
Soyuz #738 IRIDIUM Charge
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap
ExtraVehicular Activity Umbilical Interface Assembly Biocide Filter Assembly Remove and Replace
Dragon Locker Removal
MagVector File Transfer
Soyuz #739 IRIDIUM Charge – Start the Charge
Relocation of ESA items from Node2 to Columbus
Comm Config from MRM1
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub Initiation
Stowage Locker Prep for Return
SEPARATION. Recover the Functionality of RS Urine Water Regeneration System [СРВ-У].
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Soyuz #739 IRIDIUM Charge – Stop the Charge, Teardown
Rodent Research Transporter Stow
UDOD. Experiment Ops with DYKHANIYE-1 and SPRUT-2 Sets
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Wanted Poster for Bulb Blower
UDOD. Photography during the Experiment
PHASE TRANSITION. Closeout Operations.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Wipe Post Mouse Stress Defense
SEPARATION. Recover the Functionality of RS Urine Water Regeneration System [СРВ-У].
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Post Scrub Cooling Loop Water (H2O) Sample
Probiotics Item Gathering
Team Task Switching Experiment Survey Subject
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Iodination
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems BioScience-8 Experiment Container Removal
Team Task Switching Experiment Survey Subject [Cancelled]
Restore Nominal Comm Config
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Conductivity Test
BioScience-8 MELFI Experiment Container Insertion
Cardiovascular System Evaluation during Graded Exercises on the Cycle Ergometer (VELO).
Wireless Compose Big Picture Words Reading
Wireless Compose Tagmotes Don
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfiguration
AngieX Cancer Therapy Microscope Operations
Biolab Glovebox Health Check
Recycle Tank Drain Initiation
Install Updated Software on RSS1 to Downlink BRI Log Files
Clean the Ventilation Screens on the FGB Interior Panels (panels 116, 316, 231, 431)
СОЖ maintenance
Wireless Compose Tagmotes Doff
Environmental Health System (EHS) Crew Active Dosimeter Demo
Wireless Compose SD Card Data Copy
MPCC Cable Installation
Recycle Tank Drain Termination
CALCIUM. Experiment Session #10
Cargo Transfer to Dragon
Columbus Video Camera Assembly 2 Adjustment
EPM Rack Power Switch off
AngieX Cancer Therapy Ops Session
Installation of Cubes #2 and #3 in the ICE Cubes Facility
EPM Rack Power Switch on
Columbus cleanup for Myotones
Stow Syringes used in H2O Conductivity Test
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
Myotones Kit Gathering
Cold Stowage Double Coldbag Icebrick Stow
Dragon Locker Removal
MELFI Sample Return Bag Insertion
On-Board Training (OBT) Dragon Emergency Review
NanoRacks Module 9 Ops Session 2
Robotics Proficiency [Cancelled]
MOTOKARD. GoPro battery charge
Micro-11 Glacier Sample Removal 1
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference 

Completed Task List Activities:

None 

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


MSS Operations – ECOSTRESS Extract and Install
N3 CDRA Blower Test
Lab CDRA command to standby

