07-04-2011July 04, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/04/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Underway: Week 16 of Increment 27/28.    U.S. Independence Day. FE-5 Furukawa & FE-6 Fossum undertook their 4th weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures session, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.  The required ~10h fast period started for them last night.  This is usually done on Mondays.       [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.]  FE-3 Garan performed the monthly inspection of the T2/COLBERT treadmill system and its components, checking pin alignment, rack centering and the snubber jam nut witness marks.  Today’s inspection particularly focused on VIS (Vibration Isolation System) corner hardware witness marks and the damaged rack composite for signs of additional wear.     [Witness marks (12 total) are applied to the X-, Y- & Z-axis jam nuts on each (of four) snubber arm.  Their inspection serves to determine to what degree and which jam nuts are backing off.] Mike Fossum completed the periodic maintenance on the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), inspecting the exercise rope knot for fraying or damage in rope or rope strands as well as performing the periodic evacuation of its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition & sensor calibration.      [Knot can be loosened as needed to aid in the inspection.  Areas of concern are those with the tightest diameters (i.e. sections of rope contacting the French Clip).  If damage is found, Mike was to photo document it and notify MCC-Houston.] With the TVIS treadmill currently stowed in temporary configuration, FE-4 Volkov used the opportunity to remove the TVIS rear deck assembly from the aft section to check for FOD (Foreign Object/Debris), then replaced the deck.     [If any debris was found, Sergei was to photograph and capture it in a Ziploc bag for ULF7 return and ground analysis.]  FE-1 Samokutyayev conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Before sleeptime, CDR Borisenko will initiate overnight (10-hr) charging of the KPT-2 Piren battery for the Piren-V Pyro-endoscope, part of the Russian BAR science instruments suite (other BAR components being the ТТМ-2 Anemometer-Thermometer, the charger cable, and the video display unit).      [Piren-V, a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, is part of the methods & means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.] At ~7:00am EDT, Andrey, Sasha & Sergei supported a Russian PAO TV event, downlinking messages of greetings to two events – (1) a charity concert to be conducted on July 9 &10 by the “Federation” Charity Fund and Moscow Administration to benefit children with oncological and ophthalmological diseases, taking place at Vorobievy Gory stage, with the attendance of representatives of various companies and by cultural workers of Russia and abroad, and (2) high school graduates and graduates of Baltic State Technical University VOENMEKH named after D.F. Ustinov. The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3, FE-4, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-4). Jobs remaining on the voluntary “Job Jar” task list for the USOS crew Fossum, Garan & Furukawa at their discretion were –Unpacking Progress 42P,Unpacking Progress 43P,Prepacking BXF (Boiling eXperiment Facility) hardware for return,Searching for ERB (Erasmus Recording Binocular) grounding strap,Removing & replacing failed LHA (Lamp Housing Assembly) in Node-1,Cleaning & lubricating PWD BA (Potable Water Dispenser Beverage Adapter), andReplacing WHC KTO (Waste & Hygiene Compartment Solid Waste Container). The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for the RS crew Samokutyayev, Borisenko & Volkov showed for today the preparation & downlinking of more reportages (text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb). No CEO targets uplinked for today. 