
ISSpresso: Kelly performed troubleshooting on the ISSpresso.  He was instructed to remove a deformed capsule lodged in the chamber and proceed with a nominal brewing.  The ISSpresso machine is a technical demonstration experiment that has the capability to provide hot beverages including espresso and still maintain the crema when dispensed in space.
Capillary Effects of Drinking in the Microgravity Environment (Capillary Beverage): Microgravity affects the way fluids behave, and as such, crew members must drink from special sealed bags instead of using straws or normal cups. Capillary Beverage studies the process of drinking from specially designed Space Cups that use fluid dynamics to mimic the effect of gravity. In this instance of Capillary Beverage, Kelly used Black Kona Coffee to demonstrate how a complex fluid reacts to the cup’s special designs in an attempt to mimic the gravitational flow of a liquid through capillary forces. High definition video was used to capture the data and will be analyzed on the ground.
Journals: Kelly authored a Journal entry today in support of the Behavioral Issues Associated with Isolation and Confinement: Review and Analysis of Astronaut Journals experiment.  Journals provides information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures and sustained human performance during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information to help prepare for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
Habitability: Kelly is scheduled to use the iShort tablet application to capture observations regarding the habitability onboard the ISS. Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations such as Near Earth Asteroids (NEA) and Mars. The ultimate goal is to understand how much habitable volume is required for vehicle internal design and layout, and if mission duration impacts the volume needed. Observations during the 1-year mission, as well as 6-month missions, can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need. The iShort application will enable ground support teams and human factor engineers to study and evaluate the design of the ISS and use these results for future spacecraft.
Rodent Research Inventory: Kelly continued his review of on-orbit consumables and hardware required for Rodent Research operations.  The information gathered during this inventory is being used to determine what cargo is required for future manifests to support Rodent Research.  Following the loss of SpaceX-7, upmass availability is at a premium and this data point will provide ground teams with the knowledge of what is required to fly to the ISS while minimizing duplication.
Acoustic Dosimeter Operations: Kelly set up the Acoustic Dosimeter to take sound measurements on the ISS. For crew-worn sessions the dosimeter was donned directly after crew wake and will be worn for 24 hours after which measurements will be recorded. For static deploy sessions, dosimeters will be deployed in the Node 3 and Cupola for approximately 24 hours.
Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Console Checkout: Kelly completed  a checkout of the JEMRMS Console.  During the checkout the Camera Control Panel (CCP), Remote Interface Panel (RIP), RMS monitor and hand controllers were activated. This activity is in preparation for HTV5 operations planned in August.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Inspecting RS Structural Elements Shell Surfaces using МВП-2К device. / r/g 9204, 9218
Audio Dosimeter Preparation
JEMRMS – Final Activation before JEMRMS console checkout
ISSpresso Brewing
VIZIR. Battery charge preparation and initiation / r/g 9217
JEMRMS – Console checkout
JEMRMS – Deactivation preparation after JEMRMS checkout
Capillary Beverage MWA Preparation
Capillary Beverage P/L Deployment
SM Ventilation System Preventive Maintenance r/g 8393
Capillary Beverage Test Operations
Data prep on monitoring RSOS structural surfaces for downlink / r/g 9204
UDOD. Experiment ops using DYKNANIYE-1 and SPRUT-2 sets. / r/g 9210
Capillary Beverage Stowage
Journal – Survey Completion
Habitability And Human Factors.  Observations Subject.
Node 2 Nadir hatch reconfig to nominal, fully latched configuration
LAB and Cupola Display and Control Panel (DCP) Powerdown
Audit Life Science Hardware stowed in the COL AFT locations.
VIZIR. Battery Charge / r/g 9217
IMS Delta File Prep
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. HAM Radio Session / r/g 9211
Stow Earlier Installed Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK)
VZAIMODEISTVIYE-2. Experiment Ops / r/g 9213
Vacuum Pressure Gauge Accuracy Check / r/g 9212
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
VIZIR. Battery Charge 

Completed Task List Items

None 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


METEON commanding
JEMRMS ops
OASIS video

