
Progress (70P) Launch/Dock: 70P launched from the Baiknour Cosmodrome today at 4:51pm CDT. Following a 2-orbit rendezvous profile, the vehicle will dock to ISS at 8:39pm CDT. 
SpX-15 External Cargo Status: Friday evening ground specialists used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to remove the empty Latching End Effector (LEE) Flight Support Equipment (FSE) from External Stowage Platform (ESP)-2 and extracted the Launch on Need (LON) LEE from the Dragon trunk and installed it at ESP-2. Yesterday, ground specialists used the SSRMS to stow the empty LEE FSE into the Dragon trunk. They then stowed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to the Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF)-1. 
Dragon Cargo Operations: Today the crew spent 4:55 unpacking and stowing cargo from the Dragon vehicle.  Specialists estimate 12:15 minutes remain to complete the first Dragon Cargo Message; cargo operations will continue throughout the remainder of the week.
AngieX Cancer Therapy:  Today the crew performed microscope operations for AngieX Cancer Therapy samples that arrived on the SpaceX-15. They then completed an operations session.  The AngieX Cancer Therapy investigation examines whether endothelial cells cultured in microgravity represent a valid in vitromodel to test effects of vascular-targeted agents on normal blood vessels. AngieX has developed a treatment that targets both tumor cells and vasculature, but needs a better model on which to test it. This study may facilitate development of a cost-effective method that does not require animal testing and which may help develop safer and more effective vascular-targeted drugs. 
Plant Habitat-1:  Today the crew performed readings with a Fluorpen and photographed the inside of the Growth Chamber. The planned 4-week harvest of theArabidopsis plants has been cancelled to allow for additional growth of the plants prior to the final harvest. The Plant Habitat-1 investigation compares differences in genetics, metabolism, photosynthesis, and gravity sensing between plants grown in space and on Earth.   
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS):  The crew transferred a MICS ampoule kit to the ISS Portable Glovebag, broke two ampoules in each sample bag and mixed the contents in the ampoules with a spatula. They then returned each sample bag to the kit bag, which was stowed for return. A total of eight MICS sessions are planned. The MICS investigation supports the evaluation of microstructure and material properties of benchmark cement samples.  Different responses to thermal and mechanical loading are expected and will be characterized in detail.  Positive attributes found in the hardening process due to the microgravity environment aboard the ISS will be reported with the intent of improving Earth-based cement and concrete processing. 
Atomization:  The crew replaced sample syringes for the Atomization investigation today. The Atomization experiment investigates the disintegration processes of a low-speed water jet for various jet issue conditions in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to validate the new atomization concept by observing the process using a high-speed camera. The knowledge gained can be applied to improve various engines utilizing spray combustion.
Aerosol Samplers: Today the crew had planned to install Active Aerosol Sampler (AAS) cartridges in Nodes 1 and 2 but there was an issue with the user interface that prevented their installation.  Ground teams are investigating. The battery-powered AASs actively pull in air and collect particles using the principal of thermophoresis. This is accomplished by flowing the sampled air through a large thermal gradient in a narrow channel.  During this process, particles are driven to the cold side of the channel, where an electron microscope (EM) grid is held in place by a tiny magnet. When returned to Earth, these grids are easily removed and placed directly in an EM for analysis.
Human Research Program (Biochemical Profile and Repository):  A 55S crewmember collected Flight Day (FD) 30 blood and urine samples for the Biochem Profile and Repository investigations.

The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. The repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Vision Testing:  Two crewmembers performed eye exams using the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Laptop and completed a vision questionnaire.  One crewmember, assisted by the Crew Medical Officer, conducted a tonometry exam.  Periodic eye exams are critical for monitoring crew health.
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


HRF Generic Urine Collection
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection
Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Configuration
Activation of the European IP Communication Laptop
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Spin Conclude
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Atomization syringe replacement 2
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
Voice check in S/G1 from Baikonur.
[БВН] grid cleaning in Soyuz 739
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
Cargo Transfer from Dragon
BIOPLENKA. Cryogem-03 Installation
Vacuum cleaning of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in MRM2
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test
Flushing Progress 438 (SM Aft) Rodnik Water Tank (БВ) 1 Water Connector [В2]
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Questionnaire
[БВН] grid cleaning in Soyuz 738
HRF Generic Urine Collection Stow
MRM1 Fan Screen Cleaning (group B)
FAZOPEREKHOD. Experiment Setup and Start Ops.
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Analysis T+7
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Questionnaire
MELFI Fixative Bag Retrieve
СОЖ Maintenance
MELFI Trypsin Kit Retrieve
Aerosol Samplers Charger Connection
Aerosol Samplers Battery Charge
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
Biomolecule Sequencer Software Update
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config JEM Setup
FGB (ГА) Vacuum Cleaning
Checking БД-2 treadmill carriage position.
HMS Tonometry Test Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
HMS Tonometry Test
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Cargo Transfer from Dragon
Plant Habitat-01 Harvest #1 Hardware Gather
Plant Habitat-01 Harvest #1 Procedure Review
FAZOPEREKHOD. Closeout Ops.
AngieX Cancer Therapy Microscope Operations
JEM Dragon15 Stowage Reconfiguration
Plant Habitat-01 Door Removal
Made in Space Fiber Optics Troubleshooting [Aborted]
Aerosol Active Samplers Hardware Deployment
Aerosol Active Samplers Hardware Photography
Plant Habitat-01 Plant Harvest
MELFI Sample Return Bag Insertion
AngieX Cancer Therapy Ops Session
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS) Preparation
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS)  2 Ampoule Mix Ops
Micro-11 Glacier Sample Removal 1
Columbus cabin restore after Myotones experiment
Crew inspects ACE-M2 Samples
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
MELFI Fixative Return Bag Insertion
Japan Aerospace eXploration Agency Generic Frozen Blood Collection Setup
MELFI BioCell Habitat Insertion
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
ISS HAM Radio Power Down in Columbus
ISS HAM Radio Power Down in Service Module
USOS Window Shutter Close

Completed Task List Activities:

KTO R&R [Completed GMT 188]
Record Kraftwerk script [Completed GMT 189]

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

AngieX support
MICS support
Plant Habitat support

