
Payloads:
Astrobee: The Astrobee systems were powered on and stowage in the area cleared away to allow the performance of free-flight maneuvers. This type of activity is commonly called “crew minimal” and the goal is for the ground to command the Astrobee experiment systems to complete the session objectives with minimal crew involvement. Astrobee is made up of free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
Fluid Science Laboratory/Soft Matter Dynamics (FSL/SMD): The crew remated two connectors associated with the SMD experiment insert. SMD currently has Foam Coarsening and Particle STAbilised Emulsions and Foams (PASTA) samples installed. Foam Coarsening looks at bubble size and rearrangement dynamics for “wet foams”, while the PASTA project aims to study the dynamics of droplets and their size evolution in emulsions.
Hicari-2: The crew gained access to the Gradient Heating Furnace (GHF), removed the Hicari-2 sample from its sample cartridge, and prepared it for later return to the ground. The materials science investigation Growth of Homogeneous SiGe Crystals in Microgravity by the Travelling Liquidous Zone (TLZ) Method (Hicari-2) aims to verify the crystal-growth by the TLZ method and to produce high-quality crystals of Silicon-Germanium (SiGe) semiconductor using the JEM-GHF. Once this method is established, it is expected to be applied for developing more efficient solar cells and semiconductor-based electronics.
Protein Crystallization Research Facility (PCRF): In support of the PCRF periodic maintenance activities, the crew relocated the three maintenance units from locations 1, 5, 6 to locations 2, 3, 4. The PCRF is a JAXA subrack facility which investigates protein crystal growth in microgravity. PCRF is housed in the Ryutai (fluid) Experiment Rack, along with the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF), Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF), and the Image Processing Unit (IPU).
Zero T2:  An Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) exercise session was performed on the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED). Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, and aerobic rowing and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill there is no means of ambulating or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking and therefore the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of no treadmill usage during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance, which is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Systems:
Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory (EEPROM) Refreshes: Today, the crew successfully performed the EEPROM Refresh on the two remaining spare MDMs (internal MDM 10 and 16) using the MDM On-Orbit Tester (MOOT). The MOOT is a collection of hardware and software that is used to perform testing and software changes to an uninstalled MDM.
Node 1 and Node 2 Photo Survey: In preparation for the eventual Pressurized Mating Adapter 2 (PMA-2) relocation to support the Axiom Commercial Segment, the crew performed a survey at three locations (Node 1 Forward, Node 1 Midbay, & Node 2 Midbay).
Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: As part of Station’s standard system health monitoring, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through ventilation inlets and outlets in throughout USOS modules (Airlock, Node 1, 2, & 3, Cupola, NRAL, LAB). The IMV system circulates air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that ideal atmospheric condition is maintained throughout ISS.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

IPA FSE maneuver to Jettison Commanding
IPA Release Commanding
ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain Support

