
47 Soyuz (47S) Launch: 47S launched successfully at 8:36PM CDT from the Baikonur Cosmodrome with Expedition 48 crew members Anatoly Ivanishin, Takuya Onishi and Kate Rubins on board. Docking is scheduled Friday at 11:12PM CDT. With this crew’s arrival, the ISS will be in 6-crew operations until 46S return on September 6.
3D Printing in Zero-G Experiment Operations: The ground team remotely operated the 3D printer to produce three more 3D printed test coupons in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), after which the crew removed and stowed them. The 3D Printing In Zero-G experiment demonstrates that a 3D printer works normally in space. A 3D printer extrudes streams of heated plastic, metal or other material, building layer on top of layer to create 3 dimensional objects. Testing a 3D printer using relatively low-temperature plastic feedstock on the ISS is the first step toward establishing an on-demand machine shop in space, a critical enabling component for deep-space crewed missions and in-space manufacturing.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): After retrieving the RaDI-N hardware from Russian crewmembers, the USOS crewmember deployed all 8 Space Bubble Detectors around the ISS for the Radi-N2 experiment. The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) RaDI-N investigation measures neutron radiation levels on the ISS. RaDI-N uses bubble detectors as neutron monitors which have been designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Gas Valve Open and Water Pump Tube Installation: In preparation for the arrival of the Plant Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) Regulation experiment on SpaceX-9, the EMCS gas valves were opened and three water pump tubes on each of the four Rotor Based Life Support System (RBLSS) modules were installed, for a total of twelve water pump tube installs. The EMCS is a European Space Agency (ESA) experiment facility that is dedicated to studying plant biology in a reduced gravity environment. It supports the cultivation, stimulation, and crew-assisted operation of biological experiments under controlled conditions (e.g. temperature, atmospheric composition, water supply, illumination, observation, and gravity). The facility has performed multi-generation (seed-to-seed) experiments and studies the effects of gravity and light on early development and growth, signal perception and transduction in plant tropisms.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Stowage Configuration: The crew relocated cargo that will be used frequently during SpX-9 docked ops from the Japanese Experiment Logistics Module-Pressurized Section (JLP) and JEM Pressurized Module (JPM). He also made room to stow cargo arriving on SpX-9 that is planned for frequent use.
Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Status: The WPA continues to experience faults of the Independent Shutdown Monitor (ISM) which causes WPA to isolate the potable water delivery system. The faults are due to increased delta pressure across the microbial check valve.  In addition, the Reactor Health Sensor conductivity has risen, causing the WPA to remain in Recycle and at higher risk for ISM faults.  Teams met and recommended to further reduce the process and low flow rates to lower the system pressure.  This can be accomplished by ground commanding only.  Reducing the flow rates would not prevent Independent Shutdown Monitor (ISM) faults, however, it will provide more margin and reduce the frequency of faults. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

JEM Airlock Pressurization
MELF3 Ice Brick Insert
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring r/g 1588
RASTENIYA-2. Equipment Audit / r/g 2706
3DP Coupon removal and stowage
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Download Data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (Start) r/g 2224
Biological Research in Canisters Natural Products (BRICNP)  Relocate the stowage in preparation for SpX-9 BRIC NP installation
Soyuz 717 Kazbek Fit Check
JEM Airlock Leak Check
RELAKSATSIYA. Hardware setup r/g 2718
USOS Stowage Consolidation
Progress 432 [AO] Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 1812, 1832
RELAKSATSIYA. Parameter Settings Adjustment r/g 2718
JEM Dragon 9 Stowage Reconfiguration
RELAKSATSIYA. Observation r/g 2718
RELAKSATSIYA. Closeout ops and hardware stow / r/g 2718
Preventive Maintenance of FS1 Laptop  (Cleaning and rebooting) / r/g 1023
Exercise Hardware Gathering
BRI Monthly Maintenance r/g 2716
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV
СОЖ Maintenance
NAPOR-mini RSA. Cleaning Onboard Memory Storage БЗУ-М vents / r/g 1906
3DP Coupon removal and stowage
FS1 File Server S/W Update Installation r/g 2715
MATRYOSHKA-R. Gathering and Initialization of BUBBLE-dosimeter detectors r/g 2717
ISS-HAM Radio Session
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (end) and start file compression r/g 2224
Dust Filter Replacement and MRM1 Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger (ГЖТ) Cleaning
RADIN Handover of RADI-N Detectors to RS
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeters to USOS / r/g 2717
RADIN  Dosimeter Deployment
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter initialization and deployment r/g 2717 
EMCS Valve Open
EMCS Water pump installation
MERLIN3 Removal of Used Desiccant
Countermeasures System (CMS) Sprint Exercise, Optional
IMS Delta File Prep
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops / r/g 2714
3DP Coupon removal and stowage
Final EWC WAP configuration and SM WAP stow
Geo-Physics Experiments (ГФИ-1). Charging battery for Relaksatstiya experiment (initiate) / r/g 0167

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Nominal ground commanding 

