
GLACIER2:  The crew performed a routine desiccant pack swap and verified a Quick Disconnect (QD) fitting on the Glacier2 water supply line was not leaking. GLACIER provides a double middeck-locker-size freezer/refrigerator for a variety of experiments that require temperatures ranging from +4 °C (39 °F) and -160 °C (-301 °F). The GLACIER is compatible with the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) rack.
Veg-04A:  The crew performed a routine plant check, watered the plants and weighed any broken leaves using the Mass Measurement Device.  They also replaced the plant pillows showing no plant growth with blank plant pillows to deter microbial growth.  A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-04A focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 28-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space. 
Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Catalytic Reactor Remove & Replace (R&R): As of this April, the WPA Catalytic Reactor has shown signs of a slow leak. Based on past experience, the reactor will only continue processing for a few months past initial sign of a leak. Due to possible thermal instability in the reactor preventing the WPA from processing, inability of the reactor to maintain pressure, and/or water in the reactor’s thermal cover causing condensation in the rack, today the crew R&Rd the Cat Reactor. During the R&R the T2 was unavailable for use but has been configured to nominal operations.
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) LAD62B_A Firmware Update: Ground teams updated the Firmware Boot Timer for RPCMLAD62B_A in preparation for RPCM removal and replacement tomorrow. RPCM LAD62B_A’s RPC 2 tripped on June 30, resulting in a loss of smoke detection in the Lab Deck 6 (LAD6) rack. Troubleshooting has not been successful in reclosing the RPC and teams have decided to proceed with RPCM replacement to recover power to the smoke detector. The removed RPCM will be stowed as a degraded spare that can be used in a location that does not use the failed RPC 2. The Firmware Boot Timer update will allow the spare RPCM to be installed via hot mate technique. 
ISS Reboost: The ISS completed a reboost using the Service Module (SM) main engines. This reboost was to set up phasing for 4-orbit 59S launch on July 20 and 2-orbit 73P launch on July 31. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Cat Reactor R&R support

Look Ahead:
Wednesday, 7/3 (GMT 184)
Payloads:


FIR/LMM confocal camera replacement
ISS Experience
ISS HAM pass
MELFI Ice brick insertions
NRCSD-16 satellite deploy
PBR nutrient exchange/sample
Two-phase flow
Team Task Switching
Radi-N2 detector deploy
VEG-04 chk and MMD

Systems:

WRS hardware restow
WSS leak inspection

Thursday, 7/4 (GMT 185) – Off-duty day
Payloads:

VEG-04 check and MMD

Systems:

Crew holiday

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Catalytic Reactor Remove and Replace
SEPARATION. Moving ЭК11 valve to open position
Glacier 2 QD Inspection
[СТТС] Configuration for MRM1
Photo/TV Node 3 Camcorder Display Overlay
VIZIR. Experiment Ops using СКП-УП P/L.  Tagup with specialists
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Catalytic Reactor ORU R&R
Comm reconfig for nominal ops
MRM1 fan (group B) screen cleaning, cleaning behind panels 405, 406
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Weekly monitoring of video recording equipment performance on the ISS RS
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Catalytic Reactor ORU Prep for Stowage
Treatment of FGB structural elements and shell areas with Fungistat
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) WRS1 Rack Closeout
T2/WRS1 Nominal Config
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ [КОВ] for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
СОЖ maintenance
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Pivot Fitting Install
Checking cover closure on SM windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14
Glacier Desiccant Swap
VEG04 Alternate Plan Check

 