07-01-2010July 01, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/01/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Crew sleep cycle remains shifted to the right for tomorrow’s Progress 38P docking (~12:58pm EDT)  Wake – 7:00am (reg. 2:00am), Sleep – 10:30pm (reg. 5:30pm) EDT.  FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-6 Walker continued her at-wakeup session with the Pro K protocol, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.      [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken during the day.]  Also at wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson completed another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  CDR Skvortsov terminated his 7th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  Before breakfast and exercise, Caldwell-Dyson performed her first clinical blood analysis of the US PHS (Periodic Health Status) w/Blood Labs examination.  Alex Skvortsov assisted in drawing blood and using the U.S. PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer).  The second part of PHS, Subjective Clinical Evaluation, was performed later in the day.     [The PHS exam, with PCBA analysis and clinical evaluation, is guided by special software (IFEP, In-Flight Examination Program) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).  While PCBA analyzes total blood composition, the blood's hematocrit is particularly measured by the Russian MO-10 protocol.]  FE-4 Wheelock completed the setup of the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware with Thermolab, left deployed in a temporary stow configuration on 6/22 by Tracy, and then had several hours to perform his first session of the VO2Max assessment, assisted by Tracy.  Later, Wheels downloaded experiment data, then tore down and put away the hardware.     [The experiment VO2Max uses the PPFS, CEVIS cycle, PFS gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol comprises 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% & 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 250-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cooldown period follows at the 25% load.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]  In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Caldwell-Dyson continued her support of the CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures-2) experiment, where the SPU #1 (Sample Processing Unit #1) processing finished overnight.     [Tracy verified transfer of processing data from the CSLM hard drive to the MLC (MSG Laptop Computer), powered down the CLSM-2 and exchanged SPU #1 with a new sample, SPU #3, again via the MSG AL (Microgravity Science Glovebox Airlock), instead of having to extract the WV (Work Volume).  Afterwards, the first (of four) vacuum vent cycles was initiated, later terminated, followed by opening the water valve, then closing it and opening the vent valve to initiate the 2nd vacuum draw on the sample chamber later in the day, running overnight.]  All crewmembers took the monthly O-OHA (On-Orbit Hearing Assessment) test, a 30-min NASA environmental health systems examination to assess the efficacy of acoustic countermeasures, using a special software application on the MEC laptop.     [The O-OHA audiography test involves minimum audibility measurements for each ear over a wide range of frequencies (0.25-10 kHz) and sound pressure levels, with the crewmembers using individual-specific Prophonics earphones, new Bose ANC headsets (delivered on 30P) and the SLM (sound level meter).  To conduct the testing, the experimenter is supported by special EarQ software on the MEC, featuring an up/down-arrow-operated slider for each test frequency that the crewmember moves to the lowest sound pressure level at which the tone can still be heard.  The baseline test is required not later than about Flight Day 14 for each new Expedition and is then generally performed once per month.  Note: There has been temporary hearing deficits documented on some U.S. and Russian crewmembers, all of which recovered to pre-mission levels.]  After configuring the STTS communications system for working in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, Skvortsov continued installation and preparation for operating the new PK-3+ Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall-3 plus) Telescience payload, the first time for Expedition 24.  Afterwards, the CDR conducts a leak check on the EB vacuum chamber.  Later, the STTS comm system will be returned to nominal.     [The PK-3+ hardware comprises the EB (Eksperimental’nyj Blok) Experiment Module with a turbopump for evacuation, Ts laptop, video monitor, vacuum hoses, electrical circuitry, four hard storage disks for video, and one USB stick with the control application.  After setting up the hardware yesterday in MRM2 (it used to be run in the SM/Service Module), leak checking of the electronics box and evacuation of the vacuum work chamber (EB) with the turbopump, Alexander today is conducting more hardware testing and calibration, uploading new software from a USB stick, checking out the software installation and verifying the readiness of the assembled apparatus.  After starting the turbopump right after wake-up and conducting additional leak checking on the EB during the “day”, the CDR will deactivate the turbopump tonight at ~10:25pm EDT.  The resulting log file will be downloaded to laptop for downlink via BSR-TM.  The experiment is performed on plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber.  Main objective is to obtain a homogeneous plasma dust cloud at various pressures and particle quantities with or without superimposition of an LF (low frequency) harmonic electrical field.  The experiment is conducted in automated mode.  PK-3+ has more advanced hardware and software than the previously used Russian PKE-Nefedov payload.]  FE-3 Kornienko again has ~1h40m for shooting additional newsreel footage using the SONY HVR-Z7 #2 high-definition camcorder as part of the ongoing effort to create a photo & video imagery database on the flight of ISS-23/24 (“Flight Chronicles”).  Mikhail also took photo/video views of Skvortsov at work on the PK-3+ Telescience payload.      [Footage subjects are to be focused on life on the station, personal hygiene, food intake, playing with water, enjoying weightlessness, exercise, moving about, station interior, Earth surface, space clothing, cosmonaut at work, station cleaning, etc.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]  For CDR Skvortsov & FE-5 Yurchikhin, it was time again for recharging the Motorola Iridium-9505A satellite phones located in Soyuz TMA-18/22S (at MRM2) & Soyuz TMA-19/23S (docked at MRM1), a monthly routine job and Fyodor’s 1st, Sasha’s 3rd.    [After retrieving the phones from their location in the spacecraft Descent Modules (BO), the crewmembers initiated the recharge of the lithium-ion batteries, monitoring the process every 10-15 minutes as it took place.  Upon completion, the phones were returned inside their SSSP Iridium kits and stowed back in the BO’s ODF (operational data files) container.  The satphone accompanies returning ISS crews on Soyuz reentry & landing for contingency communications with SAR (Search-and-Rescue) personnel after touchdown (e.g., after an “undershoot” ballistic reentry, as happened during the 15S return).  The Russian-developed procedure for the monthly recharging has been approved jointly by safety officials.  During the procedure, the phone is left in its fire-protective fluoroplastic bag with open flap.  The Iridium 9505A satphone uses the Iridium constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to relay the landed Soyuz capsule's GPS (Global Positioning System) coordinates to helicopter-borne recovery crews.  The older Iridium-9505 phones were first put on board Soyuz in August 2003.  The newer 9505A phone, currently in use, delivers 30 hours of standby time and three hours of talk, up from 20 and two hours, respectively, on the older units.]  Yurchikhin configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his 1st, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic & physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]  FE-3 Kornienko conducted his 6th data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.     [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]  Mikhail also performed periodic maintenance in the SM’s ASU toilette facility, changing out replaceable parts with new components, such as a filter insert (F-V), the urine receptacle (MP), the pretreat container (E-K) with its hose and the DKiV pretreat & water dispenser.  All old parts were discarded as trash.    [E-K contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H2SO4 (sulfuric acid), CrO3 (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple color), and H2O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed with water in the DKiV dispenser and used for toilet flushing.]  After yesterday’s ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Echo Scan session, Shannon Walker was to make preparations for her next ICV experiment session, Ambulatory Monitoring, scheduled tomorrow.    [For preparation, Shannon charged four Makita power tool batteries, installed Li (lithium) batteries in two ICV Actiwatches (hip/waist & ankle) and used the HRF PC1 laptop and Reader to initialize the Actiwatches and format two HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi CF memory cards.]  FE-6 is also going to set up the equipment for her first Nutrition/Repository/Pro K generic urine collections which start tomorrow morning for their 24-hour run. Samples will be secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  FE-2 started another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.     [This was the 7th session with the new GC/DMS unit (#1004), after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  Working on the ER1 (EXPRESS Rack 1) laptop with its network connections, Tracy loaded software (Common Laptop vers. 7) on it, installed BIOS and configured it for ER1 operations.  As next step, FE-2 also installed the SNFM (Serial Network Flow Monitor) application on the machine, for capturing and transmitting science data.   As a handover activity, Caldwell-Dyson was joined by Doug Wheelock in using the WRS FTP (Water Recovery System / Fluid Transfer Pump) to transfer stored water to supplement the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) Waste Water Tank, a periodic job.  Also for handover, FE-2 & FE-4 completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.     [The new card (24-0007C) lists 126 CWCs (2,956.7 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (28 CWCs with 1,127.6 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 712.7 L in 18 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 129.4 L in 3 bags still requiring sample analysis, 128.3 L in 3 bags for flushing only with microbial filter, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (5 CWCs with 215.4 L, of which 1 bag with 43.6 L requires sample analysis, 1 bag with 42.5 L are to be used with microbial filter & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use;  3. iodinated water (84 CWCs with 1,550.1 L, including 18 CWCs with 331.7 L still requiring analysis);  4. condensate water (7 bags with 43.4 L, including 2 CWCs with 43.4 L that are to be used with microbial filter & 5 empty bags; and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (1 CWC with 20.2 L & 1 empty bag).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  As a regular periodic task, Skvortsov tightened the ZVB quick-release screw clamps on the SSVP docking mechanism between DC1 Docking Compartment and Progress 37P (#405) interface.  Sasha also conducted the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]  Fyodor Yurchikhin had ~1h reserved for a special Symbolic Activity, in honor of St. Martyr Alexander Nevsky, by imprinting a supply of 30 icons of the Saint with the octagonal ISS hand stamp.     [Alexander Yaroslavich Nevsky, considered “Russia’s Defender”, is one of Russia’s greatest heroes, a medieval legend and one of the most venerated saints of the Russian Orthodox Church.  Born May 30, 1220, he rose to legendary status on account of his military victories in defense of the city of Novgorod over Swedish invaders in 1240 at the river Neva and the crusading Teutonic Knights in 1242 in the famous Battle of the Ice on Lake Peipus, shown in one of Sergei Eisenstein’s best motion pictures (1938) with the music score of Sergei Prokofiev.  Because of his first victory at the Neva, Prince Alexander henceforth was called Nevsky (“of Neva”).  Alexander later continued to strengthen Russia’s Northwest (today’s Moscow Russia), sending his envoys to Norway and, as a result, they signed a first peace treaty between Russia and Norway in 1251.  He also was able to establish peaceful relationships with the Golden Horde of the Tatars, to his country’s benefit.  Veneration as a saint began soon after his death in 1263, and in 1547 he was canonized by the Orthodox Church.  In September 2008, Alexander was declared the Main Hero of Russia’s history by popular vote, as reported by the Kommersant newspaper, and in December 2008, Alexander Nevsky was voted the Greatest Russian in a “Name of Russia” television poll.  August 30 is one of the feast days inaugurated in commemoration of the transfer of his body to his gravesite in St. Petersburg at (Russian: St. Peterburg, no “s”) on this day, by order of Peter the Great.]  Later, Yurchikhin worked on two failed Russian laptops, RSK2 & RSS2, disabling anti-virus application and checking out the machines.     [RSK2 is disabled because of a conflict between the old vs. 7 anti-virus program with new virus definition files.  Plans are to replace it with a T61p after Progress 39P docking in September.  RSS2 can access only one of its drives, via BSR-TM, without anti-virus, and is isolated from the network.  Most likely, it will be reloaded with an upgrade and changed settings.]  FE-5 also did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Kornienko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Fyodor, Shannon & Wheels again had an hour each set aside for crew onboard orientation and adaptation.     [During the first two weeks after their arrival, a new ISS crew will have 1 hour a day to adjust to living in space.]  The crew is working out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-4, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3, FE-5).  Conjunction Update:   Improved orbit determination of the ISS after the 23S relocation perturbations, coupled with continued tracking updates on the H-2A rocket body (Object 30588) has shown that this conjunction is of no longer of any concern.  SAW Update:   Engineering teams have completed the reconstruction of the loading events that occurred on the 4A, 4B & 2A SAWs (Solar Array Wings) during the 23S relocation, which created thermal loads from longeron shadowing and structural loads from the thruster firings.   Analysis shows that loads from both sources were within limits.  Any post-event constraints have been lifted and CMG (Control Moment Gyro) desaturations have been re-enabled.  Elektron Update:    As reported before, the Elektron oxygen generator failed to the backup pump within two minutes after the crew switched Elektron to 50 amps, followed by failure of the backup pump shortly thereafter.  The crew then performed additional troubleshooting to flush the BE buffer tank using the BPA nitrogen tank. The Elektron successfully started up on the backup pump.  Epsilon Aurigae Eclipse Observation:   ISS is participating in a significant astronomical observation program just getting underway, followed by thousands of amateur & professional astronomers: the Epsilon Aurigae Eclipse.   A specific star in the Constellation Auriga (Charioteer) called Epsilon Aurigae undergoes an eclipse (being occulted) every 27.1 years.  This has puzzled astronomers for nearly 200 years.  The eclipse lasts nearly two years which, with the 27.1 year period, means the eclipsing body must be gigantic.  There may be a temporary brightening at mid-eclipse.  There have been no satisfactory explanations to date for this.  Is it a giant cloud of gas with a doughnut-like hole, permitting the star to brighten during mid-eclipse?  The Sun’s proximity to Epsilon Aurigae, as seen from the ground, prevents observations by ground-based astronomers during mid-eclipse, but astronauts on the ISS, having a different aspect angle, can observe and note changes in relative brightness, as suggested by the AAVSO (American Association of Variable Star Observers) following a talk by NASA-Astronaut John Grunsfeld.  The method used by the crew is to compare the brightness of Epsilon Aurigae weekly with three other nearby stars of known & unchanging brightness.  CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Epsilon Aurigae & Comet McNaught (looking left of track, above the limb of the Earth, to observe the brightness of this star, as compared to other stars in the Auriga constellation, described above.  Because of the current seasonal lighting conditions, during the northern portion of each of your orbits, ISS has about 25-minute windows at the uplinked times today for viewing the star), Luanda, Angola (ISS had a mid-afternoon pass in fair weather for views of the Angolan capital city of nearly 5 million.  As the station approached the African coast from the SW at this time, the crew was to begin looking just right of track for this urban area by the sea), St. Paul Rocks islets, Brazil (HMS Beagle Site:  Darwin and the Beagle briefly visited this isolated, equatorial Atlantic site in early February of 1832.  This tiny group of islets and rocks is also known as the Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago.  The islands are of particular interest to geologists as they expose rocks associated with the Earth's mantle above sea level.  Looking just left of track for the islands as ISS approached the area from the SW.  With mid-afternoon light and a few clouds the crew should have been be able to photograph all of them in a mapping pass), Dakar, Senegal (the capital city of Senegal has a population estimated at just over 1 million and dominates the promontory known as Cape Verde, Africa’s westernmost point.  ISS had a late afternoon pass in fair weather near nadir for this target with its approach from the SW over the Cape Verde Islands.  Trying for a complete mapping of the urban area of the city), Lake Poopo, Bolivia (Lake levels in Poopo are generally affected by El Niño episodes with water levels declining during ENSO [El Niño Southern Oscillation] events.  ISS imagery will also add to CEO’s time series imagery of the fluctuations of lake levels in Poopo.  Review of the most recent imagery of Lake Poopo from ISS shows that additional views of this target area would be desirable.  On this mid-afternoon pass the lake was at nadir under fair skies.  Contextual views of this were requested at this time), Epsilon Aurigae & Comet McNaught (crew was to use description and procedure for earlier target at 9:36am EDT) and Basseterre, St. Kitts and Nevis (ISS had a nadir pass over the capital city of Basseterre located in the extreme northeastern Caribbean Sea.  The city is located on the southwestern coast of Saint Kitts Island, and is one of the oldest towns in the eastern Caribbean region.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested).  