
60 Progress (60P) Launch: 60P launched successfully last night at 11:55 PM CDT from Baikonur, Kazahkstan Cosmodrome. Ascent was nominal and all appendages were deployed. Docking is scheduled for this Sunday at 2:13 AM CDT following a 34-orbit rendezvous.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (BCAT-KP): Kelly charged the D2Xs camera batteries, then performed a battery changeout, downlinked the images, and set the camera intervalometer.  BCAT-KP provides a platform for material and industrial scientists to investigate colloid phase changes, providing results that may be used to develop new colloidal materials and formulations with unique properties. The results may support new applications, from new liquid crystals to consumer goods having longer shelf life and uses.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Repair:  Kelly replaced the MDCA Igniter Tip in Igniter Base 1 and the MDCA Fiber Arm due to damage. He opened the rack doors and the Combustion Chamber Front End Cap, then removed the MDCA Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) and restrained it to the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) Work Surface Area. Inside the MDCA CIA, he removed the damaged MDCA Fiber Arm, replaced the bent MDCA Igniter Tip in Igniter Base 1, and installed a new MDCA Fiber Arm. After reinstalling the MDCA CIA in the Combustion Chamber, he closed the Front End Cap and the rack doors.  Ground teams are performing checkouts prior to initiation of the FLEX-2J experiment.  FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2J studies the interactions of flames on the motion and ignition (or non-ignition) of millimeter-sized droplets. Results can provide fundamental insight into the physics of fuel burning, which improves computer models designed to reduce emissions and improve fuel consumption efficiency in space and on Earth.
Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Backup Drive System (BDS) Checkout: Kelly configured the JEMRMS cable for BDS checkout in preparation for HTV5 arrival currently scheduled in August. Following the checkout he reconfigured the cables for nominal operations.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


D2Xs camera battery charge for Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (ВСАТ)
JEMRMS – Reconfiguration of BDS
MDCA – Preparation Ops
Rodent Research Inventory Audit
JEMRMS Back Up Controller (BUC) Power On
JEMRMS Backup Drive System (BDS) Checkout – Part 2
JEMRMS – Backup Controller (BUC) power off
JEMRMS – Backup Drive System (BDS) checkout/cleanup
BCAT – Camera battery replacement, photo downlink, and D2Xs camera intervalometer setup.
Conference on specifics of ТКГ 428 docking.
CIR – Video Setup and Rack Doors Open
CIR – Hardware Activation and Video Ops
MDCA – Hardware Replacement
СОЖ Maintenance
CIR – Front End Cap Closure
CIR – Rack Doors Close
CIR – Post-Experiment Hardware Stowage 

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Payload JSL 60M Downlink

