
SpaceX (SpX)-11 Departure/Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: On Monday, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to position Dragon for release.  At 1:41am CDT the ISS Crew released Dragon and backed the SSRMS away. Following Dragon departure, Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position and provided video support of the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) petals closure. Dragon splashed down in the Pacific Ocean at ~7:15am CDT.  Recovery forces then retrieved more than 4100 lbs of cargo, including human and animal science samples, biotechnology studies, and physical science and education investigations.
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  On Sunday the crew cleaned the Animal Access Unit in preparation for injections today. Today they set up the Bone Densitometer and the ground performed a quality control check. They then completed injections of half of the RR-5 mice remaining on the ISS in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and performed bone densitometer scans of each of those mice. Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight. The Bone Densitometer device measures the density of minerals in bone. Quantitative measures of bone loss in mice during orbital space flight provide data for the development of countermeasures for human crewmembers, as well as for bone-loss syndromes on Earth. 
Cardiac Stem Cells:  On Sunday, the crew removed Life Science hardware from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), concluding Cardiac Stem Cells operations. Cardiac Stem Cells investigates how microgravity affects stem cells and the factors that govern their activity, in order to clarify the role of stem cells in cardiac biology and tissue regeneration. This investigation also supports research into the possible acceleration of the aging process in microgravity.  
Food Acceptability:  The crew completed a Food Acceptability questionnaire today. The investigation seeks to determine the impact on food acceptability on ISS of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system. Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Regeneration of Ф1 Cartridge of Micropurification Unit (БМП)
Disinfectant Drainage from EDV and SM Rodnik БВ2 Water Tank Bladder Compression
Fungistat Treatment of SM Structure and Shell Components
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 4
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 6
Rodent Research Injection and Bone Densitometer 1A
Rodent Research Bone Densitometer Scan
Rodent Research Injection and Bone Densitometer 1B
Rodent Research Injection and Bone Densitometer 2A
Closeout Operations during SM Rodnik БВ2 Water Tank Bladder Compression
Rodent Research Injection and Bone Densitometer 2B
RADIOSCAF. Preparation for Test Checkout of Танюша-ЮЗГУ-1 Satellite and Satellite Activation

Completed Task List Items

Exp 50/51/52 Logistics and Maintenance Mid-Mission Debrief [Completed GMT 182]
Transfer Center Stack [Completed GMT 182]
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Terminate [Completed GMT 184]
Change batteries in the Fluid Shifts DPOAE and set the date and time [Completed GMT 184]
Crew search to find two RR Containment Kits [Completed GMT 184]

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Rodent Research ops support 

