07-04-2010July 04, 2010ISS On-Orbit Status 07/04/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    U.S. Independence Day.  Sunday – Crew sleep cycle is shifting left to return to nominal:  Wake – 7:00am (reg. 2:00am), Sleep – 8:30pm (reg. 5:30pm) EDT.  Yest kasaniye!    At 12:17pm EDT, Progress M-06M(38P) docked successfully to the SM (Service Module) aft port under KURS autopilot control, followed by a final DPO post-contact thrusting burn, docking probe retraction and hook closure (“sborka”) after motion damp-out while the ISS was in free drift for ~20 min (12:17pm-12:37pm).  At “hooks closed” signal, the SM returned to active attitude control, maneuvering the ISS to LVLH TEA (local vertical/local horizontal Torque Equilibrium Attitude) at ~12:37pm.  Control authority returns to US Momentum Management at ~2:10pm.  Russian thrusters will be disabled temporarily during clamps install and leak check (2:10pm-4:10pm).    [This was the second docking attempt after yesterday’s aborted linkup, now traced to an interruption of the TORU radio signal by the SM’s Klest/Simvol television system.  The dropout of the TORU teleoperated rendezvous & docking system then generated the command “cancel dynamic operations” which aborted KURS automatic rendezvous mode and switched Progress to a safe, passive flightpath, as designed.  For today’s docking, TORU, which is usually in “hot standby” mode during Kurs-controlled dockings, was not activated.]    For monitoring 38P rendezvous & docking, CDR Skvortsov & FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson had set up the Ku-band video “scheme” for covering the Progress docking, activating the FGB-based A31p SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop for the TV conversion to NTSC & Ku-band of the RS (Russian Segment) video signal from the SONY HDV camera via the MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoder from FGB & SM, in order to downlink “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.     Approach & docking as seen from the +X (backward facing) SM TV camera was monitored by Alexander as always on the SSC1 (Station Support Computer 1) laptop using the NVIEWER (NASA Viewer) software application.   Before docking, FE-4 Wheelock shut down the amateur/ham radio equipment (~9:05am) to prevent RF interference with the Progress KURS radio control system.    [The protective shutters of the Lab, Kibo & Cupola science windows were already closed last night.]   Tracy Caldwell-Dyson worked with Alex to tear down and remove the MPEG-2 “schemes” streaming video downlink setup, then deactivated the conversion A31p laptop in the FGB.   At ~2:10pm-3:25pm, the crew conducts the standard one-hour leak checking of the docking vestibule and fuel/oxidizer transfer line interface between Progress and SM/aft.   Later today, the Russian crewmembers will –  Open      the hatches (~3:25pm) and install the QD (quick disconnect) screw      clamps (BZV) of      the docking & internal transfer mechanism (SSVP) to rigidize the coupling (Sasha);  Perform the standard air      sampling inside Progress with the Russian AK-1M      air sampler (Fyodor);  Power down the spacecraft      (~4:05pm) and install the ventilation/heating air duct (Sasha);  Dismantle the docking      mechanism (StM,      Stykovochnovo mekhanizma) between the cargo ship and the SM port      (~4:25pm-5:25pm)  [the StM      being the "classic" probe-and-cone type, consisting of an active      docking assembly (ASA)      with a probe (SSh), which fits into the cone (SK) on the passive docking      assembly (PSA)      for initial soft dock and subsequent retraction to hard dock.  The ASA is mounted      on the Progress' cargo module (GrO),      while the PSA      sits on the docking ports of the SM, FGB and DC-1], and Work in the 38P vehicle to      install the electronic LKT      local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB)      of the BITS2-12      onboard telemetry measurement system and its PZU-1M ROM (read-only memory), using      recycled boxes from stowage (Fyodor).    At wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   CDR Skvortsov began his day by attending to the current experiment session with the KPT-21 Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall/PK-3+) payload, activating the turbopump in the MRM2 “Poisk” module for keeping the vacuum chamber (EB) evacuated.  The turbopump will be deactivated again before sleeptime, at ~10:25pm EDT.    [Main objective of PK-3 is to study wave propagation and dispersion ratio in a dust plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber, at a specified power of HF discharge, pressure, and a varied number of particles.]   FE-6 Shannon Walker concluded her first (FD15) ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity (~4:55pm EDT).  Later, she downloaded the data from all devices to the HRF (Human Research Function) PC1 laptop.     [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres/BP is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.]   Yurchikhin completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].   FE-5 also performed the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.   CDR & FE-2 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Tracy at ~4:45am, Alex at ~10:00am EDT.   The crew is working out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3, FE-5).    [T2 currently must undergo a snubber inspection between exercise sessions.]  Conjunction Advisory:   NASA FCT (Flight Control Team) is following a conjunction of the ISS with a piece of orbital debris (Object 31822).  TCA (Time of Closest Approach) for 31822 is 7/6 (Tuesday) at 2:18pm EDT.  Until the current ISS orbit has been tracked more precisely, the conjunction is currently classified as a low risk, and no action is necessary at this time.    No CEO photo targets uplinked for today.    