
Node 3 Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Water Separator (WS) Change Out:  Today, the crew replaced the Node 3 CCAA WS. The unit had experienced several water carryover events since May 3, 2017. To assist in preventing these events, ground teams adjusted the Node 3 Low Temperature Loop to reduce condensation rates.  The failing unit esd operational for over 7 years with expected life of 5 years. Ground teams activated the newly repaired CCAA and are receiving good telemetry.    
Magnetic 3 Dimensional (Mag 3D) Cell Culturing:  With assistance from the Payload Developer, the crew used a microscope to view Magnetic 3D Biocells. They fixated the biocells and inserted them in to a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). This was followed by injections of Magnetic 3D cultures media into the multiwell Biocells. Cell cultures in space spontaneously grow in three dimensions, resulting in characteristics more representative of how cells grow and function in living organisms. But in microgravity, routine manipulation of cell cultures is challenging. This investigation uses magnetized cells and tools to make it easier to handle cells and cultures and to improve the reproducibility of experiments. This approach also makes it possible to generate two-dimensional cultures as controls, and to determine whether biological events in these monolayer cultures result from gravity or substrate attachment.
Microbial Monitoring System (MMS): The crew configured the hardware and collected low and high DNA concentration deionized water samples using the Razor Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) Microbial Monitoring System.  They then transferred data from the sample tests for downlink.  The MMS supports crew testing and monitoring of the safety of water supplies on the ISS and is also applicable to future space missions where Earth-based testing would be difficult or impossible. 
Habitability Walk-through: The crew will record and submit a walk-through video today documenting observations of life onboard ISS and providing insights related to human factors and habitability. The investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. These observations can help spacecraft designers understand habitable volume requirements and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crewmembers need or not.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Extremophiles Sampling Session B
Наклейка русских букв на клавиатуру лэптопа RSК2
VIZIR. Modification of SM panels 114, 116 for СКПФ-УМ P/L
URAGAN. Observation and Photography
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Calf Volume Measurement
Virus Definition File Update on Auxiliary Computer System [ВКС] Laptops
CCAA Water Separator R&R
Magnetic 3D Cultures MELFI Operations
Acoustic Dosimeter Setup
Photography of SM SKK cartridge No.9
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Install
WORF IPEHG Shutter Actuator System Procedure Review
Study of veins in lower extremities
Magnetic 3D Cultures Microscope Operations
Replacement of RSK2 Laptop Shell.
HRF1 PC 1 USB Load Installation [Aborted]
Search for equipment and procedure review to replace [СКВ1] compressor.
Magnetic 3D Cultures Biocells Fixation
URAGAN. VSS P/L SW Adjustment and Test Imagery. 
Glacier Desiccant Swap Alternate
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
MELFI Ice Brick Insert
Auxiliary Computer Equipment Audit
Analysis of SM Atmosphere for Freon Using Freon Leak Analyzer/Detector (ФИТ)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
Magnetic 3D Cultures Inoculation
WORF IPEHG Shutter Actuation System Conference
MELFI Rodent Research Transfer
Max Cycle Ergometer w/ Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Set Up
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration
Habitability Walk-through Video
Increment 51 Plaque Hanging

Completed Task List Items

Microbial Monitoring System On-Board Training
Microbial Monitoring System Setup, Preparation, and Sampling 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Node 3 CCAA Activation Post R&R

