
Capillary Structures:  The crew set up hardware for the Capillary Structures investigation, then performed a stability assessment and transferred the hardware to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM).  Life-support systems on the ISS require special equipment to separate liquids and gases including rotating or moving devices that could cause contamination if they break or fail.  This investigation studies a new method using structures of specific shapes to manage fluid and gas mixtures.  It also studies water recycling and carbon dioxide removal, benefitting future efforts to design lightweight, more reliable life support systems for future space missions.
Crew Autonomous Scheduling Test (CAST): The crew completed the final of five CAST sessions today.  They scheduled their work day for this coming Thursday using an iPad, Playbook and a list of scheduling priorities. On Thursday they will execute their scheduled plan utilizing Playbook. They also completed a survey of this session.  Space missions beyond low-Earth orbit require new approaches to daily operations between ground and crew to account for significant communication delays. One approach is increased autonomy for crews, or Autonomous Mission Operations. The CAST investigation analyzes whether crews can develop plans in a reasonable period of time with appropriate input, whether proximity of planners to the planned operations increases efficiency, and if crew members are more satisfied when given a role in plan development.
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  The crew performed injections of the RR-5 mice in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight.The Bone Densitometer device measures the density of minerals in bone. Quantitative measures of bone loss in mice during orbital space flight provide data for the development of countermeasures for human crewmembers, as well as for bone-loss syndromes on Earth.  
JEM Smoke Detector Cleaning:  The crew cleaned JEM Cabin Smoke Detector B using a Connector Cleaner Tool Kit and N2 Cartridge to supply bursts of N2 to remove particles. This routine maintenance is performed in order to keep the Smoke Detectors working properly and preventing inadvertent alarm trips.   
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

JEM Airlock Depressurization
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Gas Bottle Unit Air (GBU) Retrieval
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Gas Bottle Unit Air (GBU) Installation
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Two-Phase Flow Experiment Equipment Deactivation
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Nitrogen gas QD connection
JPM Cabin Smoke Detector B Cleaning
TV Session with the participants of Pan-Russian Youth Science School (Ku + S-band)
Locating EVA hardware and tools. Conference with EVA specialists
Crew Autonomous Scheduling Test – Self Scheduling Session #5
CAST Historical Photo
Crew Autonomous Scheduling Test – Questionnaire
Charging GoPro HERO3 Camcorder Battery (6) from Soyuz 735, start
JEM Airlock Vent
JEM Airlock Vent Confirmation
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Initiation
On MCC Go ISS Repress with N2 from Progress 435 (DC1) СрПК Section 2 (start)
Emergency RS ISS VHF-1 Comm Checkout from USOS
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Rodent Research 5 Injection 4A
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 4
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 8
On MCC Go ISS N2 repress from Progress 435 (DC1) СрПК Section 2 (terminate)
Rodent Research MELFI Retrieve 5
Rodent Research 5 Injection 4A
Soyuz 735 IRIDIUM Phone Recharging, Start Recharge (ФГБ1ПГО_2_224_1, CTB 1017 (002857J), Soft Container (00044322R))
Soyuz 735 IRIDIUM Phone Charging – Battery Status Check
Soyuz 735 IRIDIUM Phone Charge, Terminate Charge, Teardown of the Setup (equipment → stowage location)
Charging GoPro HERO3 Camcorder Battery (6) from Soyuz 735, end
Final Progress 435 (DC1) Stowage Ops with IMS Support.  Stowage complete call down
Countermeasures System (CMS) VELO Exercise session
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Setup
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Prep
Health Maintenance System (HMS) CMO – Fundoscope
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Eye Exam – Fundoscope
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Tear Down and Stow

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

JEMAL Depress Support

