07-18-2009July 18, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/18/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday.    Crew sleep cycle:  Wake:  7:03am; sleep: 10:03pm EDT.  Mission 2J/A’s EVA-1 has been completed.   Having begun at 12:19pm EDT, the spacewalk, which was performed by MS4 Dave Wolf & FE-2-E20 Tim Kopra, ended at 5:51pm.    [EV1 & EV2 began their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) last night at ~9:30pm in the U.S. Airlock (A/L) with hatch closure and depressurization of the  Crewlock (CL) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe at ~9:30pm-10:35pm.  This morning, following the usual hygiene break/with mask prebreathe for Wolf & Kopra at ~7:43am-8:53am after spending the night on 10.2 psi, the A/L hatch was closed again by Barratt for EVA preps in 10.2 psi, followed by EMU purge (~10:30am) and prebreathe (~10:40am) in the EMUs.  Afterwards, with CL depressurization (~11:30am) and EV1/EV2 switching to suit power, EVA-1 began at 12:19pm.  The excursion lasted 5h 32m, supported by the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Maneuvering System), operated by PLT Doug Hurley & FE-2 Koichi Wakata.]    Accomplished EVA-1 objectives are:  Preparing the JEF (JEM      Exposed Facility) and the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) for berthing,      using the SRMS (Shuttle Remote Manipulator System) and SSRMS (Space      Station Remote Manipulator System) arms;  Configuring the Node-2      Zenith and Node-1 Port CBCS (Centerline Berthing      Camera System); Reconfiguring the port      CETA (Crew Equipment Translation Aid) cart; Stowing the P3 MT (Mobile      Transporter) rail stop, Releasing the ATA (Ammonia      Tank Assembly) bolt, Deploying the P3 nadir      UCCAS (Unpressurized Cargo Carriers Attachment System); Cleanup & ingress.    One task, deploying the S3 Zenith outboard PAS (Payload Attachment System), was not attempted due to time constraints and will be deferred to a future EVA.   Installation of the JEF on the Kibo JPM with the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) has been initiated.  The installation will be completed by the crew, using a JAXA-developed on-board command interface, the EFBM CCI (Exposed Facility Berthing Mechanism Crew Command Interface).   With EVA-1 underway, this was a busy day for all.  Activities by Gennady Padalka today included –  Performing Sokol space      suit maintenance (suit & glove drying, close-out & stowing in      Soyuz Orbital Module), Auditing Orlan spacesuit      replaceable elements & equipment (SMEG), Offloading the WPA (Water      Processor Assembly) into one of the new CWC-I (Contingency Water      Containers-Iodine, #1012) with the common H2O Transfer Hose      (which took about 23 min) from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Auxiliary      Port, then flushed the system.    FE-1 Mike Barratt’s schedule today involved –  Supporting FE-2 Wakata      & CDR Polansky initiating N2 (nitrogen) transfer from the      Shuttle to the ISS by closing the manual N2 isolation valve      early in the day, Checking out the batteries      of both EVA cameras, Assisting spacewalkers      FE-2 Tim Kopra & MS4 Dave Wolf with hatch operations for the Campout      hygiene break (~7:45am),  Supporting the      spacewalkers with Campout EVA preparations, EMU (Extravehicular Mobility      Unit) purging (~10:30am) and prebreathing (~10:40am), CL (Crewlock)      depress (~11:30am) & post-depress activities, CL repressurization after      the EVA, Photographing the EMU      gloves for downlink and ground analysis, Handling METOX (Metal      Oxide) CO2 absorption canister regeneration and EMU water refilling, Downloading NIKON D2XS EVA      photography, and Recharging the REBA      (Rechargeable EMU Battery Unit) batteries.    FE-2 Wakata worked with PLT Doug Hurley in operating the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) for handing over the JEF after its unberthing from the Shuttle payload bay with the SRMS (Shuttle Remote Manipulator System), maneuvering it to the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Manipulator and installing it.   [The SSRMS was then maneuvered to the MT (Mobile Transporter) translation position.]   For FE-3 Roman Romanenko, today’s activities included –  Terminating the recharge      of the power packs for the BAR instruments “Kelvin-Video” and      TTM-2 and beginning to take measurements behind panels 314, 313, and      231А in the SM.    [Objective of the Russian      KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters      (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface      temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible      micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs.      night).  The payload uses a remote infrared thermometer      (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss      anemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to      determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific      times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X      camera and flash.]   Performing SOZh (ECLSS)      maintenance in the RS (Russian Segment), Verifying IP-1 flow      indicator positions and function, and Conducting IMS (Inventory      Management System) editing/updating.   SM Thruster Anomaly:   Telemetry indicates that SM Thruster +T1 on SM Manifold 2 has failed.  This thruster is one of three thrusters used for positive pitch (+X) control located on Manifold 2.  SM Manifold 1 is fully functional providing system redundancy.  The telemetry indications have no constraints to operations.  The cause for this indication is unknown at this time, MCC-M is investigating.    Debris Avoidance Maneuver:   A DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) was performed at 8:35pm last night, using Orbiter VRCS (Vernier Reaction Control System) thrusters. The maneuver was initiated to avoid a conjunction with unknown object 84180.  IRED Canister Cord Replacement:  The crew replaced and calibrated the IRED (Interim Resistive Exercise Device) canister cords.  The crew was given a Go for nominal exercise on IRED.  Cord replacement was necessary due to cycle counts beyond certified use.  