
Marrow Blood, Breath, and Ambient Air Sample Collection: Upon waking this morning, the crew took the Launch plus 4 day (L+4) blood, breath, and ambient air samples for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Marrow experiment which investigates the effect of microgravity on human bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. The extent of this effect and its recovery are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
3D Printing in Zero-G Experiment: After two consecutive weeks of successful 3D printer operations, today the ground team remotely operated the 3D printer to produce the final 3D printed test coupons in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  The crew removed and stowed all but the last batch, which will remain on the print tray, which will be returned on SpaceX-9 along with the rest of the coupons. Today’s operations bring the total number of coupons printed to 34, which includes a variety of 3D printed test coupons, including calibration, tensile, compression, and layer specimen coupons. The 3D Printing In Zero-G experiment demonstrates that a 3D printer works normally in space. A 3D printer extrudes streams of heated plastic, metal or other material, building layer on top of layer to create 3 dimensional objects. Testing a 3D printer using relatively low-temperature plastic feedstock on the ISS is the first step toward establishing an on-demand machine shop in space, a critical enabling component for deep-space crewed missions and in-space manufacturing.
Mouse Epigenetics Setup Operations: In preparation for the Mouse Epigenetics experiment arriving on SpaceX (SpX)-9, the crew completed setup operations by reconfiguring the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) video cable from the Image Processing Unit (IPU) to Video Compression and Recording Unit 2 (VRU2) and refilling the washer fluid of the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit before removal from the CBEF. The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space, and also examines changes in the DNA of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that occur after exposure to the microgravity environment of space. 
NanoRacks Plate Reader Locker Preparation and Hardware Relocate: In preparation for the arrival of the NanoRacks payload investigations on SpX-9, the crew relocated NanoRacks hardware from the NanoRacks Plate Reader installation location before removing and stowing the locker.  NanoRacks Plate Reader is a laboratory instrument designed to detect biological, chemical or physical events of samples in micro-titer plates. Micro-plate readers are widely used in research, drug discovery, bioassay validation, quality control and manufacturing processes in the pharmaceutical and biotechnological industry and academic organizations.
Space Headaches: The crew completed the European Space Agency (ESA) Space Headaches questionnaire to provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crew members which can influence performance during a space mission. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pump Separator: Yesterday, the WHC pump separator light annunciated suggesting a malfunction of the pump. The crew brought the WHC to internal EDV and ran the separator for 3 minutes to drain any excess liquid.  Following that drain, the light cleared and WHC was nominal for 3 uses while still on internal EDV. The crew reconfigured back to Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) and performed troubleshooting where the ground teams ruled out blockage in the UPA and cleared WHC for nominal operation. This morning the crew reported a high pitch noise coming from the WHC.  Ground teams believe this could be an indication that fluid has traveled into the pump separator bearings.  Crew performed an inspection of the interior of the rack and of the pump separator, which did not reveal any leaked fluid.  The WHC continues to be go for nominal use.  The installed separator pump has been in operation since January.  Two spares are available on-orbit.  Teams continue to monitor performance.
Dragon On-Board Training (OBT): In preparation for SpX-9 arrival scheduled for July 20, the USOS crew participated in a conference with ground teams prior to performing proficiency training on the Dragon mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into position for the start of the ISS Crew SpX-9 Offset Grapples Practice on July 15.  Next they translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 6 (WS6) to WS4. At the completion of preparing the MT for the translation, Controllers noticed that Umbilical Mating Assembly 1 (UMA1) showed a status of both mated and demated on Channel A so they performed the MT translation on Channel B.  They are investigating the issue. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

MARROW – Ambient Air Samples
Morning Inspection. SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test / Manual Controls
Morning Inspection, RSS1,2 Reboot / r/g 1460
CSA Blood Collection
CBEF Cable Reconfig
Auxiliary Computer System [ВКС] Laptops Antivirus Scan Check and Status Report / r/g 8247
CSA Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Download Data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (Start) r/g 2224
CORRECTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake / r/g 2769
CSA Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
CSA Sample Insertion into MELFI
Video Footage of Greetings / r/g 2768
Sample Retrieval from Glacier 2 freezer
CSA – Blood Sample Collection Closeout Ops
GLACIER1 Desiccant Replacement
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV
ARED Handover Video Review
PILOT-T. Preparation for the experiment r/g 2766
ARED Handover Orientation
Removal of GoPro cameras in Soyuz 731. Transfer of Video to Hard Drive. Flash card closeout ops. Start charging batteries
SAMS Equipment Removal
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops r/g 2766
СОЖ Maintenance
Mouse Habitat Unit (MHU) Cage removal from CBEF
NanoRack Plate Reader Hardware Relocate
Plate Reader Locker Prep
Equipment search and gathering, r/g review prior to recharging DC1 [СОТР[ expansion compensator and SM [СОТР[ КОБ2 with coolant r/g 2771
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops r/g 2765
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Bringing ODF up to date using Soyuz 731 delivered files / r/g 2767
WRS Water Sample Analysis
Preparation of DC1 СОТР loop expansion compensator for recharging with coolant(cleaning DC1 space behind panels) / r/g 2771
EarthKAM Experiment in SM Battery Changeout
CORRECTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake / r/g 2769
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Onboard Training (OBT) Dragon Rendezvous and Berthing Conference
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Download data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (end) and start backup r/g 2224
Progress 432 [AO] Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 1812, 1832
OBT -Dragon Robotics Review
PILOT-T. Experiment r/g 2764
OBT Dragon Rendezvous Procedures Review
Soyuz 731 HERO3 GoPro camera battery charge (4) closeout and stowage
PILOT-T. Closeout Ops r/g 2764
TOCA Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
In Flight Maintenance (IFM), Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Progress 432 [AO] Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 1812, 1832
WRS Maintenance
In Flight Maintenance (IFM), Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC), Full Fill
TOCA Data Recording
IMS Delta File Prep
WRS MRF Flow [Aborted]
SHD Weekly Questionnaire
EarthKAM Experiment in SM, Battery Changeout
CORRECTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake / r/g 2769
Soyuz 731 Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 2734

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Dragon OBT support
Nominal ground commanding.

