07-19-2009July 19, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/19/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday.  Ahead:  Week 8 of Increment 20.   Crew sleep cycle:  Wake 6:33am, sleep 10:03pm EDT.  EVA-1 Recap:   The primary purpose of yesterday’s EVA-1 was to prepare the JEF (Japanese Experiment Module Exposed Facility) for installation on the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  EVA crewmembers Dave Wolf (EV-1) and Tim Kopra (EV-2) successfully completed a 5:32 hr EVA.   During the re-mating of the LTA (Launch-to-Activation) cables from the JEF to the Shuttle dummy connectors, one connector could not be connected and was wire-tied to structure as an acceptable configuration.    The following tasks were accomplished during EVA-1 :  Removed and jettisoned the      JPM ABM MLI (Active Berthing Mechanism Multi-Layered Insulation) covers, Removed the JEM RMS      (Robotic Manipulator System) grounding tab, Reconfigured the JEF and      ICC-VLD (Integrated Cargo Carrier-Vertical Light Deploy) LTA cables , Removed the JEF EFBM      (External Facility Berthing Mechanism) MLI and disconnected the JEF-      to-Orbiter power cable, Removed the MAXI payload      contamination cover and stowed for return, Opened the Node-2 Zenith      CBCS (Centerline Berthing Camera System) flap in preparation as a backup      berthing location for HTV1, Reconfigured the CETA      (Crew Equipment Translation Aid) cart foot restraints and brake handles to      prevent interference with rotation of the SARJ (Solar Alpha Rotary Joint), Reconfigured the P3 MT      (Mobile Transporter) stop to clear it from the MT translation path, Released a bolt on the ATA      (Ammonia Tank Assembly) in preparation for tomorrow’s EVA-2, Opened the Node-1 Port      CBCS flap in preparation for the PMA3 relocation, Fully deployed the P3      Nadir UCCAS (Unpressurized Cargo Carrier Attach System) with the detent      tool which was an uncompleted EVA task from Flight 15A, As a get ahead task      installed two of six FPP (Floating Power Potential) connector sleeves on      the Lab, PMA2, and Node-1,  Due to time and suit      consumables constraints, the S3 Zenith outboard Payload Attach System      (PAS) deploy was deferred to a future EVA.    Major activities by the STS crew today included:  Unberthing ICC (Integrated      Cargo Carrier) with SRMS (Shuttle Remote Manipulator System) and place in      overnight park position, Translating the MT (Mobile      Transporter) from WS6 (Worksite 6) to WS7 in preparation for the ICC-VLD      handoff on Flight Day 6, Handing off ICC to SSRMS      and berthing to the JPM,  Calibrating JEMRMS, and  Preparing for EVA-2      (METOX, REBAs, EMU batteries, cameras) and 2nd Airlock Campout      by Dave Wolf & Tom Marshburn.    Later in the day, Padalka attended to the current experiment session with the Russian/German TEKh-20 Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall/PK-3+) payload, activating the turbopump in the Service Module (SM)’s Transfer Compartment (PkhO) for pulling a vacuum on the work chamber (ZB) in the SM Work Compartment (RO), then turning off the pump, conducting experiment ops in semi-automatic (manual) mode, closing the experiment out, copying & downloading data from the hard drive and downlinking them to the ground.    [Main objective of PK-3 is to study wave propagation and dispersion ratio in a dust plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber, at a specified power of HF discharge, pressure, and a varied number of particles.  Today’s experiment is performed with 9.2 µm (micrometer) particles, to study a two-phase linear structure development process (Relay-Taylor instability), evolution of boundary (to study surface phenomena).  PK-3+ has more advanced hardware and software than the previously used Russian PKE-Nefedov payload.]   FE-3 Roman Romanenko performed the following activities on his work schedule –  Performing preventive      maintenance on the Russian ventilation system, today cleaning the four      “Group B” fan screens (VT1, VTK1, VV1RO & VV2RO) in the SM      (Service Module), Using the CMS (Countermeasure      System), a component of the SKDS GANK-4M suite, to check for Vinyl      Chloride, Ethanol, and Ethylene Oxide in the SM  [CMS uses      preprogrammed microchips to measure for numerous contaminants such as      O-Xylol (1,2-Dimethylbenzol, C8H10), Hydrogen Chloride      (HCl), Formaldehyde, Isopropanol, Methanol, Toluene, Mercaptan, Sulphur      dioxide, Hydrogen cyanide, Phosgene, etc.], Completing daily IMS (Inventory Management      System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta      file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated      export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow,      Baikonur), and Performing the routine daily servicing of the      SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the      SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush      (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.    Roman also checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP-Moscow.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   FE-2 Koichi Wakata’s workday included the following activities –  Installing the newly      delivered right VIS (Vibration Isolation System) x-rotation dashpot on the      ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) and photo documenting the major      R&R steps with the G1 video camcorder (video to be downlinked at a      later time), Resetting the JEU (Joint      Expedited Undocking) Resolver in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Activating & starting      the JEMRMS (Japanese Experiment Module Robotic Manipulator System) Arm Bus      Monitor, Maneuvering the JEMRMS to      calibration start position, and Perform JEMRMS calibration      with EFU (Exposed Facility Unit) target view by TVC MA EE (TV Camera on      Main Arm End Effector), assisted by E-20 FE-2 Tim Kopra.    Thirsk set up the NUTRITION w/Repository gear for his third session, readying the equipment for the blood draw and for the 24-hr urine collections beginning tomorrow, with Frank’s assistance.    [The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood & urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]   At ~8:05pm tonight, the joint crew is scheduled for an in-depth one-hour review of procedures for the EVA-2 spacewalk, with egress scheduled tomorrow at ~11:33pm EDT.   Afterwards, at ~9:28pm, David Wolf (EV1) & Tom Marshburn (EV3) will begin their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) in the A/L (Airlock) with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe at ~10:08pm-11:28pm.  [Sleep for the ISS crew begins at 10:03pm.]  EVA-2 Objectives:  Egress      (11:28am) ICC      spare ORU (Orbital Replacement Unit) transfers (11:58am) JEF      Forward VE (Vision Equipment) install (4:13pm) EVA-2      ingress (5:53pm)    The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3), RED resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-4, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).    [The interim RED is being used in lieu of the ARED (Advanced RED) until the latter has had its damaged VIS (Vibration Isolation System) dashpot replaced and can be put back in service.]    Later, Thirsk transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on RED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  