07-16-09July 16, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/16/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Crew sleep cycle:  Wake 2:00am, sleep 9:58pm EDT.   CDR Padalka began his workday by attending to the current experiment session with the Russian/German TEKh-20 Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall/PK-3+) payload, activating the turbopump in the Service Module (SM)’s Transfer Compartment (PkhO) for keeping the vacuum chamber (ZB) in the SM Work Compartment (RO) evacuated.  The turbopump will be deactivated again shortly before sleeptime.    [Main objective of PK-3 is to study wave propagation and dispersion ratio in a dust plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber, at a specified power of HF discharge, pressure, and a varied number of particles.]   Padalka also worked with the KSPZ-RLS “Istochnik-M” (source, spring) telemetry reception & recording system (SPR TMI) system in the SM for receiving telemetry from the approaching Shuttle.   FE-2 Wakata set up the G1 camcorder system for his task of recording the arrival & docking of STS-127.   FE-1 Barratt started preparations for tomorrow’s Shuttle docking (~1:53pm EDT) by –  Recharging five D2X camera      batteries during the day [three batteries to be used for configuring      the cameras in preparation for the RPM documentation, the fourth &      fifth kept as backups for the actual RPM], Configuring the D2X      cameras with batteries installed (to keep Time/Date setting accurate), Setting up one BPSMU      (Battery Powered Speaker Mic Unit) at the Lab RWS (Robotic Workstation)      using prerouted cables, and the second BPSMU near the Node-2 forward hatch      for placement in the Discovery ODS after docking, and Performing a joint      procedures review of the RPM operations with CDR Padalka & FE-2      Wakata.  [The RPM is used by the crew for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the Shuttle.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Endeavour, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]   In the JAXA Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-4 Thirsk & FE-2 Wakata checked out EFBM (External Facility Berthing Mechanism) latch action from the EFBM BCDU (Berthing Mechanism Control & Display Unit)’s LED monitor and function-tested the BCDU.   Koichi serviced the THC IMV (Temperature & Humidity Control/Intermodule Ventilation) in the USOS (US Segment), configuring diffusers in the Lab to optimize air mixing for CO2 removal and installed a temporary (additional) air duct in Node-2 for increased Shuttle ventilation.   The FE-2 also hooked up the UOP DCP (Utility Outlet Panel/Display & Control Panel) power bypass cable at the CUP RWS (Cupola Robotic Work Station) for video coverage of the Shuttle approach with the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) cameras.   Afterwards, Wakata conducted a procedures review of the JEM RMS DOUG (JEM Robotic Manipulator System Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) software) for working with the   In further preparation for the 2J/A spacewalks, Bob Thirsk worked in the US Airlock (A/L) –  removing panels (10A2) as      a get-ahead for O2 setup on FD3, installing &      connecting an IWIS RSU (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System/Remote      Sensor Unit) accelerometer set for 2J/A docking data take, running off the      SSC-4 laptop, and powering up the A/L PCS      (Portable Computer System) laptop.    In preparation for the docking, Mike Barratt –  Supported the ground in pressurizing      & leak-checking the PMA-2 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 2) for ingress,      hatch opening and stowage after the Shuttle’s arrival [PMA-2, at      the ISS bow, will be the docking port for Endeavour tomorrow], and Temporarily relocated      three PBA (Portable Breathing Apparatus) units from the JLP (JEM Logistics      Pressurized Segment), JPM and COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) to the      U.S. Airlock, stowing them behind the ORCA for the 2J/A EVAs.    At the ER4 (EXPRESS Rack 4) in the Lab, the CDR activated the SAMS ICU (Space Acceleration Measurement Unit/Interface Control Unit) in Drawer 1 for taking structural dynamics readings during the Shuttle docking.   [SAMS is a distributed acceleration measurement system consisting of an ICU in ER4, and sensors in several payload racks including ER1, ER2, ER3, MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) Rack and CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack).     The FE-2 collected ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) fluid samples in the US Lab from the MTL (Medium Temperature Loop) and in the Node-2, one from the MTL, a second one from the LTL (Low TL) sample ports after flushing the sampling gear, for return to Earth.   Following up in Mike Barratt’s LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System) Phase 1 surface sampling experiment yesterday, Bob Thirsk took documentary photographs of the LOCAD incubation media.   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1,FE-3), RED resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-2, FE-3).    [The interim RED is being used in lieu of the ARED (Advanced RED) until the latter has had its damaged VIS (Vibration Isolation System) dashpot replaced and can be put back in service.]    Later, DeWinne transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on RED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  