
Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Maximum:  The crew set up and performed a Sprint VO2 Max exercise protocol. The subject completed their Flight Day 75 session with assistance from the other USOS crewmember.  The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 3:  The crew retrieved the Biophysics 3 Plate 1 from a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and allowed it to thaw before placing it onto the Petri Base and installing the base into the LMM.  The LMM was then placed into the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) for a Biophysics science run.  Using the three-dimensional structure of proteins, scientists can determine how they function and how they are involved in disease. Some proteins benefit from being crystallized in microgravity, where they can grow larger and with fewer imperfections. Access to crystals grown on the ISS supports research for a wide range of diseases, as well as microgravity-related problems such as radiation damage, bone loss and muscle atrophy. This investigation identifies which proteins would benefit from crystallization in space.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF):  The crew exchanged sample holders in the ELF and removed a sample that was lost in the ELF chamber. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Two Phase Flow:  The crew configured hardware and materials in the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) and activated the Two Phase Flow experiment.  Boiling normally removes heat by turning liquid into vapor at the heated surface, and that vapor returns to a liquid by way of a condenser which continues to cycle and make a cooling system. In the microgravity of space, the heat transfer rate must be changed because liquid and bubble behavior is drastically different than on Earth. This investigation seeks to build a database on the heat transfer efficiency of liquids in space that can be used in the design of high-performance thermal management systems for future space platforms.
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  The two Animal Habitats in use for RR-5 were cleaned and restocked with new food bars.  Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS
JEMRMS Final Activation Before JEMRMS Console C/O
Analysis of SM atmosphere for Freon using Freon Leak Analyzer/Detector (FIT)
[СКВ1] compressor replacement
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Two-Phase Flow Experiment Equipment Deactivation
JEMRMS Console Checkout
On MCC Go: [СКВ1] compressor telemetry connector demate
JEMRMS Deactivation Preparation After JEMRMS C/O
СКВ1] compressor replacement
Setup Dosimeter for Static Measurement
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber Adapter Plate Removal.
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
Two-Phase Flow Experiment Equipment Setup to MSPR
LMM MELFI Sample Retrieve
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Stow
On MCC Go Mating [СКВ1] compressor telemetry connector
[СКВ1] Compressor R&R, Recharging [СКВ1] khladon loop
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Open
LMM Biophysics Plate Installation
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Close
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Two-Phase Flow Experiment Equipment Activation
SM Atmosphere analysis using Freon Leak Analyzer/Detector (ФИТ)
On MCC GO ISS O2 Repress from Progress 435 (DC1) СрПК Section 1, initiate
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Retrieval
Rodent Research Habitat 3 & 4 Restock
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Sample Holder Exchange
On MCC GO ISS O2 Repress from Progress 435 (DC1) СРПК Section 1, terminate
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Sample Removal
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Installation
Countermeasures System (CMS) Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Conclude

Completed Task List Items

Replace KTO when full

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

MBS POA LEE HD Inspection

