07-11-2010July 11, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/11/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – crew rest day.  Ahead: Week 6 of Increment 24   At wake-up, CDR Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson, FE-4 Doug Wheelock & FE-6 Shannon Walker continued their current week-long session of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Tracy’s 5th, 1st for Wheels & Shannon, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Wheelock & Walker continued their Pro K session with the urine pH spot test after wake-up.   Also before breakfast & exercise, Doug began his monitored diet for his 2nd (FD30) Pro K session over the next four days.     [Wheels is free to eat whatever he likes but prepares a diet log, annotating quantities of food packets and drinks consumed and supplements taken during the day.]   Shannon’s Pro monitored diet session and diet logging closes tonight at 6:45pm EDT, and she started on another Nutrition/Repository/Pro K 24-hr urine collection session (FD30).  Wheelock’s urine collections will begin on 7/13.  Nutrition constraints apply for both as usual.   FE-6 also set up the hardware for her blood draw for the Nutrition protocol, scheduled for tomorrow, which will require the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).    Wheelock & Walker conducted another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   Kornienko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].   FE-3 also performed the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.   An additional task for Misha in the SM was the routine weekly inspection of the SVO SRV-K2M (Condensate Water Processor) hoses from the MF-R Diaphragm Separator Filter to the BRPK Condensate Separation & Pumping Unit.   CDR & FE-5 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Fyodor at ~5:55am, Alex at ~7:30am EDT.   The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]   Jobs listed for Skvortsov & Kornienko today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –  Another ~40-min. run of      the GFI-8      "Uragan"      (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D2X digital camera      photography with 800mm telelens (FE-3), A ~30-min. session for      Russia's EKON      Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial      photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X      camera (CDR), and A ~30-min. photography      session for the DZZ-13      “Seiner”      ocean observation program, obtaining NIKON D3 photos and SONY HD video      data on oceanic water blooms, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop (CDR).    New items shown on the US voluntary “job jar” task list are VO2max equipment transfer from the Lab to the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), suggested by Tracy, and the routine replacement of the KTO solid waste container of the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment).  Reboost Planning:   The next ISS reboost, by Progress M-06M/38P, is being planned for 7/16 (Friday), ~4:25am EDT.  Conjunction Advisory:   Flight controllers had a late notification of a new conjunction (Object 33977/COSMOS 2251 debris, from the 2/09 collision with IRIDIUM 33) with a TCA (Time of Closest Approach) tomorrow at 3:12am EDT.  This conjunction is currently a low risk.  No action required at this time.  Solar Eclipse:   A total solar eclipse will occur today over the South Pacific Ocean. The ISS will pass through the penumbral shadow on two orbits resulting in a partial solar eclipse for the crew from 2:19pm to 2:41pm and again from 4:06pm to 4:15pm EDT.   No CEO Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.   