
Payloads
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): The crew retrieved the JEM WRS and performed inspections of the left, top and rear inside of the unit as well as checking fitting and coupler connections. Photos were taken and downloaded to the ground for evaluation. The Demonstration of JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS) generates potable water from urine. In the past on manned spacecraft, urine and waste water were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
MAND (Manufacturing Device): The crew removed four calibration print wedges from the Manufacturing Device. The crew cleaned the extruder print nozzle. The print wedges were labeled, photographed and stowed. Power switches were set in preparation for the next print run. The Manufacturing Device enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the MAND printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. MAND is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Systems
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Swap: Today, the crew swapped from the S6 to the P6 CCAA in the Lab. Recently the Lab cabin temperature has been drifting slightly above the cabin setpoint, even with maximum airflow through the starboard CCAA Heat Exchanger (HX). Ground teams have already calculated the heat transfer for the S6 heat exchanger. The swapover will allow the team to perform the heat transfer calculations on the P6 CCAA HX to compare with the S6 CCAA HX.
Emergency Mask Procedure Review On-Board Training (OBT): The crew reviewed and practiced the emergency mask don/purge technique for an ammonia leak scenario. This is nominal training to maintain crew proficiency using emergency masks.
EVA Preparations: In preparation for US EVA #67 (S6 Battery EVA #3), the crew completed their pre-EVA tool configurations. Tomorrow, the crew will perform a final tool audit to ensure all of the necessary tools and configurations needed have been prepared. The crew also setup the EVA GoPro batteries for charging and then setup the EVA GoPro cameras. A checkout of the nitrogen quantity was performed on the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) as well as charging operations on the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Batteries (LLB) and Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) batteries. Lastly the crew performed a visual review of the EVA using the Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphic (DOUG) software. This session allowed the crew to view the step-by-step sequence of the upcoming EVA.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Ground Support for CCAA Swap

