
Astrobee:  The crew continued commissioning of the Astrobee experiment including collecting data inside the JEM for localization, and assisting with a series of movements using the Astrobee Free Flyer for mobility testing. The ground team noted they learn something from each of the steps in the commissioning and adjust future activities as needed. The robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the ISS. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, can perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Cerebral Autoregulation: Using the Cardiolab Portable Doppler and the Continuous Blood Pressure Device, the crew performed the final CA science session for the week and stowed the hardware.  As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The JAXA Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space.
Genes-in-Space 6 (GIS-6) Stow: The crew completed closeout activities for the session performed earlier this week. The investigation evaluates the DNA (Deoxyribonucleic acid) repair process in space for the first time by inducing DNA damage in cells and assessing mutation and repair at the molecular level using the miniPCR and the BMS tools aboard the ISS.  DNA is the blueprint for life; it carries all our genetic information. Since DNA is so important, making sure it stays intact is an incredibly critical process.
Two-phase Flow (TPF) Closeout: Following the completion of this series of experiment runs, the TPF experiment was closed out and the hardware was removed from the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR). TPF investigates the heat transfer characteristics of flow boiling in the microgravity environment. This experiment provides a fundamental understanding of the behaviors of bubble formation, liquid-vapor flow in a tube, and how heat is transferred in cooling systems.
On-Board Training (OBT) Dragon Rendezvous: In preparation for SpX-18 berthing currently planned for July 23, the crew studied reference materials and performed this proficiency training on the Dragon mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding the vehicle.
Completed Task List Activities:

HRF2 supply inventory
T2 bungee relocate

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


LSR CWSA performance test
SSRMS walk-off to N2
Payloads ops support

Look Ahead:
Saturday, 7/13 (GMT 194)
Payloads:


No utilization activities

Systems:

Crew off duty; housekeeping

Sunday, 7/14 (GMT 195)
Payloads:


No utilization activities

Systems:

Crew off duty 

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


XF305 Camcorder Setup
Cerebral Autoregulation Data Measurement
Onboard Training (OBT) Robotics On-board Trainer (ROBoT) Setup
IMS Tagup (S-band)
PILOT-T. Preparation for the experiment
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops
Cerebral Autoregulation Closeout
PILOT-T. Closeout Ops
Setup USLab Camcorder for ground inspection video of the Life Support Rack air outlet
Genes in Space 6 Biomolecule Sequencer Stow
SM atmosphere analysis using Freon Leak Analyzer/Detector (ФИТ)
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Two-Phase Flow Experiment Unit Closeout
SEPARATION. Activation of [СРВ-У-РС] system.Evacuation Ops. Starting Distillation Cycle 1
Astrobee OBT Review
Astrobee Procedure Review
Microgravity Measurement Apparatus (MMA) Laptop Terminal 2 (MLT2) Hard Disk Drive (HDD) Exchange 2
Astrobee Free Flyer Localization and Mobility Ops Part 1
SEPARATION. Evacuation Ops. Starting Distillation Cycle 2
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ [КОВ] for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
iPad Air 2 WiFi switch to CrewNet network
Visual Inspection by the crew, to verify no water was blow out of the Life Support Rack air outlet during the CWSA dry out activity
On-Board Training (OBT) Dragon OBT Conference
On MCC Go ISS O2 Repress from Progress 441 (DC1) СрПК Section 1, initiate
MRM1-FGB Screw Clamp Tightening
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Robotics Review
SEPARATION. Deactivation of [СРВ-У-РС] system. Log-file downlink
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Rendezvous Review
On MCC GO ISS O2 Repress from Progress 441 (DC1) СРПК Section 1, terminate
Astrobee Free Flyer Localization and Mobility Ops Part 2
Progress 441 (DC1) Stowage and IMS Ops
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Cupola Window Shutter #2 Close

 