
Cygnus Unberth: On Saturday, the crew completed the Node1 vestibule depressurization and started the associated vestibule leak checks. On Sunday, once the crew completed leak check activities, robotics ground controllers used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to uninstall the Cygnus vehicle from the ISS at 5:04am CDT. At 7:36am CDT, the crew released Cygnus and monitored its departure. Cygnus will free-fly for 15 days prior to re-entry and will deploy external NanoRacks satellites above and behind ISS during that time. After Cygnus departed, the Robotics ground controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position and supported a video survey of the Node 1 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) with the SSRMS Tip Elbow camera. Cygnus arrived at the ISS on May 24, 2018 carrying supplies and is now departing with trash for disposal.
Aerosol Samplers: Today the crew deployed an Active Aerosol Sampler (AAS) in Node 3.  While they were also tasked with installing an AAS in Node 1, they were unable to activate the unit once installed.  Ground teams are investigating the issue. The battery-powered AASs actively pull in air and collect particles using the principal of thermophoresis. This is accomplished by flowing the sampled air through a large thermal gradient in a narrow channel.  During this process, particles are driven to the cold side of the channel, where an electron microscope (EM) grid is held in place by a tiny magnet. When returned to Earth, these grids are easily removed and placed directly in an EM for analysis.
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS): The crew transferred a MICS ampoule kit to the ISS Portable Glovebag and broke the seal between the upper and center ampoules in each of the sample bags and mixed the contents in the ampoules with a spatula. Later in the day, the crew broke the seal between the center and lower ampoules and pushed the alcohol in the lower ampoule to cover the hardened cement sample. They returned each sample bag to the kit bag, and stowed it for return. The MICS investigation supports the evaluation of microstructure and material properties of benchmark cement samples.  Different responses to thermal and mechanical loading are expected and will be characterized in detail.  Positive attributes found in the hardening process due to the microgravity environment aboard the ISS will be reported with the intent of improving Earth-based cement and concrete processing. 
AngieX Cancer Therapy: Today the crew performed microscope operations for the AngieX Cancer Therapy investigation. The AngieX Cancer Therapy investigation examines whether endothelial cells cultured in microgravity represent a valid in vitro model to test effects of vascular-targeted agents on normal blood vessels. AngieX has developed a treatment that targets both tumor cells and vasculature, but needs a better model on which to test it. This study may facilitate development of a cost-effective method that does not require animal testing and which may help develop safer and more effective vascular-targeted drugs. 
Rodent Research-7 (RR-7):  Today the crew installed the Mass Measurement device in theMicrogravity Science Glovebox (MSG) to support rodent operations planned for next week. The RR-7 investigation examines how the space environment affects the community of microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract of mice (also known as the microbiota). It also looks at microgravity’s effects on multiple physiological systems known to be affected by the microbiota, including the gastrointestinal, immune, metabolic, circadian, and sleep systems. These studies should help explain mechanisms underlying interactions between these systems and the role of the microbiota in these interactions.
Materials ISS Experiment (MISSE):  Today the crew removed the Sample Carrier brackets from the MISSE Transfer Tray for return on the SpaceX-15 vehicle.
Node 2 Nadir Control Panel Assembly (CPA) Maintenance: The crew replaced a damaged CPA 4 Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) latch actuator power/data cable at Node 2 Nadir with a spare brought onboard by OA-9. During SpX-13 unberth, the crew noticed that the CPA-4 P1 to J5 connector backshell was cracked and had a loose screw; tape was used to maintain functionality until the spare could be flown and installed today.
Safety Video Survey: The crew filmed a Safety Video Survey of the interior volume of ISS today.  This video allows the ground team to assess the current vehicle configuration and identify any areas of concern related to ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, emergency egress paths, access to fire ports, and safety equipment, etc. The crew performs the Safety Video Survey task approximately every 6 months.
Dragon Cargo Transfer: Today the crew performed approximately five hours of Dragon cargo operations. Having completed vehicle unload last week, the crew has started working a new Cargo Transfer Message containing instructions on packing and loading cargo slated for return on Dragon.
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

МО-8. Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф1 Absorption Cartridge (begin)
File retrieval of the Sample 7 Re-Run
MELFI Trypsin Kit Retrieve
EML Reprogramming Cable installation
Cargo Transfer from Dragon
MRM1 Comm Config on S/G2
Removal of b/u БК-3М from Orlan-Mk No.4
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment setup.
Removal of БРТА-2 from Orlan-MK No.4 backpack.
TOCA Waste Water Bag (WWB) Changeout
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
TOCA Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment Ops on БД-2 Treadmill (MO-3 Test in Passive Mode).
AngieX Cancer Therapy Microscope Operations
KONSTANTA-2. Preparation and Execution 2.
AngieX Cancer Therapy Ops Session
Gather ESA items to be trashed from PMM
Aerosol Samplers Battery Charge
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS) Preparation
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS) 3 Ampoule Mix Ops
PILLE-ISS Panel Installation – preparation.
NODE 2 NADIR CBM CPA 4 LATCH ACTUATOR CABLE R&R
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ (КОВ) for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
Equipment setup for Orlan 5 leak check.
Activation of Orlan-MKC suit No.5.
СОЖ maintenance
Removal of БК-3М main enclosure from Orlan- МКС No.5 backpack.
MELFI BioCell Containment Bag Insertion
MELFI Fixative Return Bag Insertion
AngieX Cancer Therapy SABL CO2 Meter Setup
EML Reprogramming Cable removal
Installation of БРТА-2 on Orlan-МКС No.5 backpack.
EML Gas Valves Opening
Installation of backup БК-3М on the Orlan Орлан-МКС №5.
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS) 3 Ampoule Mix Ops
AngieX Cancer Therapy SABL CO2 Meter Teardown and Stow
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Teardown
Materials ISS Experiment (MISSE) MTT Bracket Removal
Rodent Research Gather 1
Installation of ИК Filter on Orlan-MK #5
поУЗ Purging of Elektron-VM after Shutdown
Installation of service accessories 31 and 32 on Orlan-MKS suit #5
Installation of water tank into Orlan-MKC No.5.
Cleaning of FGB Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger (ГЖТ) detachable screens 1, 2, and 3. (№696) Aerosol Active Samplers Hardware Deployment
ORLAN-MKS #5  water systems scheme installation
Aerosol Active Samplers Hardware Photography
Rodent Research 7 Mass Measurement Restock Procedure Review
PCS Laptop Relocate
Cargo Transfer from Dragon
Refill of water tank in Orlan-MKC No.5.
ISS SAFETY VIDEO
Progress 439 (DC1) Cargo Transfers and IMS Ops
Polar Desiccant Swap
Restow Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK)
HRF Generic Urine Collection Setup
Biomolecule Sequencer
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference

Completed Task List Activities:

OBT Cascade-Fail-RS [Completed Sunday]
ESA PAO LEGO [Completed Saturday]
KTO Replace [Completed Saturday]

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

AngieX Support
MICS Support

