07-10-2010July 10, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/10/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew off-duty.   At wake-up, CDR Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson, FE-4 Doug Wheelock & FE-6 Shannon Walker continued their current week-long session of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Tracy’s 5th, 1st for Wheels & Shannon, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Wheelock & Walker continued their Pro K session with the urine pH spot test after wake-up.   Also before breakfast & exercise, Doug began his monitored diet for his 2nd (FD30) Pro K session over the next four days.      [Wheels is free to eat whatever he likes but prepares a diet log, annotating quantities of food packets and drinks consumed and supplements taken during the day.]   Later in the day, Shannon set up the Nutrition/Repository/Pro K hardware for her 24-hr urine collections beginning tomorrow and for Wheelock’s urine collections beginning on 7/13.  Nutrition constraints apply for both as usual.    The six station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   As part of the uborka house cleaning, the Russian crewmembers conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).   Alex Skvortsov completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.,   Tracy Caldwell-Dyson retrieved the two passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) monitors deployed yesterday by FE-6 in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) at Bay D1, between the air duct return grids.  Their purpose was to catch any formaldehyde exuded by the acoustic foam padding removed later from the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) by Tracy.    [Two monitors are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]   Fyodor Yurchikhin set up pumping equipment, replacing the usual A-R transfer hose with a T2PrU air line, and started the usual bladder compression and leak check of the BV2 Rodnik storage tank of Progress M-06M/38P to get it ready for urine transfer.  Flush water was to be transferred to an EDV or caught in a towel.  38P is docked at the SM aft end, and its BV1 tank was discovered to have a small leak.  The equipment will be torn down before sleeptime, to be used on Progress M-05M/37P Rodnik tank BV1 (docked at DC1 nadir).      [Each of the spherical Rodnik tanks BV1 & BV2 consists of a hard shell with a soft membrane (bladder) composed of elastic fluoroplastic.  The bladder is used to expel water from the tank by compressed air pumped into the tank volume surrounding the membrane and is leak-tested before urine transfers, i.e., with empty tanks, the bladders are expanded against the tank walls and checked for hermeticity.]   At ~10:20am, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]   FE-2, FE-3, FE-4 & FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Misha at ~7:00am, Tracy at ~8:40am, Wheels at ~11:00am, Shannon at ~12:00pm EDT.   Jobs listed for Skvortsov & Kornienko today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –  Another ~40-min. run of      the GFI-8      "Uragan"      (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D2X digital camera      photography with 800mm telelens (FE-3), and A ~30-min. session for      Russia's EKON      Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial      photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X      camera (CDR).    Tracy’s voluntary “job jar” task list today suggested the VO2max equipment transfer from the Lab to the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) which she had recommended for.  It will also be hard-scheduled on Monday.  Reboost Planning:   The next ISS reboost, by Progress M-06M/38P, is being planned for 7/16 (Friday), ~4:25am EDT.  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Four -- Week 5)  2-D NANO Template (JAXA):     The sample was stowed in MELFI to extend sample life on 6/10.  The experiment was started on 7/9.   3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    This ISS backup radiation monitoring system remains non-operational.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    First sampling session for Shannon was completed this week.  First sampling session for Wheels is planned for next week.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.   BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    Returned with 19A.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.   CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    “Tracy, thank you for your work on the CSLM-2 experiment.  CSLM-2 has successfully completed 6 of 6 Sample Processing Units (SPUs).  The preliminary heater current data from the 6 SPU's indicates they processed correctly.  The sixth and final SPU with a heat soak of 5810 seconds was processed on 7/8.  The samples within the SPUs contain the scientific data that will be analyzed by the Principal Investigator, once the SPU's are returned to earth.”  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Active Measure, ESA):    The issue that no files from Detector 1 could be found after the latest data downlink on 6/30 is under investigation.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    EMCS activated in preparation of the GENARA-A run.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA): (Kids in Space):   “Two more Kids in Micro-G sessions are planned for next week.”   EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  Ferulate:    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):   “Wheels: Thank you for all your hard work on 7/6 removing the CVB Module - 20mm Pentane and installing the CVB Module - 40mm Pentane.  The constrained bubble has been completely formed.  We are presently about halfway through the first of six data runs planned for this 5 day operational period.  The co-investigator reports excellent data.”  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):    GENARA-A was started on 7/9.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):   No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    “HREP is operating nominally and 1292 images have been taken to date.  We have recently performed a camera survey to check the HICO lens, taken images of locations where we expect to get near coincident ground truth (east and west coast of US).  HREP has also acquired more imagery of the areas affected by the oil spill (coastline and marshes).  The Sun will soon be in position to enter the RAIDS spectrometers, so we will be safing the instrument.  RAIDS will be placed in sun-safe mode 7/10 (scanning will be stopped).  RAIDS will remain in sun-safe through 7/15, then resume normal limb scan operations with all sensors.”  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    “The ICV team would like to thank you for all your hard work to ensure a successful FD14 session.  We appreciate all of the crew notes, as they are very useful in helping the experiment team understand the current on-orbit environment and aid us in planning your future sessions.  We are looking forward to next week’s FD30 activities. Talk to you soon!”   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    “Thank you Tracy for all your help in the check-out of the KUBIK3!  From the TM received on-ground, all looked good.  The data files have been downlinked and provided to the PD team.  Full analysis is awaited, but so far it seems like KUBIK3 might be operational again. Big thanks!”  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Acquiring science data.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    5th and 6th run were performed on 7/5-7/7.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE7 is operating nominally.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.   MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   No report.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.   NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADIAK:   No report.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):   Dosimeter set-up performed on FD12 of ULF4.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    “Thanks, Shannon, for your PASSAGES session on 7/2!  The issue with the Wizard pop-up window is being looked into.”  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    Sample launched by 36P; was recovered by 21S.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “Tracy, Wheels and Shannon, thank you for your continued participation in Reaction Self Test!”   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    CB Cleanup and valve C/O will be performed on 7/2.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “All, you are currently completing a week of Sleep logging.  We will downlink the data later this month for PI analysis.  Shannon, thanks for downloading all the Actiwatches.  We have downlinked the data and the PI is currently analyzing it.”  SMILES (JAXA):    SLOC (submillimeter local oscillator controller) troubleshooting is underway.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    Feeder#1 was activated for SOLAR safing for 38P docking.  Next Sun observation window was predicted to start on 7/8.  Weekly calibration for SOLSPEC was performed on 7/2.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    “Thanks Wheels, for performing the EPM PCBA S/W Upgrade in preparation for the next SOLO execution.”    Space-DRUMS:    No report.    SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    A SPHERES test session is being planned for July.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Thank you Wheels for doing your first THERMOLAB session on 7/1!  The data have been downlinked and provided to the science team.  Thank you, Shannon, for doing your first THERMOLAB session!  The data have been downlinked and provided to the science team.”  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):     Acquiring science data.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    “Shannon, the science team was very happy with the scans images during your first VESSEL IMAGING session on 6/30.  The USOCs supporting the session were impressed by your very smooth execution!  Big thanks for the kick-off of this new ESA experiment, much appreciated!”  VO2max (NASA):    “Tracy, thank you very much for your help with Wheels and Shannon's first VO2max sessions.  Your skill at the calibrations has seemed to rub off as this is the most consistent success we have had with them to date for VO2max.  We copied your call about the nose clips on Wednesday and apologize for not having more available.  As was called up, more are arriving on ULF5 and hopefully that will arrive in time for you guys to get a chance to use them!  We are targeting your 4th session for about 2 weeks from now and look forward to working with you again.  Wheels, thank you very much for your help with Shannon's first session.  You both performed extremely well for your first in-flight sessions!  We are currently planning your next session (approx. FD 45) so please let us know if you have any feedback that you think could help in that process.  Shannon, thank you for the excellent work on VO2max on Wednesday!  The ground team, PI, and surgeon were all very impressed with your performance!  We look forward to working with you over the remainder of your mission.  Please don't hesitate to let us know any feedback you think will help in easing the complexity of this task.”  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   Through 7/4, the ground has received a total of 736 frames of E-24 CEO imagery for review and cataloging.  “We received 10 unsolicited frames, acquired on 7/2, which included excellent views of Polar Mesopheric Clouds over eastern Canada and the western North Atlantic.  Please feel free to provide us feedback on anything we can do to help you locate and acquire our targets.  We continue to look forward to seeing more of your CEO imagery.”:  Epsilon Aurigae Eclipse Observation:   ISS is participating in a significant astronomical observation program just getting underway, followed by thousands of amateur & professional astronomers: the Epsilon Aurigae Eclipse.   A specific star in the Constellation Auriga (Charioteer) called Epsilon Aurigae undergoes an eclipse (being occulted) every 27.1 years.  This has puzzled astronomers for nearly 200 years.  The eclipse lasts nearly two years which, with the 27.1 year period, means the eclipsing body must be gigantic.  There may be a temporary brightening at mid-eclipse.  There have been no satisfactory explanations to date for this.  Is it a giant cloud of gas with a doughnut-like hole, permitting the star to brighten during mid-eclipse?  The Sun’s proximity to Epsilon Aurigae, as seen from the ground, prevents observations by ground-based astronomers during mid-eclipse, but astronauts on the ISS, having a different aspect angle, can observe and note changes in relative brightness, as suggested by the AAVSO (American Association of Variable Star Observers) following a talk by NASA-Astronaut John Grunsfeld.  The method used by the crew is to compare the brightness of Epsilon Aurigae weekly with three other nearby stars of known & unchanging brightness.   CEO Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Epsilon Aurigae (looking left of track, above the limb of the Earth, to observe the brightness of this star, as compared to other stars in the Auriga constellation, described above.  Because of the current seasonal lighting conditions, during the northern portion of each of ISS orbits, the crew has about 10-minute windows today for viewing the star.  The uplinked times are near the beginning of this one window), Gaborone, Botswana (this capital city of about 200,000 is located near the southeastern border of the country on the Notwane River.  The station’s pass was in late morning light with clear weather conditions expected.  As ISS tracked northeastward over the northern hills of the Republic of South Africa, the crew was to look just left of track for the city just north of a sizeable reservoir), Ashgabat, Turkmenistan (this capital city of about 1 million is located near Turkmenistan’s southern border with Iran.  ISS had a nadir pass in mid-afternoon light with clear weather expected.  As it tracked over the deserts of northeastern Iran, it crossed several ranges of mountains before reaching the expanse of the Karakum (“Black Sand”) Desert.  Looking for Ashgabat just beyond the mountains at the edge of the desert), Volga - Ural Delta (ISS had a nice pass in mid-afternoon light just southeast of this target area with fair weather expected.  As it tracked along the north coast of the Caspian Sea from the west-southwest, the crew was to begin a mapping pass of overlapping frames.  Of particular interest is the coastal wetlands from just west of the Volga River to just east of the Ural River), Tunis, Tunisia (the Tunisian capital of about 4 million is also a large port situated on a sheltering bay in the northeastern corner of the country.  On this mid-afternoon, fair-weather pass the city lied very near nadir), and Mississippi Delta Region (ISS had an early afternoon pass over the northwestern part of this target area.   As the crew approached the south-central Louisiana coast from the southwest with partly cloudy weather, they were to look right of track for the Mississippi Delta and the Gulf waters beyond.  The ground has received no imagery of this area since early May, and CEO staff is seeking overlapping, mapping frames of the coastline and offshore waters to detect the impact on coastal wetlands from the Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster.  Although glint will not be present at this time, surface oil sheen may have been visible.”   