
Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Racks Health & Status Issues: This morning the Health & Status (H&S) telemetry from EXPRESS Racks (ER) 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 was reported to be toggling and extended telemetry from ERs 7 and 8 were lost.  While a warm reset of the improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG) for ERs 7 and 8 recovered extended telemetry, attempts to recover H&S through a Payload Multiplexer Demultiplexer (MDM) swap were unsuccessful and teams continue to troubleshoot. 
Micro-11: For today’s 5th run of the Micro-11 investigation, the crew checked out, configured and calibrated the Micro-11 microscope, thawed samples removed from aGeneral Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER), fixed those samples and loaded them into the microscope for imaging.  They then inserted the samples into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  There are a total of thirteen runs for the Micro-11 investigation.  Micro-11 examines whether spaceflight alters human sperm, by tracking the swimming patterns of human and bull sperm during spaceflight. This investigation also assesses other aspects of sperm functionality related to male fertility. As a result, Micro-11 provides fundamental data indicating whether successful human reproduction beyond Earth is possible, and whether countermeasures are needed to protect sperm function in space. 
Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) Rack:  This morning the crew removed and replaced the FSL Video Management Unit.  A second crewmember assisted by tilting the rack down to allow for the hardware changeout. This is part of the preparations for installation of the Soft Matter Dynamics experiment container next week.
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS): The crew transferred a MICS ampoule kit to the ISS Portable Glovebag and broke two ampoules in each sample bag and mixed the contents in the ampoules with a spatula. They then returned each sample bag to the kit bag, which was stowed for return. A total of eight MICS sessions are planned. The MICS investigation supports the evaluation of microstructure and material properties of benchmark cement samples.  Different responses to thermal and mechanical loading are expected and will be characterized in detail.  Positive attributes found in the hardening process due to the microgravity environment aboard the ISS will be reported with the intent of improving Earth-based cement and concrete processing. 
AngieX Cancer Therapy: Today the crew performed microscope operations for the AngieX Cancer Therapy investigation. The AngieX Cancer Therapy investigation examines whether endothelial cells cultured in microgravity represent a valid in vitro model to test effects of vascular-targeted agents on normal blood vessels. AngieX has developed a treatment that targets both tumor cells and vasculature, but needs a better model on which to test it. This study may facilitate development of a cost-effective method that does not require animal testing and which may help develop safer and more effective vascular-targeted drugs. 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 4:  Today a crewmember retrieved Biophysics 4 Plate 2 from a MELFI and allowed it to thaw before placing it onto the Petri Base and installing the base into the LMM.  The LMM was then placed into the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) for a Biophysics 4 science run. An issue with communications between hardware components prevented the completion of this run.  Ground experts are working with the crew on troubleshooting steps. Proteins are important biological molecules that can be crystallized to provide better views of their structure, which helps scientists understand how they work. Proteins crystallized in microgravity are often higher in quality than those grown on Earth. LMM Biophysics 4 examines the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity.
Aerosol Samplers: Today the crew deployed Active Aerosol Samplers (AASs) in Node 2 and the US Laboratory. The battery-powered AASs actively pull in air and collect particles using the principal of thermophoresis. This is accomplished by flowing the sampled air through a large thermal gradient in a narrow channel.  During this process, particles are driven to the cold side of the channel, where an electron microscope (EM) grid is held in place by a tiny magnet. When returned to Earth, these grids are easily removed and placed directly in an EM for analysis.
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer-14 (NRCSD-14): Earlier today, the crew depressurized and vented the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock in support of tomorrow’s NRCSD-14 cubesat deploy.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  Last night and this morning, robotics ground controllers in Houston installed Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean (HICO)/Remote Atmospheric and Ionospheric Detection System (RAIDS) Experiment Payload (HREP) in the Dragon Trunk.  This concludes the external robotics operations for SPX-15.  The ground controllers then configured the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) for OA-9 release on Sunday. After conducting a SSRMS walk-off to the Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF), they relocated Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF 1 to MBS PDGF 2 prior to grappling the Cygnus OA-9 spacecraft.
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry
BIOPLENKA. Activation of Cryogem-03 at +37°С setting
Power cycle NOD2 switch
CONSTANTA-2. Removal of cassette No.3-1 from ТБУ-В No.05 and setup on the panel for a 1-hour warmup
Single Stowage Locker (DRA15_F3A2) Removal from Dragon.
Magvector 3D Sensor Array Sample Exchange
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Cable Connection
FSL VMU2 Equipment gathering in preparation of VMU MkII installation
JEM Airlock Depressurization
MICROVIR. Removal of Cassette-M No.5-1 and No.5-2 from ТБУ-В No.05, photography and setup for а warmup
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems BioScience-8 Experiment Container Removal
Wireless Compose Tagmotes Don
CONSTANTA-2. Preparation and Execution 1.
Vacuum Cleaning area behind panels 405, 406 and MRM1 Interior
FSL Video Management Unit (VMU) MkI Removal and VMU MkII Installation
BioScience-8 MELFI Experiment Container Insertion
MICROVIR. Glovebox-S hardware prep.
Active Aerosol Samplers reprogram to ISS Mode.
MICROVIR. Photography of Cassette-M No.5-1, No.5-2 upper cells. Squeeze out to the Glovebox, photography of the lower cells. Starting auto photography.
AngieX Cancer Therapy Microscope Operations
FSL rack tilting assistance
LMM MELFI Sample Retrieve
BIOPLENKA. Fixation of Constanta No.2-1 cassette biofilm and setup in ТБУ-В No.05. Insertion of Constanta-2 kit for incubation into Cryogem-03 (+37 deg C).
СОЖ maintenance
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
Progress 439 (DC1) time-critical, priority, and US cargo transfers and IMS ops
LMM Biophysics Plate Installation
Micro-11 Glacier Sample Removal 1
JEM Airlock Vent
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
JEM Airlock Vent Confirmation
Medical Consumables Tracking Hardware Remove
MICROVIR. Photography of Cassette-M No.5-1 and 5-2 cells
Payloads Network Attached Storage (NAS) Deep Cleaning
Wireless Compose Tagmotes Doff
Micro-11 Microscope Checkout
Micro-11 Microscope Operations
Replacement of Urine Receptacle (МП) and Filter-Insert (Ф-В) in [АСУ].  [АСУ] Activation after Replacement
Progress 439 (DC1) time-critical, priority, and US cargo transfers and IMS ops
Micro-11 Glacier Sample Removal 1
MICRO-11 Thaw Operations
SBC/ENet Jumper and EC Data Jumper Harnesses installation for the Video Management Unit (VMU) MkII in the FSL Rack
Gather Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK)
MICROVIR. Photography of Cassette-M No.5-1 and 5-2 cells
Micro-11 Microscope Operations
PCS Laptop Relocate
Progress 439 (DC1) time-critical, priority, and US cargo transfers and IMS ops
FSL Front Rack Restore
PCS Laptop Relocate
Wireless Compose SD Card Data Copy
NanoRacks Rock Candy Trash
Micro-11 MELFI Sample Return Bag Insertion
Crew reviews Big Picture Words in preparation for NRCSD deployments.
Micro-11 Microscope Operations
Micro-11 MELFI Sample Return Bag Insertion
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) On Board Training (OBT)
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS) Preparation
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS)  2 Ampoule Mix Ops
Crew reviews Big Picture Words in preparation for NRCSD deployments.
Micro-11 Microscope Operations
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
MICROVIR. Photography of Cassette-M No.5-1 and 5-2 cells
Micro-11 Glacier Sample Removal 1
MICRO-11 Thaw Operations
Micro-11 Microscope Operations
Micro-11 MELFI Sample Return Bag Insertion
Micro-11 Microscope Operations
Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Stow Operation and search for missing OA-8 FMK.
Micro-11 MELFI Sample Return Bag Insertion
Made in Space Fiber Optics Troubleshooting
МИКРОВИР.  Фотографирование  содержимого ячеек Кассеты-М  №5-1 и 5-2
BIOPLENKA. Retrieval of Constanta 2-2 cassette from Cryogem-03, film fixation and setup in ТБУ-В No.05.
BIOPLENKA. Photography during the Insertion into thermostat

Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEMAL Depress
C2V2 Activation
JRMS NRCSD #14 maneuver
SSRMS Walkoff to N2, SPDM Relocate MBS2 & Grapple OA-9

