
Mouse Epigenetics Setup Operations: The crew continued setting up for the Mouse Epigenetics experiment by refilling the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit with water, configuring the Glove Box, and gathering supplies to prepare for the investigation arriving on SpaceX-9. The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space, and also examines changes in the DNA of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space.
Gecko Gripper Setup and Operations: The crew attached the Gecko Gripper to various locations in the U.S. Lab to test a gecko-adhesive gripping device that can stick on command in the harsh environment of space. The technology promises to enable many new capabilities, including robotic crawlers that could walk along spacecraft exteriors; grippers that use a touch-to-stick method to catch and release objects; and sensor mounts that can work on any surface and be reused multiple times.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the International Space Station. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need. 
Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of the 47S crew and return to 6-crew operations, all crew members participated in this activity. Topics covered included crew accountability, escape vehicle readiness, ISS Commander responsibilities and use of the emergency response flow chart. Priorities in an emergency are safety of crew and safe configuration of the ISS.
On Board Training (OBT) Dragon Offset Grapple: In preparation for SpX-9 capture currently scheduled for July 20, the crew practiced grapple approaches. On the last approach of the session, the ground sent a safing command for the crew to practice a hot backup transition. Particular attention was given to managing volumetric constraints in the Cupola as well as lighting on the grapple fixture and how it changes.  After the OBT session, ground controllers maneuvered the SSRMS into position to be ready for next week’s SpX-9 rendezvous and capture.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pump Separator:  Today, the WHC “Check separator” light illuminated, indicating an anomaly in the WHC system.  A power cycle of the WHC recovered operability. 
S31A A CETA Light Reclose Test  – On May 11th the RPCM (RPCM S31A_A RPC 3) powering the S3-1 CETA Luminaire tripped and the DDCU 50Hz latched data indicated a real overcurrent event.  Today an attempt was made to reclose the RPC to verify the failure signature.  RPC tripped upon first attempt with same over current signature.   The go forward plan is to request R&R of the CETA luminaire. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

EarthKAM Experiment in SM, Battery Changeout
NEUROIMMUNITET. Saliva Sample Psychological Testing (Session 1) r/g 2799
CORRECTSIYA. NEUROIMMUNITET. Blood Sample / r/g 2799
CORRECTSIYA. NEUROIMMUNITET. Processing venous blood sample using Plasma-03 centrifuge r/g 2799
NEUROIMMUNITET. Venous blood sample processing (smear) r/g 2799
CORRECTSIYA. NEUROIMMUNITET. Handover to USOS for MELFI Insertion / r/g 2799
RUEXP Blood Sample Insertion into MELFI /
CORRECTSIYA. NEUROIMMUNITET. Closeout Ops / r/g 2799
PL CTB Transfer
Removal of the locker from the rack in preparation for Payload
СОЖ Maintenance
GLACIER1 Desiccant Replacement
NEUROIMMUNITET. Psychological Testing /  r/g 2799
Environmental Control & Life Support System (ECLSS) Tank Drain
Video Downlink End
Gecko Gripper Operations
Environmental Control & Life Support System (ECLSS), Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
Crew’s Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review
DAN. Experiment Ops r/g 2780
DAN. Experiment Operator Assistance / r/g 2780
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Mouse Habitat Unit Cage Water Refill
HABIT Video Recording
Glovebox Practice
IMS Tagup (S-band) / r/g 2798
Dust Filter cassette replacement
MERLIN 3 desiccant pack replacement
Mouse Epigenetics Item Gathering
HABIT Task Video End
PAO hardware setup
Crew Prep for PAO / r/g 2792
TV Conference with the Participants of Voskhod camp space tour r/g 2792
Food Frequency Questionnaire
Onboard Training (OBT) Dragon Attached Phase Operations Review
Purification Column Unit (БКО) R&R r/g 2797
EarthKAM Experiment in SM Battery Changeout
NEUROIMMUNITET. Hair Sample / r/g 2799
Progress 432 [AO] Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 1812, 1832
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 4 / r/g 2793
OBT Dragon Offset Grapple
Preventive maintenance of MRM1 АСП-О Hatch Sealing Mechanism and Soyuz 731 hatch / IRS Activation/Deactivation
Physical Fitness Evaluation (on the treadmill) r/g 2795
IMS Delta File Prep
OBT SSRMS Debrief Conference
Progress 432 Stowage Completion Report / r/g 1812, 1832
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
CONTENT. Experiment Ops / r/g 2794
NEUROIMMUNITET. Saliva Sample Psychological Testing (Session 2) / r/g 2799
NEUROIMMUNITET. End of ECG Recording. Close-out Ops r/g 2799
EarthKAM Experiment in SM – Battery Changeout

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Dragon OBT
Nominal ground commanding.

