
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device Kinematics (ARED-K): The acquisition unit was partially set up in Node 3 for a remote ground connection. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the ISS.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with YOTA, Carleton University, Ottawa, ON, Canada. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Lumina: Data was transferred from the Lumina device via EveryWear App on a crew iPad. Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina) is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Surface Avatar: The Surface Avatar laptop was set up and a software installation was completed. The robotic hand controller interface was set up, activated and checked out. The Surface Avatar: Multi-Avatar and Robots Collaborating with Intuitive Interface (Surface Avatar) investigation evaluates how effectively multiple robots can be commanded in scalable autonomy under conditions in space. Surface Avatar also seeks to provide information on how well the robot operator responds to haptic feedback, and crucially, what the challenges and sticking points are for a real orbit-to-ground setup to operate robots remotely.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Audits: Today the crew performed two audits. The ISS pin kit audit was performed as a result of a previous audit indicating an unknown quantity of excess supplies in the pin kit. The crew determined the exact supply quantity and created a bag for overflow supplies. The crew also performed a Node 2 spare tools audit.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Monthly Inspection: The crew completed a regular maintenance inspection to ensure the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition. The crew inspected all four Snubber Arms for any sign of free play, as well as make any necessary adjustments to reduce the free play. The crew also performed additional inspections for Sorbothane residue on Snubber Pins, the Snubber Pin position within the Snubber Cup, and all tape and witness markings on the T2 Thumbwheels, Snubber Jam Nuts, and Snubber Cup Housing.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Node 2 Zenith Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) and Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) Flow Measurement: As part of Station’s standard system health monitoring, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through ventilation inlets and outlets in the OGS AAA and Pressurized Mating Adapter 3 (PMA) 3. The IMV system circulates air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that ideal atmospheric condition is maintained throughout ISS.
Water Storage System (WSS) Water Resupply Tank (RST) Changeout: The crew changed out the full water resupply tanks 3 and 4 in WSS LAB1D4. The WSS resupply tanks are commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) tanks. The outer shell of the tank is a fiberglass composite that is sealed with an epoxy resin (not wetted). The interior of the shell is lined with polyethylene and the internal bladder is the polyether urethane material. Unlike most of the bladder tanks commonly used in space operations, the water is stored between the bladder and the shell (as opposed to inside the bladder). During transfer operations, the bladder is filled with compressed air which forces the water out of the tank.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Inspection: Today, the ISS crew completed regularly scheduled maintenance on the ARED Vibration Isolation System (VIS) Rails and Rollers, Upper Stop Cables, and X-Rotation Dashpots. The crew also provided feedback on ARED performance while the ARED Lift Bar was moving between Lower Stops and Upper Stops. This quarterly maintenance allows the ARED exercise device to keep operating nominally as well as verifying if any wear and tear exists on the hardware.
ISS Comm Data Converter (ICDC) Installation and Checkout: Today, the crew removed rack front hardware to access the LAB1S5 volume in preparation for the Lab ICDC installation. After gaining access, the crew installed the ICDC and ICDC Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Galois Counter-Mode Unit (AGU), and remated the power and data connectors. The ICDC is a new Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) built to replace the legacy encryption hardware on the ISS. After the installation, the rack front hardware was replaced.
Completed Task List Activities:

Hypervisor 5 Shell Swap [GMT 195]

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS PMA3 Survey
4BCO2 Activation/Commanding
JEM Airlock Ops
JEMRMS Ops

