
59 Soyuz Launch/Dock: 59S is scheduled to launch tomorrow, July 20, from Baikonur Cosmodrome at 11:28 AM CT carrying Aleksandr Skvortsov, Luca Parmitano and Andrew Morgan to the ISS. Docking to the SM aft port is scheduled at 5:50 PM CT with hatch opening at 8:04 PM CT followed by an ISS Safety Briefing with all 6 crewmembers. 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): The crew configured the video cable connection for the CBEF facility in preparation for Space Moss operations after SpX-18 arrival. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) sub rack facility, which contains an incubator with an artificial gravity generator.
LSG (Life Sciences Glovebox): The crew setup the LSG decontamination system into the LSG in preparation for Cell Science-02 arriving on SpX-18. LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crewmembers can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Materials Science Research Rack (MSRR-1): The crew replaced the older T61P laptops with the new Z-Book laptops and performed the software load. The MSRR-1 is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. MSRR-1 can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules (EMs). Many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
Plasma Krystall-4 (PK-4): The crew reviewed procedures for the Pk-4 Experiment Campaign. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the ESA and the Roscosmos, performing research in the field of low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles.
Lab Low Temperature (LT) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Flow Increase: The Lab LT Pump Package Assembly (PPA) speed was increased from 18900 rpm to 19843 rpm to increase available coolant flow for payload operations from now through the SpaceX-18 mission. This is the first of several enhanced flow configurations to be approved following on-orbit testing performed in June.
On-Board Training (OBT) Emergency Procedure Review: The crew reviewed emergency roles and procedures in preparation for 59S docking. 59S will dock to the SM Aft port to allow 60S unmanned technical demonstration docking to MRM2 next month.
Completed Task List Activities:

BEAM IMV flow measurement
CQ SSC hard drive setup

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


LSR commanding
Payloads ops support

Look Ahead:
Saturday, 7/20 (GMT 201)
Payloads:


Experience 59S arrival Recording (NASA)
59S AWS donning (NASA)

Systems:

Crew off duty; housekeeping

Sunday, 7/21 (GMT 202)
Payloads:


No utilization activities

Systems:

Crew off duty 

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Setup
CBEF and Image Processing Unit (IPU) Video Cable Connection
MSRR-1 ZBook Setup
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Sealing
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Swap
JEMRMS Backup Drive System (BDS) Reconfiguration to configuration #1
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Setup
JEM 120 VDC Cable Swap
Node 1 Forward Intermodule Ventillation Remote Manual Override Clear
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Swap
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Team Task Switching Experiment Survey
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Swap
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Lighting Effects Visual Performance Tests Light Setting
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Stow
MSRR-1 ZBook Setup
Team Task Switching Experiment Survey
Alternate Glacier Desiccant Swap
СОЖ Maintenance
Alternate Glacier Desiccant Swap
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
LSG Work Volume Deploy
Cell Science-02 LSG LSAH Setup
Plasma Kristal (PK-4). Familiarization. Session 7
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Stow
LSG Work Volume Stow
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace
TREK Software Troubleshoot
Overlay Camera Calibration
Polar Desiccant Swap
OBT Emergency Procedure Review
Crew Discretionary Event

 