07-15-2010July 15, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/15/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Upon wake-up, CDR Skvortsov terminated his 8th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  Skvortsov also performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  As part of the crew’s regular morning inspection tour, FE-3 Kornienko conducted the routine checkup of circuit breakers & fuses in the MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2).     [The monthly checkup in the “Poisk” module looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 & BPP-36.]  Also at wake-up, FE-4 Wheelock & FE-6 Walker conducted another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson retrieved & stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies, deployed by her on 7/13 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.    [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]  Tracy also powered up the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment) equipment and then took about 1.5 hrs to run fluid tests with the ICF1 (Interior Corner Flow 1) hardware.  The experiment was recorded on Mini-DVCAM tapes and downlinked in real time, with the first 15 mins to verify the camera's field of view and to ensure the Dry Surface Test was being recorded at MCC-Houston since this step was not repeatable.  The MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) high-definition TV system was then powered down.     [CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  ICF is one of three CFE experiments, the others being Vane Gap (VG) and Contact Line (CL).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]  FE-2 started another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.     [This was the 10th session with the new GC/DMS unit (#1004), after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  Doug Wheelock turned off the Cupola RWS (Robotic Workstation) and the Airlock PCS (Portable Computer System).  Skvortsov performed an O2 repress from 38P section 2 tank.  TsUP-Moscow informed the crew to open the valve and leave it open until all contents of the tank was emptied, resulting in a 9.5 mmHg (12.8 kg) repress.  Shannon Walker made preparations for her next ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment session, Ambulatory Monitoring, her second, scheduled tomorrow.    [For preparation, Shannon charged four Makita power tool batteries throughout the day, installed Li (lithium) batteries in two ICV Actiwatches (hip/waist & ankle) and used the HRF PC1 laptop and Reader to initialize the Actiwatches and format two HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi CF memory cards.]  With the assistance of Doug Wheelock for hardware setup, readying food items and providing video coverage, Walker supported the new ESA TIS (Taste in Space) experiment in the SM (Service Module) as test subject.    [TIS is an educational activity that compares the results of a blind tasting of 6 different food items on the ground and in space.  TIS is conducted once by a single test subject in the RS (Russian Segment), with the help of another crewmember.  During the experiment performance, the test subject is required to answer questions as per experiment script which is recorded using a Lavalier microphone hooked up to the G1 camcorder.]  Wheelock & Walker conducted the second onboard JAXA HAIR experiment (after Soichi Noguchi & TJ Creamer), each one taking hair samples of the other, then inserting them into MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) at -95 degC and closing out the activity.  Afterwards, Shannon unstowed & readied the two CDs (Compact Disks) at the COL PWS1 (Columbus Orbital Laboratory Portable Workstation 1) required for the upcoming PWS1 software reload.  FE-3 Kornienko & FE-5 Yurchikhin joined up in the DC1 Docking Compartment for ~2 hrs for more preparations for their EVA-25 on 7/26, today laying out & inspecting the replaceable elements, service gear and personal items for their Orlan-MK spacesuits.  Mikhail Kornienko later broke and set up the equipment for a test of the Russian SSTV (Slow Scan TV) equipment of the MAI-75 experiment as part of OBR-3 (Obrazovanie-3, Education 3) ops.  This is essentially an ARISS ham radio set-up with Kenwood TM D700 Transceiver and Kenwood VS-N1 (Visual Communicator) gear for downlinking photographic images of the overflown terrain to ground stations (MAI, Kursk, Star City & other stations around the world).  Later in the day, the test radio session was terminated.  To date, there have been 6 runs with MAI-75 on board the ISS.     [The payload is named after the renowned MAI (Moscow Aviation Institute) whose reputation is based on the large number of famous aviators and rocket scientists that received their academic education here.  Among the alumni are Academicians and Corresponding Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences.  Over 100 General and Chief Designers earned their degree at MAI, with famous rocket scientists like Makeyev, Mishin, Nadiradze and Yangel.  MAI also fostered 20 Pilot-Cosmonauts, almost 100 famous test pilots, Heroes of the Soviet Union and Russia.  The amateur radio (ham) equipment aboard the ISS for downlinking SSTV imagery is a MAI product.]  In the MRM1 module, Mikhail deactivated the BPP-2 (A106) fuse panel, with ground tagup support as required.  Misha also performed the periodic inspection of the hatch seals at COL port, JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) Starboard, JPM Zenith, JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment) Nadir & Lab Forward.    [This leaves the following hatches for a future inspection: Node-2 Stbd, Node-2 Port, Node-2 Aft, Lab Aft, Node-1 Fwd, Node-1 Stbd, Node-1 Port, Node-1 Aft, Airlock IV, Node-3 Stbd and Node 3-Deck.]  Fyodor Yurchikhin conducted his first onboard session of the Russian MedOps assessment MO-12, (“Study of the Veins in the Lower Extremities”), using the KARDIOMED (Cardiomed) complex with orthogonal leads which Oleg Kotov had unloaded from Progress 36P on 2/26 and installed in the SM.      [After loading the RSE-med laptop with the Cardiomed software, Fyodor set up the equipment, which involves KARDIOMED-TsB, KARDIOMED-KP, KARDIOMED-PMO and KARDIOMED-KRM assemblies with ECG (electrocardiogram) electrodes in a HOLTER monitor harness, a PLETISMOGRAF (Plethysmograph) instrument with calf measuring cuff, pneumatic hose, thigh occlusion cuff, hand pump & valve, and a DOPPLER complex.  A Plethysmograph (sometimes called a “body box”) is an instrument for measuring changes in volume within an organ or the whole body (usually resulting from fluctuations in the amount of blood or air it contains).]  After recharging their photo/video equipment batteries, Alexander & Fyodor set up for another 1h10m session of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program at SM window 9 with the NIKON D2X digital camera with 800mm telelens, targeting specific photo/video target sites  With the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and VD-SU ventilation control mode powered off, CDR Skvortsov worked in the SM, replacing an SBI ASP (Onboard Measurement System Network Connection Adapter) cable, remating connectors on TsUP Go.  Afterwards, Alexander supported the ground-commanded reactivation of the Russian Elektron O2 generator by monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.    [The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup. Elektron had to be turned off while the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system & VD-SU ventilation control mode were temporarily deactivated for the SBI ASP cable replacement.]  Tracy completed the chemical testing of two 60mL water samples collected yesterday from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) and SM SVO-ZV tap, using EHS C-SPE (Environmental Health System / Colorimetric Solid-Phase Extraction) analysis and the CWQMK (Colorimetric Water Quality Monitoring Kit), first establishing an Iodine standard, then completing the Silver standard and analysis.]  Doug completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.      [The current card (24-0007D) lists 125 CWCs (2,933.8 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (27 CWCs with 1,127.6 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 712.7 L in 17 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 129.4 L in 3 bags still requiring sample analysis, 128.3 L in 3 bags for flushing only with microbial filter, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (5 CWCs with 215.4 L, of which 1 bag with 43.6 L requires sample analysis, 1 bag with 42.5 L are to be used with microbial filter & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use;  3. iodinated water (84 CWCs with 1,550.1 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (1 bag with 20.5 L to be used with microbial filter & 6 empty bags; and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (1 CWC with 20.2 L & 1 empty bag).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  Caldwell-Dyson deployed the new SODF (Station Operation Data Files) procedures books with updates reflecting the current X2R9 software transition, specifically the Emergency Book, the POC (Portable Onboard Computer) and the MO (Medical Operations) Book.  In the COL, Shannon powered up the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) facility and its MLC (MSG Laptop Computer) for her first SAME (Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment) session and set up the SAME hardware in the MSG work volume, with Tracy covering the activities with photo/video imaging.     [Steps included installation of the sample carousel, alcohol wick and thermal precipitator prior to the first experiment run, followed later by opening the VES (Vacuum Exhaust System) and GN2 valves upon ground Go.  Later, FE-6 closed the VES and GN2 valves in the MSG work volume and turned off the experiment’s 120V power.]  FE-4 Wheelock set up video & equipment for another session of the experiment series called “Kids in Micro-G”.  Assisted by Tracy with video & photo documentation, Wheels then conducted the student experiment, today showing the effects gravity has on the motion of slingshot projectiles.      [The “Kids in Micro-G” suite of experiments was developed and written by 6th grade students to demonstrate Newton’s Laws of Motion both on ISS and in the classroom.]  Tracy conducted the routine maintenance on the prime CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) unit (#1058), first replacing the battery, then zero-calibrating the instrument.     [The CSA-CP is a passive cabin atmosphere monitor that provides quick response capability during a combustion event (fire). Its collected data are stored on a logger. Following zero calibration, the prime unit was re-deployed at the SM Central Post.]  At 1:20pm EDT, Tracy was scheduled for another VHF-1 emergency communications proficiency check over NASA’s VHF (Very High Frequency) stations, today with the VHF sites at Wallops (1:23:03pm-1:30:30pm), talking with Houston/Capcom, MSFC/PAYCOM (Payload Operation & Integration Center Communicator), Moscow/GLAVNI (TsUP Capcom), EUROCOM/Munich and JCOM/Tsukuba in the normal fashion via VHF radio from a handheld microphone and any of the USOS ATUs (Audio Terminal Units).     [Purpose of the test is to verify signal reception and link integrity, improve crew proficiency, and ensure minimum required link margin during emergency (no TDRS) and special events (such as a Soyuz relocation).]  Mikhail Kornienko performed the regular quarterly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization).     [This requires inspecting the condition of harnesses, belt slats, corner bracket ropes, IRBAs (Isolation Restorative Bungee Assemblies) and gyroscope wire ropes for any damage or defects, lubricating as required plus recording time & date values, and making sure that the display cable and skirt were properly secured afterwards.]  FE-3 unloaded 5 US SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) experiment food packages from MRM1 Rassvets and transferred them to the USOS (US Segment).  Afterwards, Mikhail also removed all remaining US CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) from the MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) for transfer to the USOS.   FE-4 Wheelock downloaded and saved the ECG (Electrocardiograph) data recorded for the last 24 hrs from his first session, started yesterday, with the JAXA biomedical experiment BIORHYTHMS (Biological Rhythms) and its body-worn digital Walk Holter ECG (Electrocardiograph).  Wheelock also gathered the gear used by him yesterday for the HRF (Human Research Facility) blood collection operations, removed the rotor from the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and stowed all the hardware.  Fyodor did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Alex completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  The CDR had another 90 min set aside for unloading Progress 38P and transferring cargo to the ISS, logging moves in the IMS.  Tracy closed the protective shutters of the Lab, Kibo & Cupola windows to prevent thruster effluent contamination on them from tomorrow’s ISS reboost, to be conducted at ~4:57am EDT with Progress 38P at the SM aft port.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-4), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  Immediately before her sleep time, Shannon is scheduled for the PanOptic eye test which requires application of eye drops (Tropicamide [Mydriacyl]) causing eye dilation for subsequent ophthalmic examination performed by Wheels as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) with an ophthalmoscope.  Tracy will break out & set up the hardware and later stow it away.     [The procedure, guided by special software on the T61p RoBOT laptop (#1026), captures still & video images of the eye, including the posterior poles, macula & optic disc with the optic nerve, for downlink and expert analysis.]  Software Transition Update:    X2R9 transition was completed yesterday (with some lessons learned).    Reboost:    A reboost of the ISS will be conducted tomorrow morning at 3:42:30am EDT, using Progress 38P Rendezvous & Docking thrusters.  The purpose of the reboost is to set up phasing for the upcoming Progress 39P and Soyuz 22S/24S flight operations.  Burn duration: 17m 45 s; delta-V: 2.1m/s / 6.9 ft/s.  Mean altitude increase expected: 3.6 km / 2.0 nmi.  CEO Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Dushanbe, Tajikistan (this capital city with a population nearing 750,000 is located in an agricultural area of the western part of the country at the confluence of the Varzob and Kofarnihon Rivers.  ISS had an early afternoon pass in fair weather over this target.  Looking just right of track for the city as ISS tracked northeastward towards high ranges of Tajikistan), Dead Sea, Israel (ISS had a fine, midday pass in clear weather over this landmark feature of the Levant.  The surface of the Dead Sea is 422 m below sea level, and the sea is 378 m deep making it the deepest hyper saline lake in the world.  As the station tracked northeastward across the Sinai Peninsula and Israel, look nadir for this elongated water body near the south end of the Jordan Rift Valley), Tripoli, Libya (this capital city of 1.69 million has been occupied since its founding in the 7th century BC.  It lies on a gentle bulge in the Libyan coastline.  As ISS approached the Mediterranean coast from the southwest at midday, the crew should have found this low-contrast target at nadir), Monaco, Monaco (the tiny Principality of Monaco is a sovereign city-state of just over three-fourths of a square mile in area.  It is located on the eastern part of the French Cote d’ Azure, between Nice and the Italian border.  This northeastward, nadir pass over this portion of the southern coast of France was in early afternoon with fair weather expected.  Looking the waterfront airport for Nice and carefully map along the coast to catch the coastal strip of Monaco to the east-northeast), Ampato Glaciers, Peru (this tiny group of glaciers is located on the summits of Sierra Ampato as well as several nearby volcanic peaks about 100 to 150 miles west of Lake Titicaca.  These ice fields and glaciers have been rapidly retreating in recent years.  ISS had a mid-morning pass in clear weather with its approach from the southwest.  When it crossed the Peruvian coast, the crew was to begin a continuous mapping strip at nadir to acquire context views of this target area), and Ile Rouleau Impact Crater, Quebec, Canada (ISS had a mid-afternoon, fair weather pass over this target area located in western Quebec Province southeast of Hudson Bay.  Ile Rouleau is a small impact crater [~4 km in diameter] and lies partly under water in the long, narrow Lake Mistassini.  After tracking eastward over James Bay, the crew was to begin looking just right of track and try for a context mapping strip to include southern Lake Mistassini).  