07-14-2010July 14, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/14/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   At wake-up, CDR Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-4 Wheelock continued his second session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.      [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken during the day.]  At ~3:55am EDT, Doug closed out the 24-hr urine collections for his 2nd (FD30) onboard NUTRITION / Repository / Pro K protocol and undertook the associated generic blood collection, with FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson assisting with the phlebotomy as operator.  FE-4 then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).      [The operational products for Blood & Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]  FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson performed troubleshooting activities on the EK (EarthKAM) system in the Lab which has a communication disconnect between its A31p laptop and the camera in the WORF (Window Operational Research Facility).  Repair attempts were unsuccessful.  Suspects are the EarthKAM software or the SSC (Station Support Computer).     [EarthKAM was to be activated on 7/12 for a new session.  This would be the 33rd time for EarthKAM aboard the ISS and the first time on Increment 24.  The payload runs without crew intervention.  EK is using a Kodak ESC 460C electronic still camera with 50mm and 180mm lenses, powered by 16Vdc from a 28V DC adapter, taking pictures by remote operation from the ground, without crew interaction.  It is available for students who submit image requests and conduct geographic research.  The requests are uplinked in a camera control file to the ThinkPad A31p laptop which then activates the camera at specified times and receives the digital images from the camera’s storage card on its hard drive, for subsequent downlink via OpsLAN. ]  Today was water sampling & processing time aboard the station, completed by TC (Tracy Caldwell-Dyson) who –  Conducted the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) in Node-3, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.  [After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged];Collected “Week 18” water samples in the SM (Service Module) for in-flight and ground analysis, taking them from the SRV-K Warm, SRV-K Hot and SVO-ZV taps  [collected were two 750 mL chemical postflight samples for return on ULF-5, three 125 mL in-flight samples each for microbial analysis, and one 20 mL sample each for in-flight silver detection (SDTO/Station Development Test Objective) using EHS C-SPE (Environmental Health System / Colorimetric Solid-Phase Extraction) analysis],Took water samples from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser)’s ambient “leg” for microbial in-flight processing, TOCA analysis & post-flight analysis [some debris was found in the PWD yesterday during PWD cleaning; ground is developing forward action]; andProcessed the inflight SM & PWD water samples with the WMK MCD (Water Microbiology Kit / Microbial Capture Devices) for microbial traces, and the CDB (Coliform Detection Bag) for inflight coliform indications (Magenta for Positive, Yellow for Negative).   [The activity must be conducted within 6 hrs after water collection from the PWD line.  The visual T+2 Day microbial (bacterial & fungal) analysis of the potable water samples will be performed on 7/16.]  FE-6 Walker completed the standard changeout of the TOCA’s WWB (Waste Water Bag), replacing the old bag with a new spare.  In Node-3, Doug Wheelock completed another RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) replacement on the WRS (Water Recovery System), stowing the old unit for return and the Tox-2 caps & plugs of the spare for re-use.  This activity, reported here yesterday as completed, was actually deferred to today.    [RFTAs collect the substances cleaned from the pretreated urine to turn it into water.]  CDR Skvortsov had ~3.5 hrs set aside for Progress 38P unloading and cargo transferring to the ISS for stowage, while updating equipment data in the IMS (Inventory Management System).  Afterwards, the CDR continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today working in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok).    [Using a vacuum cleaner and soft brush, Alex cleaned filters and fan grilles of the TsV1,2 central circulation ventilators, the detachable VT7 fan screens of the three SOTR gas-liquid heat exchangers (GZhT4), plus the fixed GZhT4 grill.]  Sasha also conducted the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]  Caldwell-Dyson, Wheelock & Walker joined up for several hours of working with the HMS USND (Health Maintenance System / Ultrasound) system.  After Doug set up the USND system, checked it out and cleaned data off the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) USND hard drive, Shannon, Doug & Tracy took turns as Subject for an eye examination scan executed by one of the others standing in as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).     [Walker later stowed the gear, and Wheelock had time reserved for restoring the payloads stowage in front of HRF-1 which had to be removed to gain access for the USND ops.]  Wheels also undertook his first session with the JAXA experiment BIORHYTHMS (Biological Rhythms), for which he donned the electrodes of the DWH (Digital Walk Holter) for ECG (Electrocardiogram) recording, then started the data take for the next 24 hours.  Shannon Walker continued her service of the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator), today terminating the 24-hr dry-out at ambient temperature, inserting fresh desiccant packs (#1043, #1036) from the cooler and reporting a current temperature of 25.2 degC.      [MERLIN, the Galley fridge, is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.]  Mikhail Kornienko & Fyodor Yurchikhin again spent several hours with equipment preparations for their MRM1 outfitting spacewalk, EVA-25, on 7/26.  Later, Kornienko conducted his 7th data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.     [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]  In the Lab, Caldwell-Tracy set up & configured the hardware for the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment), prepared the MWA (Maintenance Work Area, work surface only), secured the CFE on the MWA and positioned the HD (high-definition) camcorder for recording the sessions on Mini-DVCAM tapes.  For the first runs, Tracy selected the CFE Vessel ICF (Interior Corner Flow).    [CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  ICF is one of three CFE experiments, the others being Vane Gap (VG) and Contact Line (CL), for the study of different aspects of capillary flow of fluids in containers with complex geometries.  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1 & 2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]  Alexander made preparations for the upcoming replacement of an SBI ASP (Onboard Measurement System Network Connection Adapter) cable.  After charging the battery of the photo/video system of the GFI-8 Uragan (hurricane) earth-imaging program, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted another observation session with the payload from SM window #9, taking pictures of natural environment targets, including those showing man-made impacts on nature.  Sasha did the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Misha completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Tracy retrieved & stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies, deployed by her on 7/12 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.    [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]  Late tonight, shortly before sleep time, Skvortsov sets up the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and starts his 8th experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  At ~4:00pm EDT, Doug Wheelock is scheduled for another VHF-1 emergency communications proficiency check over NASA’s VHF (Very High Frequency) stations, today with the VHF sites at Dryden (4:01:35pm-4:08:49pm) & White Sands (4:03:04pm-4:10:10pm), talking with Houston/Capcom, MSFC/PAYCOM (Payload Operation & Integration Center Communicator), Moscow/GLAVNI (TsUP Capcom), EUROCOM/Munich and JCOM/Tsukuba in the normal fashion via VHF radio from a handheld microphone and any of the USOS ATUs (Audio Terminal Units).     [Purpose of the test is to verify signal reception and link integrity, improve crew proficiency, and ensure minimum required link margin during emergency (no TDRS) and special events (such as a Soyuz relocation).]  At ~4:25am EDT, the three Russian crewmembers had a joint PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- & Ku-band audio/video.  At ~10:25am, Tracy had her weekly PMC, via S- & Ku-band audio/video.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  Propellant Transfers:   HSG (Houston Support Group)/Moscow reports completion of 116 kg of fuel transferred from Progress 38P to SM.  188 kg of oxidizer is being transferred today, followed by more prop transfer to the FGB tanks.  OGA Maintenance Status:    Ground teams are working on OGA (Oxygen Generation Assembly) repair procedures.  Preparatory work is planned for tomorrow (7/15), followed by flushing and H2 dome replacement on Friday.  If all goes well, we would expect to receive O2 from OGA next Tuesday (7/20) earliest.  CEO Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Tehran, Iran (the Iranian capital with a population nearing 9 million is located in the northern part of the country about 70 miles south of the coast of the Caspian Sea.  ISS had an excellent nadir pass in clear weather at midday.  As it tracked northeastward over the desert of interior Iran towards the Alborz Range, the crew was to look nadir for this sprawling urban area), Volga - Ural Delta (ISS had a nice pass in mid-afternoon light just southeast of this target area with fair weather expected.  As the station tracked near the north coast of the Caspian Sea from the west-southwest, looking just left of track to begin a mapping pass of overlapping frames.  Of particular interest is the coastal wetlands from just west of the Volga River to just east of the Ural River), Mount Vesuvius, Italy (this 4,203 ft stratovolcano of Pompeii fame remains a threat to the nearby urban area of Naples in southern Italy.  Approach was from the southwest in early afternoon with fair weather expected.  Looking near nadir for this feature as ISS approached the coast), Roseau, Dominica (the crew had a nadir pass at midday over this target with partly cloudy conditions expected as it approached from the southwest.  The island of Dominica lies near the center of archipelago of the Lesser Antilles.  The small capital city of the island nation is located on the southwest coast), Nassau, Bahamas (this capital city of just over a quarter of a million is located in the northwestern part of the Bahamas archipelago on the island of New Providence.  ISS had a midday pass in partly cloudy weather with this target just left of track.  As it tracked northeastward from Cuba, the crew may have spotted Andros Island [the largest of the Bahamas]), and Slate Islands Impact Crater, Ontario (ISS had a mid-afternoon pass in fair weather.  Looking for this target just left of track near the northern shore of Lake Superior.  The Slate Islands were formed by a meteor impact approximately 450 million years ago.  The islands have a surface area of about 36 square kilometers, but the entire impact structure is approximately 32 kilometers in diameter.  As the crew approached the edge of Lake Superior from the west, they were to look for these, among other small island very near the coast.  Context, mapping frames of the islands and north coast of Lake Superior were requested).  