
Payloads
Astrobee:  In preparation for the upcoming Kibo Robot Programming challenge checkout, the crew reviewed the Astrobee On-Board Training.  The Astrobee team has been working for the past several weeks to map the Japanese Experiment Module to allow Astrobee navigation.  Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
BioMole Facility:  In preparation for the activities later this week, the crew performed a successful activation and checkout of the miniPCR and MinION systems. The BioMole Facility non-culture-based samples are capable of providing microbial identification on-orbit within days of sampling.  The goal of this Tech Demo is to conduct comparative analysis for possible replacement of current microbial monitoring systems. 
Colloidal Clusters: The crew removed the 3 Colloidal Clusters sample containers from the FROST refrigerator/freezer and mixed the components in the sample bags, which initiated the investigation.  The experiment will run for 48-72 hours, be exposed to ultraviolet illumination, and then stowed for return.  JAXA’s Colloidal Clusters investigates the mechanism for formation of tetrahedral clusters of negatively and positively charged particles suspended in liquid. These clusters are examined and characterized after return to Earth. The clusters may be useful as building blocks of future photonic, or light-manipulating, materials.
ExHAM (Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism):  In order to prepare for the ExHAM use of the JEM airlock, the crew removed and stowed the hardware used to previously deploy the NRCSD-18 (NanoRacks Cubesat Deployer – mission 18) satellites.  The crew then installed the HXP (Handhold Exp Platform) onto the MPEP (Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Assembly).  The ExHAM facility enables space experiments to be performed in the exposed space environment, by attachment to the Japanese Experiment Module Kibo’s Exposed Facility (EF).
Systems
Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Maintenance: The crew performed an EMU swap to bring EMUs 3008 and 3009 into the airlock to perform loop scrub maintenance.  The loop scrubs were completed nominally.
Quick Disconnect (QD) Maintenance: On June 4, the crew attempted to replace one of two Advanced Plant Habitat (APH) Environmental Control System (ECS) modules. During the activity the APH ITCS return QD leaked. Today, at the request of the APH team, the crew cleaned and re-lubricated the sleeve and internal components of the QD to return the system to nominal config.
Payloads Network Attached Storage (NAS) Cleaning: The crew cleaned inlet/outlet vents of the NAS to prevent the NAS from automatically powering off due to inadequate processor or Hard Drive cooling that can be caused by blocked vents.
Robotic Survey of SpaceX Demo-2 (DM-2) Thermal Protection System (TPS): On Friday and Saturday a robotic survey of the SpaceX DM-2 Dragon heat shield was performed. SpaceX reported that the survey was successful and no notable damage was indicated.
Completed Task List Activities:

76P USOS unpack (in work)
HTV cargo transfer ops (in work)
EVA tool stow (in work)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


EVA EMU maintenance support
Payloads ops support

