
Payloads:
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): Media bags were retrieved from the Iceberg-1 cold stowage facility and were temporarily stowed near the BFF facility. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe; however, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed their BFF experiment to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Confocal Space Microscopy: The temperature controller was installed into the Confocal Space Microscope. The Confocal Space Microscope (Confocal Microscope) is a JAXA facility that provides fluorescent images of biological samples aboard the ISS. Confocal microscopy uses spatial filtering techniques to eliminate out-of-focus light or glare in specimens with thicknesses exceeding the immediate plane of focus. With the Confocal Microscope, data can be obtained on the fundamental nature of cellular and tissue structure and functions in real-time.
Space Acceleration Measurement System-II (SAMS-II): Drawer screens were cleaned as part of scheduled maintenance. SAMS-II is an on-going study of the small forces (vibrations and accelerations) on the ISS resulting from the operation of hardware, crew activities, dockings, and maneuvering. Results generalize the types of vibrations affecting vibration-sensitive experiments and structural elements of ISS. Investigators and Structural Analysts seek to better understand the vibration environment on the ISS using SAMS-II data and assessment of station loads and dynamics.
Systems:
Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Water Separator (WS) Liquid Check Valve (LCV) Inspection: As part of standard operations following the LCV Removal and Replacement (R&R) last month, the crew inspected the LAB1P6 CCAA WS LCV for any excessive moisture buildup indicative of a leak. The crew reported no indication of condensation or fluid buildup, confirming the LCV R&R was successful. The CCAA circulates, cools, and dehumidifies air in the Lab, Node 2, Node 3, and the Airlock. The WS provides the necessary suction flow at the outlet of the condensing heat exchanger to remove condensate.
ISS Cable Video Survey: The crew performed an ISS plug-in cable survey to record areas and bundles of cables for ground to review function and need of the cables, as well as results of cleanup. Audio commentary was provided on troublesome locations and ideas on how cables might be better routed.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Instrumentation Box (EIB) Troubleshooting: As part of troubleshooting efforts following a failed ARED upgrade to install the EIB, the crew measured resistance at pin connections on ARED cables and the platform. The EIB is an instrumentation box that collects, processes, and transmits data generated by the ARED load and position sensors. The EIB was intended to replace the ARED Instrumentation Box (AIB).
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Completed Task List Activities:

PBA Photo
ITT Troubleshooting

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Life Support Rack Valve Check
Life Support Rack De-Activation Command
Repower the LAB1P6 CCAA after the CCAA WS LCV Inspect Activity
MT Translation
MSS Walkoff Maneuver
SSRMS LEE Diagnostics
SSRMS Boom Survey

