07-22-2009July 22, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/22/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Crew sleep cycle:  Wake 6:03am, sleep 9:33pm EDT.  Mission 2J/A’s EVA-3 was successfully completed.   Having begun at 10:32am EDT, the spacewalk was performed by MS4 Dave Wolf & MS2 Chris Cassidy and lasted until 4:31pm, i.e., for a duration of 5h 59m.    [EV1 & EV2 began their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) last night at ~9:33pm in the U.S. Airlock (A/L) with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe at ~8:28pm-9:33pm.  This morning, following the usual hygiene break/with mask prebreathe for Wolf & Cassidy at ~10:05am-10:30am after spending the night on 10.2 psi, the A/L hatch was closed again by Barratt for EVA preps in 10.2 psi, followed by EMU purge (~9:23am) and prebreathe (~9:38am) in the EMUs.  Afterwards, with CL depressurization (~10:28am-10:58am) and EV1/EV2 switching to suit power.]    EVA-3 accomplishments are:  Removed &      replaced two (of four) P6 truss batteries using the station robot arm      (SSRMS/Space Station Remote Manipulator      System); each battery has a mass of 375 lbs. Discarded      three JEF (JEM Exposed Facility) multilayer insulation covers and bring      one inside for future use, Prepared three JEL (JEM      Logistics Module) external payloads for transfer to the JEF, Cleanup & ingress.     Major activities by the STS crew today included:  Resuming EVA-3      preparations (METOX, REBAs, EMU batteries, cameras), Moving ICC (Integrated      Cargo Carrier) with SSRMS to WS8 (Worksite 8), near the P8 truss,     Upon wakeup, FE-1 Mike Barratt, FE-2-20 Tim Kopra, FE-4 Bob Thirsk & FE-5 Frank DeWinne continued their new session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Barratt, Kopra, Thirsk & DeWinne also completed the first part of the biomed experiment INTEGRATED IMMUNE by collecting liquid saliva samples from all of them.     [Along with NUTRITION (Nutritional Status Assessment), INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples & analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned on the Shuttle so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]   FE-2 Koichi Wakata set up the equipment for another session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, including configuring the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for the blood sample processing.     [After being allowed to coagulate in the Repository for 20-30 minutes, blood samples were spun in the HRF (Human Research Facility) RC and finally placed in MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  No thruster activity was allowed during the blood drawing.  The RC was later powered off after a temperature reset to limit wear on the compressor, and cleaned.  The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood & urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]   Additional activities by Mike Barratt today included –  Supporting preparations      for the EVA-3 by Dave & Chris (testing the camera equipment, assisting      with EMU purging, EMU pre-breathing, CL/Crewlock depress, and egress), Completing the regular      monthly session, his third, with the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems)      emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min.      exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer)’s acuity in a      number of critical health areas, Conducting the periodic      status & screen check on the payloads CGBA (Commercial Generic      Bioprocessing Apparatus) and ENose (Electronic Nose), both located in the      ER-2 (EXPRESS Rack 2), and,  After EVA-3 ingress,      taking care of the usual post-EVA tasks (photographing EMU gloves for      inspection, recharging EMUs with water, setting up METOX canisters for      regeneration, downloading D2Xs EVA photographs, recharging REBA batteries,      etc.).    Koichi Wakata closed the protective science window shutter in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) before the spacewalk,  Assisted with post-EVA EMU      battery charging, and Terminated N2      (nitrogen) transfer from the Shuttle after CDR Padalka had initiated the N2      repress of the ISS atmosphere earlier.      Tim Kopra spent time with –  Assisting with EMU      pre-breathing and CL depress activities, Spending several hours      with FE-2 Wakata on handover/familiarization tasks, Swapping the FE-2 exercise      protocols on the CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation), Taking care of the regular      daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment      Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service      Module), and Enjoying another hour of      general orientation (station familiarization & acclimatization) as is      standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after      starting residence, if they choose to take it.    Gennady Padalka’s work schedule today included –  Taking documentary      photography of the MLI (Multilayer Insulation) of the Soyuz 18S spacecraft      at the SA/Descent Module & PAO/Instrumentation/Propulsion Module from      the 18S Orbital Module window and SM window #9, for assessing MLI      condition, Activating the Gas      Analyzer (GA) in the 18S spacecraft, Checking out condensate      CWCs (Contingency Water Containers), and Initiating, later      terminating N2 transfer to the ISS.    Roman Romanenko had the following tasks on his timeline –  Auditing & pre-packing      SOGS (Pressure Control & Atmospheric Monitoring System) equipment for      disposal, verifying IMS (Inventory Management System) compliance, Activating the GA in the      Soyuz 19S spacecraft, Checking out the 19S      “pult” (console), Working with Gennady on      Part 2 of the Russian EVA tool & equipment inventory/audit, Completing the daily IMS maintenance,      i.e., updating/editing its standard “delta file” including      stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its      three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur), and Conducting the periodic      checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the      various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways.    In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Bob Thirsk turned on the EPM LPT (European Physiology/Module Laptop Terminal), installed NES/NeuroSpat (Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration) equipment, such as the MEEMM (Multi-Electrode Electroencephalogram Measurement Module) cables, free-floating & low-frequency head box #1, EEG (Electroencephalograph) cap with electrodes, etc., took documentary photography of the EEG cap and then had ~75 min for performing his second NeuroSpat exercise session, assisted by Frank DeWinne.  Afterwards, the gear was dismantled & stowed, the software closed down and the laptop deactivated.    [The MEEMM is a subsection of the EPM facility and will be used for different types of non-invasive brain function investigations. It can also easily be reconfigured to support research in the field of muscle physiology. NeuroSpat, the first experiment to use the EPM, investigates the ways in which crew members’ three-dimensional visual & space perception is affected by long-duration stays in weightlessness.]   An additional task on Bob Thirsk’s work schedule for today was the collection of water samples from the SM for ground analysis from the SRV-K hot, SRV-K warm, and SVO-ZV taps.    [FE-4 collected three 450 mL microbial postflight samples and two 750 mL chemical postflight samples for return on 2JA.]    For Frank DeWinne, additional tasks besides IMMUNE and SLEEP were –  Inventorying      & consolidating the contents of the CQMK (Coolant Quality      Monitoring Kit), delivered on 1J for collecting coolant fluid samples, Performing the periodic      manual filling of the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) flush water      tank (EDV-SV), which took about 35 min (WHC was unavailable during the      fill time),  Reviewing bio sample      transfer procedures with Bob Thirsk.    The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2-20), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-2, FE-3).    [Tim Kopra, the new Flight Engineer, started his onboard exercise regime on the CEVIS.]    Later, Wakata transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  