
Payloads:
Butterfly IQ Ultrasound: The fourth Medical Tech Demo of the Butterfly Ultrasound Device was performed. Butterfly IQ Ultrasound demonstrates the effectiveness of a portable ultrasound device used in conjunction with a mobile computing device in the space environment. Such commercial off-the-shelf technology could provide important medical capabilities for future exploration missions beyond low-Earth orbit. The investigation also examines the effectiveness of just-in-time instructions for autonomous use of the device by the crew.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF-L): The optical connector cap was cleaned and attached to the CBEF-L (Cell Biology Experiment Facility – Left) Centrifuge Frame. CBEF-L is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original CBEF currently aboard the ISS. CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Cerebral Autoregulation: Crew transferred items for upcoming Cerebral Autoregulation Data Measurement activities. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight, and provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): Troubleshooting was performed on the ELF Intelligent Vision System (IVS). The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in Kibo.
Electromagnetic Levitator (EML): Crew changed the measurement mode of the EML High Speed Camera to RECAL mode. The EML is a facility composed of four inserts installed into the European Drawer Rack (EDR) for the electromagnetic levitation of samples. The experiment samples are installed in a dedicated Sample Chamber that is attached to EML, and can be replaced by new Sample Chambers for new experiment batches.
Genes in Space-9 (GIS-9): GIS-9 Run 2 was terminated and samples were photographed and prepped for return and stowed. Cell-free technology is a platform for protein production that does not include living cells. GIS-9 evaluates two approaches for using this technology in microgravity: cell-free protein production and biosensors that can detect specific target molecules. The technology could provide a portable, low-resource, and low-cost tool with potential applications for medical diagnostics, on-demand production of medicine and vaccines, and environmental monitoring on future space missions.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with the Buehler Challenger & Science Center, Paramus, N.J. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Protein Manufacturing: The sample was transferred into a Box Module within MELFI-1 (Minus Eight-degree Freezer for ISS). Protein Manufacturing demonstrates bioreactor technology for converting inedible plant materials and other wastes into high-protein, edible fungal biomats in microgravity. The ability to produce fresh food in space reduces the amount of prepackaged food that must be taken along on missions, reducing launch mass and storage needs. This technology could contribute to the success of future human space exploration missions.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction – Growth and Extinction Limit (SoFIE-GEL): The SoFIE Chamber insert was removed from CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) and the Far Radiometer was removed. Trimming was performed on the shrink tubing on a cable. The SoFIE Short Duct was replaced with the SoFIE Long Duct and items were re-inserted back into the chamber; and rack doors were closed. The SoFIE-GEL investigation studies burning in microgravity, measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. Results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques, improving crew safety in future space facilities.
Space Fibers-3: The crew performed a data cable swap as part of troubleshooting efforts. The first sample run was aborted due to a misalignment. The failed sample was exchanged with Sample #2. Manufacturing Fiber Optic Cable in Microgravity (Space Fibers) evaluates a method for producing fiber optic cable from a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium, and aluminum, called ZBLAN, in space.  ZBLAN produces glass one hundred times more transparent than silica-based glass, exceptional for fiber optics. Microgravity suppresses mechanisms that commonly degrade fiber, and previous studies showed improved properties in fiber drawn in microgravity compared to that fabricated on the ground.
Systems:
Water Storage System (WSS) Compressor Troubleshooting: The WSS compressor was checked to see if it is connected to the Ku Band Power Supply and reconfigurations were performed as needed. The ground powered on the compressor and may call crew into additional troubleshooting actions.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis. 
Water Transfer Station Setup: As part of a formal agreement with IP Russia, the crew gathered and set up Contingency Water Containers Iodine (CWCIs) for transfer of USOS water from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) to EDVs for the Russian Segment. EDVs are intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Combustion Integrated Rack Hardware Configuration
PRO MSRR Deactivation Commanding

