
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  The crew collected saliva and body samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation and placed them inside a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS.  MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1-year period and how they change over time.  
Efficacy and Metabolism of Azonafide Antibody-Drug Conjugates in Microgravity (ADCs in Microgravity):  The crew viewed ADC cells with a microscope and fixated the BioCells. The ADCs in Microgravity investigation evaluates new antibody-drug conjugates that combine an immune-activating drug with antibodies in order to target only cancer cells, increasing the effectiveness of chemotherapy and reducing its side effects.  In microgravity, cancer cells grow in three-dimensional, spheroid structures that closely resemble their form in the human body, allowing for better drug testing. This investigation may accelerate development of targeted therapies for cancer patients.
Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Maximum: The crew set up and performed a Sprint VO2 Max exercise protocol today. The subject completed their Flight Day 105 session with assistance from the other USOS crewmember.  The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. 
Habitability: The crew narrated a task video while they tore down the microscope hardware used for the ADCs in Microgravity investigation. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crewmembers and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
Node 3 to Node 1 Sample Delivery Systems (SDS) Power Jumper Installation: The crew installed the SDS Power Jumper in the Node 1 to Node 3 Vestibule and mated the SDS Power Cable to the Node 3 bulkhead. This activity is part of the ISS Reconfiguration plan and is required to provide samples for the Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) in support of visiting vehicles berthed to Node 1.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Microbial Tracking-2 Sample MELFI Insert
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
Antibody Conjugates Microscope Operations
Voice check in S/G1 from Baikonur
JEM System Laptop Terminal (SLT) swapping from SLT 4 to SLT 6 Part 1.
Collect SM and FGB Air Samples Using АК-1М Sampler
Antibody Conjugates Biocells Fixation
JEM System Laptop Terminal (SLT) swapping from SLT 4 to SLT 6 Part 2.
SM Air Sampling for FREON Using АК-1М Sampler
ИПД Air Sample Collection for Ammonia in SM
В3 Fan Screen Cleaning in DC1
JEM System Laptop Terminal (SLT) swapping from SLT 4 to SLT 6 Part 3.
JEM System Laptop Terminal (SLT) Activation
Antibody Conjugates MELFI Sample Insertion
Habitability Narrated Task Video Setup – Subject
Plant Exp Unit Checkout Item Gather
Microscope Hardware Teardown
SPLANKH. Termination EGEG Recording and Closeout Ops
Galley Rack Configure
Habitability Narrated Task Video End – Subject
HRF2 PC 2 USB Load Installation Preparation
Food Acceptability Questionnaire – Subject
Sprint Portable Pulmonary Function System Setup Partial
Sprint Portable Pulmonary Function System Power Up
RS2, RS3 Laptops Inspection And Cleaning
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
Sprint VO2 Operations – Subject
On MCC Go RS1 Laptop Inspection and Cleaning
MARES Ultrabay Hard Disk installation
Crew Support LAN (CSL) 3 hard drive swap & Reload
Sprint Portable Pulmonary Function System Stow Partial
Measuring CO partial pressure at Central Post using CSA-CP analyzer
Replacement of CO2 Filter Unit ИК0501.
Antibody Conjugates MSG Hardware Teardown
ADC Thaw System Trash
Emergency OBT iPad Network Connectivity Test
HRF2 PC 2 USB Load Installation Conclude
Tropical Cyclone Untended Operations
RADIOSKAF. Closeout Ops
RADIOSKAF. Nanosatellite Prep Ops prior to EVA 

Completed Task List Items

Node 3 Sample Delivery System Power Jumper Installation [In Work]

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

ADC B Cell fixation support
Rodent Research habitat video

