
Biological Rhythms 48 Holter and Actiwatch Removal and Data Save: Upon completion of the Biological Rhythms recording session, today the crewmember removed the Digital Walk Holter Electrocardiogram (ECG) and the Actiwatch Spectrum from his body and saved the data collected from the holter and the multi-media card to the medical laptop. This concluded a series of activities for the Biological Rhythms experiment where two separate 24-hour Actiwatch measurement sessions were performed to study the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart functions by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
Fluid Shifts Operations: With operator assistance from the ground team, crewmembers continued the first week of the Fluid Shifts experiment run by configuring the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) hardware, the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) analyzer, and the Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) hardware, before completing a DPOAE test, OCT exam, Tonometry exam, and a CCFP test. The Fluids Shift investigation is divided into three segments: Dilution Measures, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging using the Russian Chibis Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) device. The experiment measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures.
Heart Cells Microscope Operations: The crew set up the Heart Cells microscope and removed the BioCell Habitat from the Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL) and the Multiwell BioCell from the BioCell Habitat. These items were inserted into the microscope before conducting Heart Cells operations and placing the Multiwell BioCell back into BioCell Habitat and stowing the BioCell habitat inside SABL-1. The investigation studies the human heart, specifically how heart muscle tissue, contracts, grows and changes (gene expression) in microgravity and how those changes vary between subjects. Understanding how heart muscle cells, or cardiomyocytes, change in space improves efforts for studying disease, screening drugs and conducting cell replacement therapy for future space missions. 
Mouse Epigenetics Maintenance Operations: The crew conducted standard maintenance operations by exchanging the food cartridge of the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit and completing Transportation Cage Unit dryout activities. The investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space as well as changes in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space.
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet were completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation. This investigation is critical during long-duration space missions, particularly those skills needed to interact with technologies required in next-generation space vehicles, spacesuits, and habitats. The crewmember’s fine motor skills are also necessary for performing tasks in transit or on a planetary surface, such as information access, just-in-time training, subsystem maintenance, and medical treatment.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of life onboard ISS, providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew inspected and confirmed that the Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs), Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs) and Pre-Breathe Masks are all free of damage. This maintenance is scheduled every 45 days to ensure continuous functionality of the units. 
SSRMS Operations for Pressurized Mating Adapter 2 (PMA2) Androgynous Peripheral Attachment System (APAS) Inspection – SSRMS ungrappled from SpaceX-9 and used the SSRMS Latch End Effector (LEE) camera to complete the PMA2 APAS inspection in preparation for the International Docking Adapter (IDA) ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) installation in August. No significant items were noted in the inspection. The PMA2 APAS is Go for IDA installation. Following the PMA2 APAS inspection, the SSRMS was maneuvered to its park position at the pre-grapple for Dragon Flight Release Grapple Fixture (FRGF).
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor / r/g 2888
Fine Motor Skills (FINEMOTR) Test
Scheduled monthly maintenance of Central Post Laptop.  Laptop Log-File Downlink.
Scheduled monthly maintenance of Central Post Laptop Laptop log-file dump, Handover
FLUID SHIFTS Hardware Setup
FLUID SHIFTS Unit Activation
Fine Motor Skills (FINEMOTR) Test
FLUID SHIFTS Measuring Pressure
FLUID SHIFTS Ultrasound Scan Operations
MOUSE Equipment setup for the experiment
Work Prep
BLR48 Saving Experiment Data
MCRSCPE Hardware Setup
FLUID SHIFTS. Ultrasound 2 keyboard operation assistance during scanning
DAN. Experiment Tagup with specialists / r/g 2780
DAN. Experiment Operator Assistance / r/g 2780
BLR48 Data Saving
XF305 Camcorder Settings Adjustment
MOUSE Habitat Cage Unit Maintenance
HRTCEL Biocell Sample Insertion into Microscope 
Crew Onboard Training (OBT) Self-Assessment Questionnaire
HRTCEL Experiment Ops
FLUID SHIFTS Test with the use of CCFP Analyzer
FLUID SHIFTS  OCT Baseline Exam
FLUID SHIFTS. Tonometer Eye Test with Remote Guidance
FLUID SHIFTS Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) measurement Test
FLUID SHIFTS. Hardware Deactivation and Stowage
Inspection of Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) and Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE)
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
MCRSCPE Microscope Exam Ops
FLUID SHIFTS. Tonometry Test
BIOPLENKA. Removal of cassette No.3-4 from CRYOGEM-03 thermostat, Fixation of Constanta No.3-4 cassette biofilm and setup in ТБУ-В No.04.
AQM Cartridge Replacement
FLUID SHIFTS. Tonometer Exam Operator
FLUID SHIFTS Tonometer Exam
FLUID SHIFTS DOFF Exam
FLUID SHIFTS. Hardware Removal and Stowage
Transfer water from Progress 433 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank 1 to SM Rodnik Water Tank 1, Equipment Configuration / r/g 2921
Vacuum cleaning ventilation grille on FGB interior panels (201, 301, 401)
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops r/g 2922
Preparing for SM ОДУ СУ БФК command generator R&R (procedure review, tool gathering, and work site setup) 
HABIT Habitability Walk-Through Video
Transfer water from Progress 433 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank 1 to SM Rodnik H2O Tank 1, compressor restart
POLAR1 Replacement of consumables
MRTIME Installation of Radio
TEPC Transfer
Transfer water from Progress 433 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank 1 to SM Rodnik H2O Tank 1, compressor restart
MRTIME Photography
Preparing for SM ОДУ СУ БФК command generator R&R (procedure review, tool gathering, and work site setup)
TCU Hardware Removal
Cleaning fan screens on FGB interior panels (116, 316, 231, 431)
Transfer water from Progress 433 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank 1 to SM Rodnik H2O Tank 1, compressor restart
POLAR2 Replacement of consumables
SPRINT Hardware Transfer and Stowage
Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Stow Operations
AIRMON  Hardware Setup
Transfer water from Progress 433 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank 1 to SM Rodnik H2O Tank 1, compressor restart
Progress 433 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank 1 Shell Compression
Fundoscope Setup for exam
Filters Replacement in FGB Dust Collectors. Discard de-installed items.
Fundoscope Setup for exam
Fundoscope, Eye Examination
24-hour ECG Monitoring (termination)
Fundoscope Setup for exam
24-hour BP monitoring (terminate)
Fundoscope, Eye Exam
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
Equipment stowage after Fundoscope Eye Imaging
HAM radio session from Columbus
Progress 433 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank 1 Shell Compression
 

Completed Task List Items

Dragon transfer ops [Active]

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Nominal ground commanding.

