
66 Progress (66P) Undock: 66P undocked from Docking Compartment (DC)-1 today at 12:45 pm CDT. Deorbit burn will occur at 3:58 pm CDT with destructive re-entry at 4:35 pm CDT.
Efficacy and Metabolism of Azonafide Antibody-Drug Conjugates in Microgravity (ADCs in Microgravity):  With assistance from the Payload Developer this morning, the crew viewed ADC cells with a microscope and injected media into the Multiwall BioCells. Later today the crew will repeat these steps with a second set of samples. The ADCs in Microgravity investigation evaluates new antibody-drug conjugates that combine an immune-activating drug with antibodies in order to target only cancer cells, increasing the effectiveness of chemotherapy and reducing its side effects.  In microgravity, cancer cells grow in three-dimensional, spheroid structures that closely resemble their form in the human body, allowing for better drug testing. This investigation may accelerate development of targeted therapies for cancer patients.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Camera Robot:  The crew set up the JEM Camera Robot and the ground performed a set of checkout steps. This device is a free-flying camera robot that provides real time video downlink and photographs.  It is expected to reduce the crew time requirements to support video recording of activities, especially at the blind spot of existing JEM internal cameras.
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Operations:  The crew pressurized the JEMAL and performed a leak check. They also gathered Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP) items to support changeout of samples on the Exposed Experiment Handhold Attachment Mechanism 1 (ExHAM 1) this Friday after the ExHAM 1 is retrieved from the JEM Exposed Facility.
Sprint Ultrasound 2:  For their Flight Day 90 Sprint Ultrasound 2 session, a crewmember, with support from an operator, configured the Ultrasound 2, placed reference marks on the calf and thigh of their right leg, donned the thigh and calf guides, and performed thigh and calf scans with remote guidance from the Sprint ground team. Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Arm Rope (CAR) Flip: Use of the exercise rope during cable exercises causes a portion of the CARs to experience cyclic flexural loads during operations. To mitigate this issue, the crew removed, flipped and reinstalled the CARs. This results in the ropes being “pre-stretched” which will double the life of the CARs, reducing the number of ropes that need to be built, tested and flown in the future.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Antibody Conjugates Glacier Sample Removal
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Install
Photo/TV Camera Mounting Assy Thermal Blanket Move
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Locating EVA hardware and tools
Sprint Ultrasound Operations – Subject
Sprint Guide Donning Operator
Antibody Conjugates Microscope Operations
24-hour ECG Recording (start)
Antibody Conjugates Inoculation
JEM Camera Robot Activation
JEM Camera Robot Flight Checkout Part 2 Support
24-hour Blood Pressure Recording (start)
JEM Camera Robot Deactivation
MELFI -1 Dewar 3 Inventory
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
ISS HAM Radio Power Down
JEM Airlock Press
Handhold Exp Platform #1 (HXP1) Item Pre-Gathering.
Monitoring shutter closure on windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14
Antibody Conjugates Glacier Sample Removal
JEM Airlock Leak Check
BEAM Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Duct Inspection and Cleaning
USOS Window Shutter Close
ESA Active Dosimeter Personal Storage Device Troubleshooting part 1
Antibody Conjugates Microscope Operations
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Termination
Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Gather
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. Equipment gathering for SSTV session
Antibody Conjugates Inoculation
MRM1-FGB Screw Clamp Tightening
Handover of EVA tools for EVA No.43 from USOS
Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Transfer
ESA Active Dosimeter Personal Storage Device Troubleshooting part 2
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Two-Phase Flow Experiment Equipment Activation
Photography of Progress 435 Docking Assembly from SM Window No. 7 while undocking from DC1
On MCC Go Mode DC1-Soyuz PEV to CLOSED position
Reconfigure LAB camcorder and Dual Canon Li-Ion Battery Charger to nominal config

Completed Task List Items

LAB O2-Port Configuration
Crew Quarters Radiation Brick Audit

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Sprint Ultrasound ops support
66P Undock
Charcoal Filter Packaging Verification

