
Payloads
Cell Science-04: The crew injected algae into the Cell Science-04 experiment bioreactors. The algae is used as a fuel source for the tardigrades in Cell Science-04. The tardigrade (aka “water bear”) is the model organism for studying biological survival under the most extreme environmental stress conditions on Earth and in space. The objective of the Using Water Bears to Identify Biological Countermeasures to Stress during Multigenerational (Cell Science-04) investigation is to characterize the molecular biology of short term and multigenerational survival in the space environment by identifying genes that are required for adaptation and survival in high stress environments. The findings from this study can be applied to understanding the stress factors of humans in the space environment, and identification of countermeasures.
Human Research Facility (HRF) – Veggie Profile of Mood States (POMS): Using the Data Collection Tool (DCT) on an available Space Station Computer (SSC), the crew completed a POMS questionnaire. The research of HRF Veggie focuses on the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space for various plants grown by other investigations.
Immersive Exercise: In support of an upcoming Immersive Exercise experiment session, the crew charged the Immersive Exercise wireless Virtual Reality (VR) headset. The Immersive Exercise project focuses on the development of a VR environment for biking sessions aboard the ISS. The VR equipment is interfaced with the current bicycle exerciser aboard the ISS, Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS), located in the United States “Destiny” Laboratory Module.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4): The crew performed the steps necessary to initiate experiment runs, with a goal of working through runs 46-49. InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Plant Water Management 3 & 4 (PWM 3 & 4): The crew prepared for the experiment session by transferring fluid and priming the system. Following this, the crew performed the day-1 wedge test operations with real-time feedback from the ground science team. The PWM 3 & 4 investigation demonstrates passive measures for controlling fluid delivery and uptake in plant growth systems. Reduced gravity creates challenges in providing adequate fluid and nutrition for plant growth. This investigation examines using other physical properties such as surface tension, wetting and system geometry to replace the role of gravity.
Systems
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Hardware Install: In order to install new hardware on EMU 3004, the crew removed EMU 3015 from the Forward EMU Don/Doff Assembly (EDDA) and installed EMU 3004. Next, the crew installed a High Definition EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) and Lithium-Ion EVA Helmet Interchangeable Portable Light (EHIP) Power Adapters (LEPA) on EMU 3004. All EMUs on-orbit are now outfitted with HECAs. HECA replaces the legacy right EMU RF Camera Assembly (ERCA) standard definition TV camera and is secured to the right Helmet Light via a Mounting Bolt. It is capable of streaming in both 1080p and 720p and commands can be sent to capture still imagery. The HECA is a collaborative technology between the Gateway/xEVA Project and the ISS/EMU program.
Boeing Starliner Orbital Flight Test 2 (OFT-2) Preparations: In preparation for OFT-2, the crew completed On-Board Trainings (OBTs) to familiarize themselves with the Starliner vehicle and the supporting operations including ingress, audio/video, cargo transfer, and contingency operations. Following the OBTs, the crew participated in a conference with ground teams. OFT-2 is scheduled to dock to the ISS on Saturday, July 31st.
Completed Task List Activities:

JEM Stowage Consolidation for NG-16 Pt. 2

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SSRMS Walk-Off to Node 2
SSRMS Survey of Node 2 IDA-F
ITCS A/L LTL Commanding for EMU Operations

