07-23-2009July 23, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/23/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Crew sleep cycle:  Wake 5:33am, sleep 8:33pm EDT.   Upon wakeup, FE-1 Mike Barratt, FE-2-20 Tim Kopra, FE-4 Bob Thirsk & FE-5 Frank DeWinne continued their new session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   FE-2 Koichi Wakata and FE-5 Frank DeWinne began the second day of his new session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, after the 8-hr overnight fast.    [This was an all-day session of urine sample collections for both several times until termination tomorrow after 24 hrs.  Bob Thirsk assisted the FE-4 in his blood draw.  Frank’s phlebotomy (blood sample collection) from an arm vein is scheduled tomorrow.  The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood & urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]   Before breakfast & first exercise, CDR Padalka & FE-3 Romanenko took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.  Afterwards, the FE-3 closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware.     [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]   CDR Padalka set up the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment and conducted the 1h15m session, his fourth, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop, equipped with new software, and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data stowed for return to the ground.     [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic & physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]   FE-1 Mike Barratt completed another session, his third, with the LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System) Phase 1 surface sampling experiment.    [LOCAD uses small, thumb-sized “microfluidic” cartridges that are read by the experiment reader.  The cartridges contain dried extract of horseshoe crab blood cells and colorless dye. In the presence of the bacteria, the dried extract reacts strongly to turn the dye a green color. Therefore, the more green dye, the more microorganisms there are in the original sample.  The handheld device tests this new analysis technology by sampling for the presence of gram negative bacteria in the sample in about 15 minutes.  Lab-on-a-Chip technology has an ever-expanding range of applications in the biotech industry.  Chips are available (or in development) which can also detect yeast, mold, and gram positive bacteria, identify environmental contaminants, and perform quick health diagnostics in medical clinics.  The technology has been used to swab the MERs (Mars Exploration Rovers) for planetary protection.  With expanded testing on ISS, this compact technology has broad potential applications in space exploration--from monitoring environmental conditions to monitoring crew health.]   Wakata and Padalka worked with the JEMRMS (Japanese Experiment Module Robotic Manipulator System), successfully unberthing three JAXA experiments and installing them on the EFU (Exposed Facility Unit),- MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-Ray Image), ICS (Interorbit Communication System), and the SEDA-AP (Space Environmental Data Acquisition Equipment – Attached Payload).    Koichi also swapped the GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator),   stowing the defect unit for post-return analysis on Earth. [GLACIER had been powered off on 6/15 in response to exhibiting loud noise and vibration as the fan speed was increased.  The crew removed the JAXA DomeGene samples from GLACIER and transferred them to the MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISSI).  GLACIER is scheduled to return on Flight 2JA.  Specialists will review the data and determine a forward plan.]   In the U.S. Lab, Bob Thirsk started (later terminated) another 5-hr automatic sampling run, the 16th, with the new EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-4 (Station Support Computer 4) laptop.   [The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  Today’s data will again to be compared with VOA and GSC (Grab Sample Container) measurements.  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS hardware.]   FE-3 Romanenko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers],   Gennady performed the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways.   At ~5:00pm EDT, the joint crew conducted an in-depth one-hour review of procedures for the EVA-4 spacewalk tomorrow, with egress scheduled tomorrow at ~10:03am EDT.   Tonight at ~7:33pm, MS1 Chris Cassidy & MS3 Tom Marshburn will began their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) in the A/L (Airlock) with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe at ~7:33pm-8:33pm and sleep.    [Tomorrow’s EVA-4 will focus exclusively on completing the P6 battery replacement task which was not finished in the shortened EVA-3.  Planned EVA duration is 7h 30m.  EVA-5 will be replanned following completion of EVA-4.]   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2-20), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-2, FE-3).    Later, Wakata transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty -- Week 7)  3-D SPACE:    “Thank you Koichi for completing this 3D-SPACE session on Wednesday. With the launch of 2J/A, this is your last in-flight session for this experiment. Thank you, Bob & Frank, for performing this second 3D-SPACE session!   AgCam (Agricultural Camera):   No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):   Standing by.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):   Microscope target test successfully completed on 6/19.   Biological Rhythms (JAXA):  No report.   BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:   “Koichi & Bob, thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Your next session is scheduled for 7/20.”   CARD (Long Term Microgravity: A Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):   No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility):   No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):   “Bob:  Thanks for completing your second ICV with CCISS session.  We will be downlinking the data later this week for the PI."  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Complete.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack):   See MDCA/Flex.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial 2 (JAXA):   Completed.  Commercial 3 (JAXA):   Completed.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):   Planned.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):   The rack is continuously active in support of the Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility (PCDF) experiment. EDR is providing power / data and temperature control (via cooling loop) to PCDF.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   ENose (Electronic Nose):   ENose had its last downlink on July 15 and was shut down after about 7 months of operation just after the downlink. We will be analyzing the data for the next few months. The ENose team thanks all the crew members who participated in making our technology demonstration a success, including activation in December, the weekly payload status checks, the confirmational events, and all the help in trying to troubleshoot our communications anomaly last month and turning the unit back on July 10. “Thank you in advance to the crew who stow us for transportation back on ULF3.”  EPM (European Physiology Module):   PCBA S/W Upgrade was successfully completed on 7/2, in preparation for SOLO execution.   EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):   “This week has been very productive having completed three EPO-Demos including EPO-Bernoulli-Demo, EPO-Eating-Demo, and EPO-LOCAD-Demo.  Excellent job on all three!  Thank you for your excellent talent on and off the camera.  Educators and students worldwide will benefit from your effort.  We look forward to completing more EPO-Demos during this Increment.”  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   “Video was successfully downlinked. You accomplished more than expected at one time. Good job.”   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   “It is nice to take photo not only from JPM but also from RS module.  We have 2 remaining sessions for Photo Moon. Session #6 will be 8/5 to 7. Session #7 will be on 8/23 (17A is not dock on the day) or 9/16.”  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):  “No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   “Video was successfully downlinked. You accomplished more than expected at one time. Good job.”   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  EuTEF (European Technology Exposure Facility):    EuTEF platform and its instruments have been running nominally during this reporting period.-- DEBIE-2, DOSTEL, EXPOSE: On-going science acquisition;-- FIPEX: Science script successfully performed from 7/2 to 7/13.  A new script has been started on 7/15;  - MEDET: On 7/6 the instrument had to be switched off due to low temperature (high ISS beta angle period).  With now more favourable beta angles, the MEDET instrument was switched on again on 7/15;  - PLEGPAY: A 5 days Long Duration Test (LDT) run has been performed between 7/8  and 7/12.  On 7/13, another 8hrs duration LDT run has been performed, followed by the start of a 20hrs LDT run, which unfortunately failed due to operator mistake. Some Langmuir probe measurements have been successfully performed later on that day. On 7/14, the EXP2 protocol was started, but from the telemetry the science team is confirming that the PLEGPAY cathode heater did not switch on properly. Science team is currently analyzing the downlinked telemetry of EXP2 run, while a LDT run is currently underway.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory):  “On 7/10, the Microgravity Vibration Insulation System (MVIS) commissioning has been started.  Some initial communication problems between MVIS and FSL have been encountered, solved by reboot and power cycle of MVIS.  Also some loss of communication between FSL and ground systems.  On 7/13, the commissioning got resumed successfully, and two successful file transfers have been performed.  So far, MVIS shows good telemetry. On 7/14, the tests of MVIS sensor, actuator and PSD have been carried out. The downlinked data is now analysed by CSA specialists.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   To be launched by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   To be launched by 34P.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):   No report.  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):  No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space):   No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):     Completed.  Marangoni Experiment for ISS in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):   No report.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):   Ongoing.   MDCA/Flex:  No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  MMA data downlink performed on 7/1.  FSL Optical Target #4 check-out was completed by 7/1.  MISSE (Materials ISS Experiment):  Ongoing.  Moon Photography from ISS (JAXA EPO):   No report.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY:    Ongoing.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):   Continuing radiation dose accumulation.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   On 7/11, the science team has declared the completion of the science objectives with the EP1 reactor (for so-called “Defect Cycle” run).  At this stage, all the EP reactors are kept at controlled temperature. Both EP2 and EP4 reactors show good and stable crystals for analysis after return on 2J/A (STS-127).  Ground teams are also consolidating the PCDF imagery archive by regular replays / downlinks of the EDR Video Management Unit (VMU). At this stage data integrity shows 99.1% of good images.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):   Ongoing.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):   Exposed Payload,- to be launched by 2JA.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):   “Mike, Bob & Frank we are currently targeting next week as another week of sleep logging.”   SMILES (JAXA):   Exposed Payload, to be launched by HTV1.   SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):     B-USOC has requested some imagery from the ISS external cameras to assess any movement of the SOLAR platform when left on Feeder#2 only configuration, i.e. when the platform is not motor-controlled. Imagery will be collected from 7/9 to 7/19.  Further confirmation of the S/W upgrade is expected at the start of the next Sun visibility window - expected to start around  7/20.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):   PCBA software upgrade was successfully completed on 7/2, in preparation for SOLO execution.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.  Swab (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   Complete.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    VLE-1 completed.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    Complete/Planned (2J/A Stage). No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   No report.  