
51 Soyuz (51S) Launch and Dock: 51S launched today at 10:41 am CDT carrying Sergey Ryazanskiy, Paolo Nespoli and Randolph Bresnik to the ISS. Docking occurred at 4:54 pm CDT with hatch opening at 6:58 pm CDT. There will be 4 USOS crew members on the ISS until 50S undocks on September 2.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF):  The crew exchanged sample holders in the ELF and removed a lost sample in the ELF chamber. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using electrostatic levitation. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  The crew set up hardware, reviewed materials and completed preparations for 4 days of operations scheduled to begin Sunday. Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system, it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  The crew collected saliva samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation and placed them inside a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS.  MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1-year period and how they change over time.
Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Ratcheting Noise: This morning the crew reported a ratcheting noise coming from CEVIS and provided audio/video of the noise for ground review.  While recording the audio/video, the noise stopped.  The crew performed a checkout using both programming and manual modes and reported nominal performance.  Teams discussed the noise and additional crew actions were requested to secure the CEVIS belt from potential slippage and to gain additional data.  CEVIS remains GO for exercise at this time.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday afternoon Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body to perform a video and imagery survey of the SPDM Latching End Effector (LEE) snare cables using the P1 Lower Outboard (LOOB) External High Definition Camera (EHDC).  They then maneuvered the SSRMS to a translate position in preparation for the Mobile Transporter (MT) translation to Worksite 8 on July 31.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities have either been completed or on schedule unless otherwise noted.

CSA Generic Frozen Blood Collection Setup
ISS Handover Ops Videos
Test video recording for Russia Today TV channel
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
Microbial Tracking-2 Body Sample Collection
Microbial Tracking-2 Sample MELFI Retrieval Insert
iPad Air 2 Install Part 4 of 4
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Install
XF305 Camcorder Setup
ISS HAM Radio and Video Power Down
Mouse Habitat Unit Interface Unit Installation
Review TV Coverage procedure Hatch Opening from MRM1 and Arrival of Expedition 52
USOS Window Shutter Close
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Backup Power Setup
HRF1 PC 1 USB Load Installation Preparation
Preparing For Upcoming MagVector Science Run
Long Duration Sorbent Testbed Status Check.
Rodent Research Gather 5
Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) Activation
Rodent Research 5 Review
Operation using TПK onbord datafiles. Soyuz Space Suit- 1,2 dry – start
Rodent Research Crew Conference
Monitoring shutter closure on windows 6,8,9,12,13,14
MPEG2 Multicast Test via Ku-band (Activation/Deactivation of TV data and MPEG2 Multicast controls)
HRF1 PC 1 USB Load Installation Conclude
Rodent Research 5 Setup
Gas Analyzer Activation in Soyuz
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Retrieval
СТТС configuration for Soyuz 736 docking to MRM1. Comm check with Soyuz 736 via RSA-S/G2
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Sample Removal
Preparation for Soyuz 736 Docking
Monitoring Soyuz 736 Rendezvous with ISS (MRM1)
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Sample Holder Exchange
Activation of TV Data and MPEG2 Multicast Monitoring Equipment
Monitoring Soyuz 736 Rendezvous with ISS (MRM1)
On MCC Go Activation of mpeg2 multicast video recording mode
Monitoring Soyuz 736 Rendezvous with ISS (MRM1)
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Installation
Dose Tracker Data Entry Subject
On MCC Go MRM1-SOYUZ PEV moding to ELECTR CONTR position
Closing Applications and Downlink MPEG2 Multicast Video via OCA
On MCC Go Soyuz 736 – MRM1 Interface Leak Check. Start drying two space suits
Comm reconfig after Soyuz 736 docking
Hardware Setup and Checkout in SM for Expedition 52 Arrival TV PAO Coverage from SM
Disconnecting КЛ-153М TV Camera from MRM1 TV System
Hardware Setup and Test Checkoui in MRM1 for Hatch Opening” TV PAO Coverage from MRM1
Soyuz 736-MRM1 Hatch Opening. Expedition 52 Arrival TV Coverage
Handover of the 3rd space suit and gloves for drying in Soyuz 735
Drying out of the 3rd spacesuit in Soyuz 735, start
ISS Safety Briefing
CSA Generic Frozen Blood Collection Setup
MELFI Overview OBT
Closing Applications, Deactivation of camcorders and TV data monitoring. Connecting TV Camera КЛ-153М to MRM1 TV System. Restoring Nominal Comm Configuration
Terminate Drying Suits 1,2
Set up the 1st pair of gloves for drying (Soyuz 736)
Reminder 2 Fine Motor Skills
Soyuz 736 Deactivation (w/o Gas Analyzer deactivation)
Transfer of Atmosphere Purification Filter Assembly АФОТ-2М from Soyuz 735 БО to Soyuz 736 БО
ISS HAM Radio Power Up
Space Headaches – Daily Questionnaire
Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Setup – Subject
Fine Motor Skills Experiment Test First Time – Subject
Finish drying the 1st pair of gloves and start drying the 2nd pair
Soyuz 736 Deactivation (w/o Gas Analyzer deactivation)
Fine Motor Skills Historical Documentation Photography
Terminate drying the 3rd suit, start drying the 3rd pair of gloves in Soyuz 735
USOS Window Shutter Close

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

SSRMS powerdown
Prep for 51S docking
Rodent Research ops preparations

