07-24-2010July 24, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/24/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew off-duty.  Upon wake-up, CDR Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also at wake-up, FE-4 Wheelock completed another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  The six station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  As part of the uborka house cleaning, the Russian crewmembers conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).  Skvortsov completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  FE-6 Walker filled out her weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  At ~8:50am, the Russian crewmembers downlinked a PAO TV message of greetings on the occasion of tomorrow’s 10th Anniversary of the successful docking of the ISS modules FGB and SM, on 7/25/2000 at ~8:44pm EDT (7/26/00 Russian time).  At ~9:00am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  At ~12:30 pm, Tracy Caldwell-Dyson held a practice/coaching conference with a PI (Principal Investigator via S-band/audio & Ku-band video.  CDR, FE-2, FE-3 & FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Mikhail at ~10:30am, Alexander at ~11:15am, Shannon at ~12:00pm, Tracy at ~3:10pm EDT.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]   EVA-25 Overview:  EV1 – Fyodor Yurchikhin, Orlan-MK#4EV2 – Mikhail Kornienko, Orlan-MK#6Wakeup:  7/26 – 2:40pm EDT (sleep shifted 12h40m)DC1 Hatch Open:  7/26 - 11:45pm EDTRepress:  7/27 – 5:45am EDTSleep:  7/27 - 11:00am EDTEVA Objectives (6 hrs.)  SM ATV docking camera R&RMRM1 C&DH, Kurs-P external cable routingJettison old SM ATV docking camera and empty cable reels  DC1 Prime A/L (SM PkhO Backup A/L)IV Crew:  22S crew (Skvortsov & Caldwell Dyson) isolated in MRM2 (Soyuz 22S on MRM2).23S crew in USOS (Soyuz 23S on MRM1).  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Four -- Week 7)  2-D NANO Template (JAXA):     The experiment was started on 7/9.  3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    This ISS backup radiation monitoring system remains non-operational.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    Returned with 19A.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    CubeLab Frame installation & checkout were successfully carried out on 7/12/10 & 7/16/10, respectively.  The 2nd Frame installation & checkout is planned for an upcoming week.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.  DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.  DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Active Measure, ESA):    Science data acquisition.  Monthly data downlink performed on 6/30. It seems no files from Detector 1 could be found. This anomaly is under investigation.   EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    EMCS active to support GENARA-A experiment. Please refer to GENARA-A.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA): (Kids in Space):   “Two more Kids in Micro-G sessions are planned for next week.”  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    Photos were taken on 7/22.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.  EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.  EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  Ferulate:    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):   The FIR/LMM/CVB team continued science operations from 7/15 to 7/19 with the CVB Module - 40 mm Pentane. Currently, operations with this module are approximately 70% complete. Operations are scheduled to restart on 7/27 to complete the planned 40 mm science matrix. The PI and science team reports excellent data collection and has discovered additional dynamic, boiling and interfacial events that were not observed in ground testing.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     “Tracy, a big thanks to you for providing us excellent support during our experiment operations.   We have successfully completed all the activities for GENARA-A.”   GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):   Sampling sessions for Wheelock and Walker were completed on 7/15.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 1376 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    “Shannon, the ICV team would like to thank you for your diligence in troubleshooting the Cardiopres cuff and Makita battery issues during your FD30 monitoring session which resulted in minimal disruption to the data. Ground teams are currently analyzing the Makita battery situation so we hope to have some options to help mitigate the charging problems for your future sessions. With the completion of your ICV FD30 Robocop session, you can enjoy a short break in ICV before your FD75 session. We are looking forward to talking with you in a few weeks!”  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:     “Shannon and Tracy - we have reviewed the video from the activity you executed on 7/9.  Great job drawing the spiders!  Again, narration was perfect.  Wheels and Tracy - Great job with Motion of Projectiles completed on 7/15.  The set-up was wonderful and we appreciate the results.”   KUBIK 3 (ESA):    “Tracy, thank you for setting up the two KUBIKs in dry-out mode configuration. This preventive activity will make sure that no risk of corrosion is expected during their extended stowage.”  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Acquiring science data.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    7th run was performed on 7/12-7/13.  8th run is planned on 7/16.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE7 Low-Rate Telemetry was turned off due to an unexpected problem that occurred after the PL MDM PEP R9 transition.  An interim solution to the problem has been put in place and the science data is being successfully received on the ground now.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    First carousel (6 samples) was successfully completed ahead of schedule. The carousel change-out is planned in the up-coming days.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   No report.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.  PADIAK:   No report.  PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):   Photos were taken on 7/23.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.  RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “Tracy, Wheels and Shannon, thank you for continuing to participate in Reaction Self Test! We have a downlink scheduled for 7/26. We look forward to receiving and reviewing your data.”  SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    CB Cleanup and valve C/O will be performed on 7/2.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Tracy, Shannon and Wheels, we have scheduled your next Sleep logging sessions to begin on Monday, 7/26.  Because there are only 6 Sleep log entries scheduled for next week due to sleep shifting, the seventh log entry has been scheduled for the following Monday, 8/2.  The data from your previous logging sessions will be downlinked on Monday for the PI to review.”  SMILES (JAXA):    SLOC (submillimeter local oscillator controller) troubleshooting is underway.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):    Sun observation window #30 started on 7/8.  Science measurements continued until 7/20, when we reached the end of the Sun observation window #30. At the very end of the window, SOLAR encountered again an AIB failure (known anomaly). The next Sun observation is predicted to start on 7/31.   SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    “Thanks Wheels, for performing the EPM PCBA S/W Upgrade in preparation for the next SOLO execution.”   Space-DRUMS:    No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):     “Shannon, thank you for your efforts this week during the SPHERES session. From the real time video we watched during the session, the JEM metrology check out looks very promising.  We are in the process of analyzing the downlinked data now and will share the results as soon as we can.  We are also looking at the additional science data from the Group B tests you were able to perform. This was a very smooth and successful test session and we look forward to the opportunity to work with you in the near future!”  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    “Dear Shannon and Wheels, thanks for your great efforts to collect many of the pre-selected food items for this tasting session. Unfortunately we ran out of time to complete this activity on 7/15, so we will have to reschedule it.”  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Thanks Tracy for collecting the THERMOLAB data as part of your VO2 Max session !”  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):     Acquiring science data.  Commissioning part II was foreseen to start on 7/14 by ground commanding, but had to be postponed to 7/16 due to loss of commanding capability at N-USOC facility.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    Acquiring data. Commissioning part II was nominally completed on 7/16.  VO2max (NASA):    “Tracy, thank you for your hard work and excellent job performing VO2max!  We have received the data on the ground and everything looks nominal so far.  We apologize for the frustrations you have had in performing the setup and instrumentation check and we will do our best to minimize these in the future.  Please continue to communicate your thoughts with us.  We appreciate your feedback.”  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   Through 7/20, the ground has received a total of 1,562 frames of E-24 CEO imagery for review and cataloging.   “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following targets with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists:    Ampato Glaciers, Peru – several best-ever frames of important parts of this target were acquired – additional imagery will be requested as opportunities occur; Johannesburg, South Africa - a single, good detailed view was acquired for part of this target – context views will still be requested; Dakar, Senegal –a small part of the target was acquired in a single, oblique view – context views will continue to be requested ; Basseterre, St. Kitts and Nevis – portions of the target area (Nevis) were acquired, but clouds apparently prevented views of Basseterre itself; Lake Nasser, Toshka Lakes, Egypt - several oblique views of this target area were acquired, more near-nadir views will be requested; and Coast Mountains, BC, Canada – a good set of individual (not mapped) frames were acquired of some of this target – best views we have seen in some time.  Both the quantity and quality of your imagery continues to improve as you become more familiar with our targets and procedures for acquiring them.”  CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Athens, Greece (the capital of Greece is an ancient city that dominates the south coast of the region known as Attica in the southeastern part of the mainland.  ISS had a mid-morning pass in fair weather over this sprawling urban area of more than 3 million.  As the crew tracked over southern Greece from the southwest, they looked nadir for this target), Baku, Azerbaijan (the capital city of Azerbaijan is located in the extreme eastern part of the country and situated on the south side of the Abseron Peninsula which juts into the southeastern Caspian Sea.  ISS approached from the northwest in mid-afternoon light with fair weather expected.  As it approached the coast of the Caspian Sea, the crew looked near nadir for this city of over 2 million), Pristina, Kosovo (the capital and largest city of Kosovo has an estimate population approaching 600,000.  Pristina in located near the eastern edge of an agricultural region know as the Kosovo Plain which runs north-south through the interior of the Balkan Peninsula in southeastern Europe.  ISS had a mid-afternoon pass in fair weather.  As it tracked southeastward across the Balkan, the crew looked nadir for this target), Nicosia, Cyprus (ISS had a late afternoon pass in fair weather over the Cypriot capital city.  As the crew tracked southeastward across southwestern Turkey, they looked for the island of Cyprus about 50 miles of the south coast.  Nicosia with a population of about 400,000 is located in the north central part of the island.  Looking nadir for this target), and Tripoli, Libya (this capital city of 1.69 million has been occupied since its founding in the 7th century BC.  It lies on a gentle bulge in the Libyan coastline.  After tracking over northern Tunisia you will approach the Libyan coast from the northwest in late afternoon light).  