
Fluid Shifts:  A crew member performed the second of two days of Chibis operations in the Russian Segment for the Fluid Shifts investigation. Subject donned the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP/Chibis) device while the operator, with ground support in Moscow, assisted in the medical monitoring.  While the subject was in the LBNP and experiencing the negative pressure (pulling the fluid feetward), the Crew Medical Officer performed Ultrasound measurements. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and to prevention of eye damage.
Two Phase Flow:  The crew deactivated the Two Phase Flow experiment in the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR).  Boiling normally removes heat by turning liquid into vapor at the heated surface, and that vapor returns to a liquid by way of a condenser which continues to cycle and make a cooling system. In the microgravity of space, the heat transfer rate must be changed because liquid and bubble behavior is drastically different than on Earth. This investigation seeks to build a database on the heat transfer efficiency of liquids in space that can be used in the design of high-performance thermal management systems for future space platforms. 
Capillary Structures:  The crew performed a Capillary Structures sorbent demonstration of flow through two parallel microgravity air-liquid contactor wedges with a viscous fluid. Life-support systems on the ISS require special equipment to separate liquids and gases including rotating or moving devices that could cause contamination if they break or fail. The Capillary Structures for Exploration Life Support (Capillary Structures) investigation studies a new method using structures of specific shapes to manage fluid and gas mixtures.  The investigation studies water recycling and carbon dioxide removal, benefitting future efforts to design lightweight, more reliable life support systems for future space missions.
Plant Experiment Units (PEUs): The crew set up the PEU laptop, photographed the PEUs for checkout, attached them to the CBEF Incubator Unit and performed checkout steps. Later they removed and stowed the PEUs.  These activities are being performed to verify ISS capability to support an upcoming JAXA plant experiment.
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Latching End Effector (LEE) Survey: Ground teams positioned the SPDM LEE near the P1 Lower Outboard External High Definition Camera (EHDC) and are currently performing a survey of the LEE. Imagery from this survey will be used to perform a SPDM LEE snare cable health assessment. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
URAGAN. Observation and Photography
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Tropical Cyclone Hardware Closeout
FLUID SHIFTS
Capillary Structures Hardware Gather
JEM Airlock Depressurization
Capillary Structures MWA Prep
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Two-Phase Flow Experiment Equipment Deactivation
Electronic Nose. Experiment Session
Experiment Laptop Terminal 2 (ELT2) Relocation
HRF Ultrasound Battery Removal
Plant Exp Unit (PEU) Experiment Laptop Terminal (ELT) 2 Setup
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
JEM Airlock Vent
Capillary Structures Sorbent Demonstration Setup
Plant Exp Unit (PEU) Photo Checkout
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Micro-G Plant Exp Unit (PEU) Attachment
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) 1G Plant Exp Unit (PEU) Attachment
Replacement of ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filters and Cleaning В1, B2 Fan Screens in MRM2 (ФГБ1ПГО_2_224_1, bag 432-7 (00069509R)).  Discard the removed items
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
CONTROL. Switching INDICATOR Measuring Mode. Photography
Capillary Structures Sorbent Viscous Flow Demonstration Ops
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Habitability Human Factors Post-Questionnaire PI Conference – Subject
Bone Densitometer Setup and Calibration
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Plant Exp Unit (PEU) Detachment
Plant Exp Unit (PEU) Experiment Laptop Terminal (ELT) 2 Closeout
Plant Exp Unit Checkout Item Closeout

Completed Task List Items

None 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

JEMAL Depress
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Ops
Rodent Research Habitat video
SSRMS LEE HD Survey

