
Payloads
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew opened the ELF facility, exchanged the sample holder assembly, and attempted to replace one of the fixation fasteners. Due to access issues and time constraints, the fastener replacement will be deferred. JAXA’s ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by container-less processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. ELF typically processes oxide samples, but is also capable of processing semiconductors, alloys, and metals.
Immersive Exercise: The crew set up and performed an Immersive Exercise session using the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation System (CEVIS), filled out the questionnaire, and then stowed the hardware. The Immersive Exercise project focuses on the development of a Virtual Reality (VR) environment for biking sessions aboard the ISS. The VR equipment is interfaced with the current bicycle exerciser aboard the ISS, CEVIS, located in the United States “Destiny” Laboratory Module.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4): The crew performed the steps necessary to initiate experiment runs, with a goal of working through runs 50-53. InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Plant Water Management 3 & 4 (PWM 3 & 4): The crew performed day-2 of the wedge test operations, followed by cylinder test operations with real-time feedback from the ground science team. PWM 3 & 4 investigation demonstrates passive measures for controlling fluid delivery and uptake in plant growth systems. Reduced gravity creates challenges in providing adequate fluid and nutrition for plant growth. This investigation examines using other physical properties such as surface tension, wetting and system geometry to replace the role of gravity.
Time Perception: The crew set up the appropriate hardware and participated in the Time Perception science sessions. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time perception in microgravity is also fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. The Time Perception in Microgravity experiment quantifies the subjective changes in time perception in humans during and after long-duration exposure to microgravity.
Systems
Node 1 20-Port Network Switch Deploy: The crew replaced a 16-port network switch with a 20-port network switch in Node 1. Once installed, the crew coordinated with ground teams to configure the 20-port network switch Ethernet cables to ensure good connection to the Joint Station LAN (JSL) network; however, the 20-port switch was unable to establish a connection due to configuration issues. The crew attempted resolve the connections by replacing the 20-port network switch with a spare, but the connections were not restored. Finally, the crew reconfigured Node 1 JSL connections to establish a good interim configuration while ground teams assess a forward plan. The JSL is the primary TCP/IP network on ISS. It provides high-speed two-way communication between interfaces internal and external of ISS utilizing a combination of Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) and Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) routers, switches, and Wireless Access Points (WAP).
Acoustic Monitor Noise Survey: The crew used an acoustic monitor to measure the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS by taking sound level readings. This week’s measurements are being taken in LAB and Node 3. This is a regularly scheduled activity to maintain acceptable noise levels which contributes to overall crew health.
Water Stowage System (WSS) Resupply Tank Changeout: The crew changed out the full water resupply tanks 1,2,3 in the US Lab WSS Rack with empty water resupply tanks. The WSS resupply tanks are COTS tanks. The outer shell of the tank is a fiberglass composite that is sealed with an epoxy resin (not wetted). The interior of the shell is lined with polyethylene and the internal bladder is the polyether urethane material. Unlike most of the bladder tanks commonly used in the space operations, the water is stored between the bladder and the shell (as opposed to inside the bladder). During transfer operations, the bladder is filled with compressed air which forces the water out of the tank.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MT Translation from WS7 to WS6
SSRMS Walk-Off from Node 2 to MBS3 (In Work)
SSRMS Elbow Pitch Joint Test (Planned)
Crew Dragon Weekly Quiescent Checkout
WSS Resupply Tank Checkout

