
Payloads
Exploration Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) – Toilet: The crew completed a fit-check of the Collapsible Contingency Urinal (CCU) with the Toilet. Additionally, the crew inspected Toilet air filters for loose particulates and damage. The Toilet System is an Exploration Technology Demonstration that has evolved into a permanent United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) system. The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS). The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for USOS for up to 90 crew days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC)/Toilet operations.
GRIP: The crew perform the second of three GRIP tasks. The GRIP experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements, and tapping gestures.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4): The crew distributed particles within the sample vial and initiated experiment runs. InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
ISS Amateur (HAM) Radio: The crew initiated a HAM radio pass with Seinan Gakuin Junior Senior High School, Fukuoka, Japan. ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
KERMIT (KEyence Research Microscope Testbed): The crew installed sample slides into the KERMIT Hardware as part of ground commanded Checkouts and Vibration tests. KERMIT is a commercial off-the-shelf microscope that provides researchers with fundamental microscope capabilities, including state-of-the-art imaging and analysis modules. KERMIT is designed to streamline imaging and analysis through a single platform with easy operation by the International Space Station crew and from the ground. KERMIT provides the ability to perform advanced microscopy during spaceflight and remotely from the ground.
SoundSee: The crew installed the SoundSee hardware onto Astrobee, and performed audio data collection for acoustic mapping and machine health monitoring experiments. Investigation of Deep Audio Analytics on the International Space Station (SoundSee Mission) tests monitoring of the acoustic environment using an audio sensor on Astrobee, a mobile robotic platform aboard the space station. Microphones collect acoustic information, and the Astrobee determines the sensor’s position. The system can detect anomalies in the sound of components inside a machine, providing autonomous monitoring of the health of infrastructure such as life support and exercise equipment.
Systems
Starliner On-Board Training (OBT): The crew completed several OBTs in preparation for the upcoming Boeing Starliner Orbital Flight Test 2 (OFT-2) mission. The OBTs provided the crew with an overview of the OFT-2 mission profile, crew procedures for rendezvous, interfaces for monitoring/commanding OFT-2, and ISS attitude control expectations. OFT-2 is scheduled to launch from Kennedy Space Center on Saturday, July 30th and dock to the ISS on Sunday, July 31st.
Eye Exams: The crew completed routine Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; In this case, the objects of interest are the crewmember’s eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board in order to monitor crewmembers eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Application Computer Unit (MACU) Hard Disk Drive (HDD) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew performed an R&R of the LAB MACU HDD using an on-orbit spare. The crew packaged the suspect HDD for return so that ground teams can investigate error messages observed during commissioning. The MACU is a component of the Robotics Workstation (RWS). The RWS provides the crew the capability to control and monitor MSS equipment in order to support robotic functions of ISS assembly and maintenance, payload and user servicing, and safe haven support.
Completed Task List Activities:

RFID Logistics Reader Troubleshooting
WHC KTO Replace

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

OPM to -XVV
SSRMS Walk-Off to LAB PDGF
SPDM Reconfigure and Stow
LAB CDRA Deactivation
Node 3 CDRA Activation

