
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) ESA: Today, Oleg Artemyev (EV1) and Samantha Cristoforetti (EV2) performed the RS EVA ESA. Hatch opening occurred at 9:50 AM CT. The duo performed several tasks to outfit the Nauka Multipurpose Laboratory Module (MLM) and to configure the European Robotic Arm (ERA) for operations on the station’s Russian Segment. The crew also deployed ten nanosatellites during the spacewalk. Today’s EVA duration was 7 hours and 4 minutes and completed the following tasks:

Deploy ten (10) nanosatellites from Strela-1 Operator Post on MRM2

Eight (8) YuZGU-55 nanosatellites: ##5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12
Two (2) Tsiolkovsky-Ryazan nanosatellites: ##1 and 2


Temp install ERA adapter on MRM2 [БТП-2] passive base point
Relocate platform with adapters from MRM2 [БТП-2] passive base point to MLM plane 1
Remove and replace CLU-2 protective window on ERA End Effector 2
Switch ERA EVA Control Panel (EMMI) to stowage mode
Close MLI at ERA [СКМ] [МФ] Launch Locks (LL) on MLM plane 3

Due to the lack of time, the following tasks were deferred from today’s EVA:

Install retainer on Strela-1 and Strela-2 booms
Extend Strela-2 boom from FGB [ГА] to MRM2
Install platform with adapters on MLM plane 3 (time permitting)

Payloads:
Forward Osmosis Membrane (FOM): The crew activated membrane 2. Water has some of the highest mass of any component needed for space travel, and effective recovery of potable water from wastewater is critical for life support and environmental health on long-term missions. Assessing the Performance of Urease-phospholipid Reactive Forward Osmosis Membranes for Water Reclamation Aboard the ISS (FOM) tests reactive membranes for water reclamation in microgravity as compared to 1g on Earth. These membranes show promise on the ground, but their performance must be evaluated in microgravity to advance the technology. 
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): Fiber Optic Production Preforms and Fiber Spool Module/Cartridges were changed out for the next operation. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN. Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest that ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth. Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
Genes in Space-9 (GIS-9): The first sample (S/N 04) was prepared, and the run was initiated. Cell-free technology is a platform for protein production that does not include living cells. GIS-9 evaluates two approaches for using this technology in microgravity: cell-free protein production and biosensors that can detect specific target molecules. The technology could provide a portable, low-resource, and low-cost tool with potential applications for medical diagnostics, on-demand production of medicine and vaccines, and environmental monitoring on future space missions.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham Pass was initiated with Kitaogura Elementary School, Uji, Japan. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
NanoRacks Module-48: Video and photo documentation was performed on NanoRacks Module-48 and its contents in the Cupola. NanoRacks Module-48 seeks to increase interest in the space environment. It is difficult to provide students with access to space. For this investigation, student photos and messages may be sent up as printed material or as files on a USB drive. Additionally, plant seeds may be flown. The students plant the seeds once they return to Earth and compare them to plants grown from regular seeds. Through this experiment, students can touch and feel close to space.
Rodent Research-22 (RR-22): The Rodent Habitat water boxes were checked for obvious signs of water leakage and to confirm functioning lights. Effects of Spaceflight on Tissue Regeneration (RR-22) investigates the effects of spaceflight on systemic and local responses of skin healing using mice as a model organism. Researchers use multiple genetic and biological assessments to define the underlying biological changes and identify those that affect tissue regeneration, which could provide therapeutic targets for improved treatments.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): Fluid from Root Modules was recirculated back into Fluids Reservoir and the wicks were examined and opened when required. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Water Container (ЕДВ-У) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew R&Red the existing ЕДВ-У in the WHC. The ЕДВ-У is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the Urine Transfer System (UTS).
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) NOD3A5 Rack Rotation for Inspection: In preparation for the upcoming Life Support Rack (LSR) Oxygen Generator System (OGS) rack swap, the crew rotated the NOD3A5 rack to inspect the starboard aft endcone of NOD3A6 for future ISS Comm Data Converter (ICDC) hardware installation. This activity is to ensure sufficient translation path for the LSR OGS rack swap.
Water Recovery System (WRS) Contingency Water Container (CWC) – Iodine Fill: The crew transferred water from the Potable Bus into a CWC-Iodine container using the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD). Iodine was added to purity the water. The crew monitored the offload time as a secondary control to protect the CWC-Iodine from over-pressurization. The CWC is a soft container with an inner bladder that can store a variety of liquids including humidity condensate, wastewater, and other unique fluids such as EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) wastewater.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

IAS Russian to USOS Communication Configuration
VDS EVA Configuration/Deconfiguration
ACS Automatic Handover to RS Enable/Inhibit
MCC-M Transition to External Ops Mode
VDS WVS WETA Scan
MCC-M Transition to Standard Mode
MSS SpaceX-25 External Cargo Operations
Open Thruster Manifold Isolation Valves for EVA
ORACLE RAC Patching

