
Payloads:
ADvanced Space Experiment Processor (ADSEP): Historical documentation photos were taken of a crewmember removing the Tissue Cassette from the ADSEP Facility and then of the crewmember holding the Tissue Cassettes inside the Glovebag. ADSEP is a thermally controlled single-middeck-locker equivalent that accommodates up to three cassette-based experiments that can be independently operated. Its companion hardware consists of a collection of several experiment cassettes, each doubly or triply contained, that accommodate experiments in cell technology, model organisms, multiphase fluids, solution chemistry, separation science, microencapsulation, and crystal growth.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The Tissue Cassettes were removed from ADSEP, and media and waste bags were replaced in the BFF. The Tissue Cassettes were then reinserted back into the ADSEP. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe; however, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed their BFF experiment to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The lower Fluid & Combustion Facility (FCF) Input/Output (I/O) processor hard disk drive and the FCF I/O Processor Power Cable connection were inspected to troubleshoot the FCF I/O Processor issue. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel, and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Immunity Assay: Immunity Assay hardware was gathered in preparation for future operations. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample with the help of a functional immune test.
Kubik: Kubik-5 and Kubik-6 facilities were setup in preparation for Immunity Assay operations. Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator or cooler with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic microgravity investigations such as those using seeds, cells, and small animals.
NanoRacks External Platform (NREP) Inserts: The NREP was temporarily installed onto the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table in order to clear stowage from the NanoRacks Airlock. After NG-19 arrival, the NREP will be removed from the slide table and reinstalled back into JEMAL along with the Nanoracks LEONIDAS sensor package. The NREP is a platform that provides communication, power, and operations to hosted payloads mounted on the outside of the ISS.
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL): The CO2 meter was removed and stowed from SABL-2. The SABL unit supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical, and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. The SABL unit also has switchable 28VDC and 5VDC power supplies for investigation use.
Telescience Resource Kit (TREK): The TREK laptop was relocated to the JAXA Experiment Module (JEM) forward window in preparation the upcoming ISS Research and Development conference. Operating space hardware still requires a complicated set of computer software, which operations teams on the ground maintain. The Flight Demonstration of TREK is a software package that simplifies the software running on the ISS, benefiting users on Earth. Eventually, TREK software will allow scientists, engineers and students who conduct experiments in space to connect to their experiments through regular Internet connection protocols using the new and improved onboard Ethernet communications recently added to ISS.
Systems:
Lab Firewall #1 and Astrobee Docking Station Ethernet Cable Fix: The Ethernet cables connected to Lab Firewall #1 and the Astrobee Docking Station had previously been identified as having broken connecter tips. The crew repaired the connector tips by attaching RJ-45 connector clips to the ends of the cables.  Intact Ethernet cable connector tips are necessary to avoid loose cables disconnecting and ensure stable Joint Station LAN (JSL) access. 
Onboard Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT): The crew completed OBT for  Cygnus NG-19 arrival, which is currently planned for August 4th. This OBT helps prepare the crew with operating the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) for Cygnus capture operations. Cygnus is captured by astronauts operating the SSRMS for berthing to the ISS. . 
PROX1 and PROX2 Photo Take: In preparation for the upcoming Cygnus NG-19 arrival, PROX1 and PROX2 were retrieved and stowed in JEM. Visual inspection was performed and photos were sent to ground for review.  The PROX system communications gear is responsible for receiving and transmitting communications for both the HTV-X and Cygnus vehicles.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

BFF Tissue Cassette Removal Support
Lab TCCS Activation
MT Translation
SSRMS Cygnus Pre-Launch Checkout

