
SpaceX (SpX)-18 Launch Status: Following yesterday’s launch postponement due to unfavorable weather conditions, SpX-18 launched successfully today at 5:01 PM CT from Cape Canaveral Launch Complex 40. Dragon capture and berthing are scheduled to occur on Saturday, July 27.  SpX-18 Dragon will deliver ~1680 kg of pressurized cargo and ~530 kg of unpressurized cargo to the ISS.
Photobioreactor: The crew retrieved two sample syringes and placed them into cold stowage for return on SpX-18. Remaining PBR hardware was removed from the cold stowage and trashed. Today the life support systems that sustain astronauts in space are based on physicochemical processes. The Photobioreactor investigation aims at demonstrating that microalgae (i.e. biological processes) can be used together with existing systems to improve recycling of resources, creating a hybrid life support system. This hybrid approach could be helpful in future long-duration exploration missions, as it could reduce the amount of consumables required from Earth, and will first be tested in space on the ISS. 
NutrISS: The crew performed the first Bioelectrical impedance Analysis measurement. Long duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station (NutrISS) investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the International Space Station (ISS) is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. On the basis of this data, it is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein, intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss of crew members.
PK-4 (Plasma Krystall-4): The crew initiated the 2nd run of the PK-4 experiment and changed the hard drive. Plasma Krystall-4 (PK-4) is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of “Complex Plasmas”: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics, and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas.
VECTION: The crew completed VECTION Experiment sessions. The objective of the study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, and how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated. 
Velocicalc Airflow Measurement Survey: In support of monitoring the ISS InterModule Ventilation (IMV) health, the crew used the Velocicalc device and measurement aids to measure the air flow exiting and entering outlets throughout the USOS modules. In addition to flow rate measurement, inspections were performed in select locations.
Completed Task List Activities:

Equipment Hook RET S/N Label

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Velocicalc airflow measurement survey
Payloads ops support

Look Ahead:
Friday, 7/26 (GMT 207)
Payloads:


Biorock On-board Training (ESA)
RR-17 Transfer conference (NASA)
NanoRacks Module 9 On-board Training (NASA)
PK-4 Run 3 and HD exchange (Joint)
ELF Gas Bottle Unit valve close (JAXA)

Systems:

TBD pending SpX-18 

Saturday – Sunday, 7/27 – 7/28
Payloads:


TBD pending SpX-18

Systems:

TBD pending SpX-18

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


РК-4. Hard drive exchange
Recycle Tank Drain
USOS Window Shutter Close
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and Image Processing Unit (IPU) Video Cable Connection Part 2
Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
Progress 441 (DC1) Stowage and IMS Ops
Biolab items retrieval from JSB S/N 5141
Recycle Tank Remove and Replace
РК-4. Run 2
Handover of Increment 60 Crew
Verify cover closure on SM windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14
Study Of Cardiac Bioelectric Activity At Rest
Vection Crew Member Training
ISS Experience Solid State Drive Change out
Relocate LAB Cobalt Bricks
Photobioreactor Melfi Retrieve
Setup and Activation of Crew Onboard Support Kit Equipment for coverage via RGS
Photobioreactor Melfi Insert
TV (ISS-MCC) TV coverage via RGS
Photobioreactor Melfi Retrial Final
JAXA EPO Item Gather
Vacuum Cleaning of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in DC1
РК-4. Run 2
IMV Flow Measurement Survey
On MCC GO Filling up Progress 441 (DC1) СрПК Section 2 with N2
TV (ISS-MCC) TV coverage via RGS
ISS Experience Solid State Drive Change out
TV System Closeout after RS TV coverage via RGS
Preventive Maintenance of pressure sealing mechanisms of DC1 [АСП] hatch cover and Progress 441 [ACA] hatch cover
PK-4. Chamber Gas Exchange
Eye Stain Medical Tech Demo
Crew Command Panel (CCP) Cable Route and Checkout

 
 