
Rodent Research-17 (RR-17):  The crew installed Rodent Habitats in the Lab rack in preparation for upcoming RR-17 operations following SpX-18 arrival.  RR-17 uses younger and older mice as model organisms to evaluate the physiological, cellular and molecular effects of the spaceflight environment. Some responses to spaceflight in humans and model organisms such as mice resemble accelerated aging. This investigation provides a better understanding of aging-related immune, bone, and muscle disease processes, which may lead to new therapies for use in space and on Earth. 
ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization: All six crew members reviewed locations of equipment and positions of valves in the USOS and RS used in emergencies. Throughout the training, the crew consulted with specialists at Mission Control Center (MCC)-Houston, MCC-Moscow, Columbus CC and Space Station Integration and Promotion Center (SSIPC).
SpX-18 Arrival Preparations: In preparation for SpX-18 arrival tomorrow, the crew completed three Capture Point Hold runs that allows practice in free drift timing, malfunction response and nominal rate approaches. They also had a conference with ground teams to discuss cargo transfer operations.
Treadmill 2 (T2): This morning the crew was informed of an “over temp caution” on T2. The crew found no signs of smoke or and no smoke detector alarms were annunciated. T2 is currently No-Go and crew will use Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabalization (CEVIS) as the standard alternate exercise method.
Completed Task List Activities:

DZUS fastener repair
RET label

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


RoBOT OBT support
Payloads ops support

Look Ahead:
Saturday, 7/27 (GMT 208)
Payloads:


NanoRacks Module-9 OBT
Biorock OBT

Systems:

Dragon capture/berthing

Sunday, 7/28 (GMT 209)
Payloads:


Rodent Research transfer
Biorock
Biofabrication

Systems:

Dragon LiOH filter bag removal 

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Gas Bottle Unit (GBU) valve closing
OBT ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization
PK-4 data hard drives exchange
Payload Matching Unit (БСПН) log-file downlink from RSS1
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference
Packing Equipment for disposal in Progress 441 (DC1) and IMS Ops
PK-4 Experiment Run 3
Setup and Activation of Crew Onboard Support Kit (КСПЭ) Equipment for coverage via RGS
Rendezvous and Prox Ops Program (RPOP) Setup
ISS-MCC-M TV TV coverage via RGS
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 2
TV System Closeout after after RS TV coverage via RGS
PK-4 Experiment Run 3
LMM MELFI Sample Retrieve
Rodent Research Habitat Install
Packing Equipment for disposal in Progress 441 (DC1) and IMS Ops
Progress 441(DC1) Stowage Completion Report
Evening Preparation Work
PK-4 Experiment Run 3
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) Biomolecule Sequencer Stow
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
Dragon Cargo Operations Review
MERLIN 4 Icebrick Insert
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill Part 3

 
 