07-27-2010July 27, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/27/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Today’s sleep/wake cycle:  Wake last night – 2:40pm EDT; sleep – 11:00am today (until 2:00am tomorrow morning).   The Russian Orlan EVA-25 spacewalk by FE-3 Mikhail Kornienko & FE-5 Fyodor Yurchikhin began at 12:11am EDT (26 min behind schedule) and lasted 6h 42min, concluding successfully at 6:53am.  Attitude control authority was handed over to Russian MCS (Motion Control System) thrusters at 9:25pm and returned to U.S. momentum management at ~12:05am.  All scheduled objectives were completed.    The two spacewalkers –  Replaced the ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) Klest-154 video camera,Routed and mated external KURS-P AFU (Antenna Feeder Device) MRM1-to-FGB cables to the FGB,Routed and mated SUBA (Onboard Equipment Control System) Ethernet cables to the SM (Service Module),Jettisoned the old camera, andBrought the MRM1 cable reels back inside the ISS (instead of jettisoning them as originally planned). [The new SM ATV video camera that was installed was checked out successfully.  The KURS cables have not yet been tested but Moscow plans to do that later this week.  During the EVA, several objects were detected floating away from the ISS.  One was tentatively identified as a cable clamp. The videos are being reviewed by the Russians to determine the identity of the other objects.]  After conclusion of EVA-25 at ~6:53am, Mikhail & Fyodor –  Repressurized the SM PkhO transfer compartment,Conducted their second MO-9 “Urolux” biochemical urine test,Reset STTS communications in the SM/PkhO,Re-installed the air duct through the PkhO hatch,Restored systems configurations in the SM to pre-EVA conditions, andSet up the Orlan-MK suits, umbilicals and BSS interface units for drying out.    CDR Skvortsov, who remained isolated in the MRM2 during EVA-25 with Tracy Caldwell-Dyson, -  Opened the MRM2-to-SM(SU) hatches,Installed the air ducts in SM, MRM2 and DC1,Supported the ground-commanded reactivation of the Russian Elektron O2 generator by monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating  [the gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup], andCompleted post-EVA MRM2 reconfiguration to nominal and Soyuz TMA-18/22S deactivation.   FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson, after the EVA, -  Relocated the SSC18 (Station Support Computer 18) laptop from MRM2 to its nominal plug-in location in the Cupola & returned batteries to deployed SSCs, andReturned stowage equipment, CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) and other required hardware from the MRM2 to their nominal locations for reconfiguration.  No CEO photo targets uplinked for today.  