07-26-2010July 26, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/26/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Underway: Week 8 of Increment 24.  Shifted crew day/night cycle:  Due to tonight’s EVA-25 spacewalk, wake-up time of the station residents has been shifted by 12h40m to 2:40pm EDT.  Wake-up tomorrow: 11:00am.  Upon wake-up, CDR Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also at wake-up, FE-4 Wheelock & FE-6 Walker completed another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Doug & Shannon started another week-long session of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 2nd for both, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  As part of the crew’s regular morning inspection tour, the CDR conducted the routine checkup of circuit breakers & fuses in the DC1 Docking Compartment.     [The monthly checkup in the “Pirs” module looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 & BPP-36.]  As regular pre-spacewalk activity, Mikhail & Fyodor took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.  Afterwards, Yurchikhin closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware.     [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]  Also for tonight’s EVA, Alex Skvortsov in the course of the day –  Set up the MPEG-2 video transmission system on Ku-band,Monitored the TV signal on the SSC1 (Space Station Computer 1) laptop during the subsequent MPEG-2 transmission test (Ku-band) with the ground,Prepared the MRM2 Poisk & Soyuz TMA-18/22S for the spacewalk,Supported ground-commanded close-down of the Elektron oxygen generator by performing the regular N2 purge,Removed the ventilation air ducts from DC1 (skip B3 fan removal) and from MRM2,Conducted other routine pre-EVA ISS onboard systems configuration, e.g., closing SM window shutters for protection,Completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM [regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers], andStarted with Tracy Caldwell-Dyson the isolation period in the MRM2 during EVA-25.  On her part, Tracy joined Alexander in the MRM2, where she –  Had gathered CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) and required equipment for audit and reconfiguration,Collected fully-charged batteries from deployed SSCs, powered down SSC18, and relocated batteries and SSC to MRM2 for use during MRM2 isolation,Configured her Pro K diet selection by organizing food items per crew preference for another Pro K session series,Reorganized the “battery pantry” CTB for easier crew use and audit, and Reviewed the procedures and material of the ECWS OBT (EMU Caution & Warning Simulator Onboard Trainer).  Kornienko & Yurchikhin made final preparations for their EVA tonight by –  Checking the EVA cameras by “test firing” them and transferred them to the DC1Checking out the Orlan-M spacesuits and their systems, as well as the suit interface control panels (BSS) in DC1 & PkhO,Retesting the BK-3 primary & backup oxygen (O2) tanks of the Orlans and DC1, Disassembling the DC1 air duct, but leaving the V3 fan in place, Setting up the STTS communications/telemetry links necessary for the spacewalk from the DC1, including switching over the caution & warning system from the regular PSS console to the EVA support panel (POV).   [Most activities are paced by RGS (Russian ground site) comm window passes] andTesting the bio-medical parameter telemetry to RGS, including VHF/voice & biomedical electrode belt and *telemetry hookups via the BSS (later by the wireless in-suit Tranzit-B radio telemetry system) for vital signs and equipment monitoring.   FE-4 Wheelock set up the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware, including MBS (Mixing Bag System), powered it up and then spent several hours performing his second session with the VO2max assessment, integrated with Thermolab.  Later, he downloaded the data, including Thermolab, to a PCS (Portable Computer System) laptop, powered down, cleaned up and temporarily moved all hardware aside for subsequent crew operation.      [The experiment VO2max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% & 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]  Doug also conducted the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) in Node-3, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.      [After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]  Working in the JAXA Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) on the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility), Shannon Walker today removed the CBEF IU 1G Centrifuge from the experiment.  Walker also went through the regular monthly session (his second) of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on Eye Treatment.   [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]   FE-6 conducted the periodic maintenance & visual inspection of the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), checking out the rails & rollers, greasing the Y- and Z-axis rails & rollers and evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration.  Afterwards, Shannon supplemented the WPA WWT (Water Processor Assembly / Waste Water Tank) with stored water from an EDV container, emptying it (~40 minutes).  Walker also serviced the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) by removing & replacing the Russian-furnished E-K Pre-Treat Tank, a periodic 1.5-hr task.   [PPE (Personnel Protective Equipment) must be worn during this maintenance.  E-K contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H2SO4 (sulfuric acid), CrO3 (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple color), and H2O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed with water in a dispenser (DKiV) and used for toilet flushing.]  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer.    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]   EVA-25, by Fyodor Yurchikhin & FE3 Kornienko, will begin tonight at ~11:45pm EDT.    EVA-25 Overview:  EV1 – Fyodor Yurchikhin, Orlan-MK#4EV2 – Mikhail Kornienko, Orlan-MK#6Wakeup:  7/26 – 2:40pm EDT (sleep shifted 12h40m)DC1 Hatch Open:  7/26 - 11:45pm EDTRepress:  7/27 – 5:45am EDTSleep:  7/27 - 11:00am EDTEVA Objectives (6 hrs.)  SM ATV docking camera R&RMRM1 C&DH, Kurs-P external cable routingJettison old SM ATV docking camera and empty cable reels  DC1 Prime A/L (SM PkhO Backup A/L)IV Crew:  22S crew (Skvortsov & Caldwell Dyson) isolated in MRM2 (Soyuz 22S on MRM2).23S crew in USOS (Soyuz 23S on MRM1).  No CEO photo targets uplinked for today.  