
Micro-11: Today the crew performed the final two sessions for the Micro-11 investigation. They checked out, configured and calibrated the Micro-11 microscope, thawed samples removed from a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER), fixed those samples and loaded them into the microscope for imaging. Afterwards, they inserted the samples into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). There are thirteen runs for the Micro-11 investigation.  Micro-11 examines whether spaceflight alters human sperm, by tracking the swimming patterns of human and bull sperm during spaceflight. This investigation also assesses other aspects of sperm functionality related to male fertility. As a result, Micro-11 provides fundamental data indicating whether successful human reproduction beyond Earth is possible, and whether countermeasures are needed to protect sperm function in space.   
AngieX Cancer Therapy: The crew performed microscope and operations sessions for the AngieX Cancer Therapy investigation today. The AngieX Cancer Therapy investigation examines whether endothelial cells cultured in microgravity represent a valid in vitromodel to test effects of vascular-targeted agents on normal blood vessels. AngieX has developed a treatment that targets both tumor cells and vasculature, but needs a better model on which to test it. This study may facilitate development of a cost-effective method that does not require animal testing and which may help develop safer and more effective vascular-targeted drugs. 
Aerosol Samplers: Today the crew deployed Active Aerosol Samplers (AASs) in Nodes 2 and 3. The battery-powered AASs actively pull in air and collect particles using the principal of thermophoresis. This is accomplished by flowing the sampled air through a large thermal gradient in a narrow channel. During this process, particles are driven to the cold side of the channel, where an electron microscope (EM) grid is held in place by a tiny magnet. When returned to Earth, these grids are easily removed and placed directly in an EM for analysis. 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 4:  Today a crewmember retrieved Biophysics 4 Plate 2 from the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) at the end of its science run. They inspected it and then placed it inside a Microgravity Experiment Research Locker / INcubator (MERLIN). Proteins are important biological molecules that can be crystallized to provide better views of their structure, which helps scientists understand how they work. Proteins crystallized in microgravity are often higher in quality than those grown on Earth. LMM Biophysics 4 examines the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity. 
MagVector 3D:  The crew exchanged a MagVector 3D sample today.  Twelve different samples will be processed on the ISS (1 per day).  ESA’s MagVector investigation supports a study of how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research is expected to help improve future ISS experiments and electrical experiments, and could offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general
Made in Space Fiber Optics (MSFO):  The crew disconnected and removed the MSFO and stowed it for return.
Plant Habitat-1:  Today the crew cleaned the Plant Habitat facility. The final harvest of the plants was performed on Monday. 
Dragon Cargo Ops: Today the crew started work on the fourth SpaceX-15 Cargo Message as they continue to pack and load items slated for return on SpX-15. Specialists estimate the crew will require 10 hours to finish loading the vehicle prior to the planned departure date of 3 August.  
Eye Exams: This morning the crew completed routine eye exams using Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT). OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; In this case, the objects of interest are the crewmember’s eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank [E-K] Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew R&R’d the E-K tank as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) N21A4A-C Remote Power Controller (RPC) 7 Trip: On June 30, the RPC feeding the Node 2 Port Aft Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Valve tripped with indications of a true overcurrent.  Today, this RPCM was loaded with the firmware version 07P1 update that enables additional data collection at 1 kHz frequency. RPC 7 was closed, and remained closed for 77 minutes before tripping open again. Review of the trip signature indicates the trip today is due to Overcurrent. Per agreement at the July17 Ops tagup, RPC 7 will remain open (closed command inhibited) and the crew will manually close the IMV valve if required in an emergency. Ground teams will investigate the latest signature and the path forward.
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
Cleaning Z93 Particulate from the A/L Bacteria Filters.
JAXA ISPR Racks and ICS Rack MTL Reconfiguration
AQM Sieve Cartridge Remove and Replace
Max CEVIS Consumables Audit
TV Conference for the Laboratorium show on Karusel TV channel – COL
Aerosol Samplers Battery Charge
JEM Airlock Press
Telescience Resource Kit Laptop Shutdown
Replacing Fire Detection and Suppression Set
COL1D4 CTB Relocate
ACE Sample Locate
Replacement of Н1 pump on 4СПН panel in КОБ2 heating loop.
Rodent Research Access Unit Clean
JEM Airlock Leak Check
Magvector 3D Sensor Array Sample Exchange
ESA Nutritional Assessment
Rodent Research Sample Relocation
ИПК-1М Personal Protective Equipment (15 items) remove and replace on RS
AngieX Cancer Therapy Microscope Operations
OCT Exam
AngieX Cancer Therapy Ops Session
EPO crew message recording
Cargo Transfer to Dragon
Vacuum Cleaning ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in DC1
MELFI Sample Return Bag Insertion
СКПФ1,СКПФ2 dust filters in MRM1
Aerosol Active Samplers Hardware Deployment 2
Magvector shutdown sequence
Replacement of Pretreat and Water Dispenser (ДкиВ) and the hose
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Plant Habitat Facility Clean
Micro-11 Microscope Checkout
Micro-11 Microscope Operations
Micro-11 Glacier Sample Removal 1
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
СОЖ maintenance
Micro-11 MELFI Sample Return Bag Insertion
RADIOSKAF. Disconnecting Tanusha-SWSU No.3 nanosatellite from the charger.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace
SPHERES Satellite Preparation
IDENTIFICATION. Copy ИМУ-Ц micro-accelerometer data to laptop
Made In Space Fiber Optics Removal & Stow
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Open
LMM Biophysics Plate Removal
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
PK-4 data hard drives exchange
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Close
PK-4 Data Hard Drives Packing
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Stow

Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


JEMAL Pressurization
RPCM N21A4A_C Firmware Update

