
76 Progress (76P) Launch and Docking: 76P launched today from the Baikonur Cosmodrome at 9:26 AM CT carrying food, fuel and supplies. Following a 2-orbit rendezvous, the vehicle successfully docked to the ISS Docking Compartment 1 (DC-1) Nadir Port at 12:45 PM CT. The crew then performed leak checks, opened hatches, and began cargo unloading. 
Payloads
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L): The crew performed a CBEF-L re-configuration change from MHU-5 mouse mission back to the nominal configuration. Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Fluids Integrated Rack/Light Microscopy Module (FIR/LMM)/CDM changeout: As a continuation of the CDM experiment, the crew installed the ninth of the ten experiment modules on the FIR/LMM. Capillary-Driven Microfluidics in Space (Capillary Driven Microfluidics) examines the drawing of fluids into a tiny narrow tube in microgravity. Results may improve current mathematical models and understanding of microfluidic systems and improve fluid control in various devices. Diagnostic devices require separation of blood cells and plasma, which have different densities, and the absence of sedimentation and buoyancy-driven convection in microgravity improves the efficiency of this separation.
Space Acceleration Measurement System-II (SAMS-II): The crew replaced the Electronics Enclosure (EE) inside SAMS RTS Drawer 2 (RTS/D2) with a stowed spare. Space Acceleration Measurement System-II (SAMS-II) is an ongoing study of the small forces (vibrations and accelerations) on the International Space Station (ISS) resulting from the operation of hardware, crew activities, dockings and maneuvering. Results generalize the types of vibrations affecting vibration-sensitive experiments and structural life of ISS. Investigators and structural analysts seek to better understand the vibration environment on the ISS using SAMS-II data and assessing station loads and dynamics.
Systems
Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) Test Module Checkout: The crew performed a check out of the SAFER and Test Module seals. During the activity the crew measured the regulator pressure under flow and no-flow conditions, performed a leak check, and measured the relief valve crack and reseated pressure to satisfy the two year on-orbit maintenance requirements.
Amine Swingbed Removal: Today the crew removed the Amine Swingbed from EXPRESS Rack 8 (LAB1P4). Select hardware was salvaged as spares and the remaining components and hardware were transferred to HTV9 for disposal.
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Microbial Check Valve Remove and Replace (R&R):  As part of preventative maintenance the crew replaced the WPA Microbial Check Valve (MCV) located in Node 3.  Replacement of the MCV is required every 4 years. In order to access the WPA, the crew had to remove the newly installed Urine Transfer System (UTS) from the front of the rack. The ground requested feedback from the crew to determine the easiest method for removing the UTS in the future.
Completed Task List Activities:

Node 3 Port Endcone Reorganization
EVA Tool Stow (on-going)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


USTO OPM to -XVV prior to 76P Docking
Ground Support for 76P Docking
RS Thruster Maneuver to TEA after 76P docking
Node 3 CDRA Half Cycles (4 total)

