
Payloads:
Astrobee: The Astrobee flyers were prepped and JEM stowage was cleared in preparation for remote video operations. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. These robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, and logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): Test print cassette S/N 23435 was installed into BFF for a printing session. Upon completion of the print, the cleaning syringe was swapped into the BFF for post print cleaning. The Bioreactor was used to fill a media bag which was integrated into the sample cassette and inserted into the ADvanced Space Experiment Processor (ADSEP). The BFF print today was successful and the first meniscus cultured in space. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe; however, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed their BFF experiment to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Genes in Space-10: Genes in Space-10 Run 2 was performed in order to demonstrate the use of the mini-Polymerase Chain Reaction (miniPCR) and the Fluorescence Viewer to detect DNA lengths. Genes in Space-10 validates a method for measuring and analyzing Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) length aboard the ISS using fluorescent samples that may be analyzed by sight. The length of DNA fragments is important data for many applications and research fields, including medical diagnostics and understanding biological mechanisms such as the connection between telomere length and aging. No onboard assay currently exists to measure DNA length, and this investigation may fill that gap.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with Camp William B. Snyder, Haymarket, VA, USA. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crewmembers 10 to 20 questions.
Story Time From Space-9: A crewmember performed Story Time From Space-9 Eclipse Demonstrations. Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded onboard the ISS. Crewmembers read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crewmembers videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Systems:
Cygnus Onboard Training (OBT): In preparation for NG-19 arrival early next month, the crew performed a conference to discuss Cygnus berthing plans with ground specialists, followed by a review of Cygnus Robotics and Rendezvous operations. The mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures, and interfaces for monitoring and commanding were reviewed.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Kit Audit: The crew performed an audit of the contents of the EMU Servicing Kit for ground tracking and future logistics. Results of the audit will help ground to determine what replenishment is necessary for future EVAs.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): As part of routine maintenance, the crew R&Red the WHC UR and IF. After the R&R, the crew cleaned the power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance activities.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

CDH PMCU MDM Swap
TCS Reconfiguration
ETCS S1 TRRJ Position
VDS Survey

