
Direct Current Switching Unit (DCSU) 3A Power on Reset (POR): Early Saturday, morning DCSU 3A experienced a POR which, due to power balancing during the current high beta period, resulted in a loss of power to some downstream loads. The crew and ground teams worked together to recover from the failure and teams continue to assess the impact to science and ISS hardware. At this time, all payloads are back in a stable configuration and normal operations continue. The cause of the POR is still under investigation. 
Dragon Cargo Ops: This weekend the crew completed approximately nine hours of cargo operations as they continued to pack and load items slated for return on the SpaceX-15 Dragon vehicle. Specialists estimate eighteen hours of activities remain to finish loading the vehicle prior to the planned departure date of 3 August.   
Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) #1: Today the crew extended the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Slide Table into the JEM in support of the ongoing series of experiments being performed on the ExHAM#1. They detached and stowed samples from the Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP) for return on the SpaceX-15 vehicle. They then placed new samples on the HXP for transfer via the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) to the JEM Exposed Facility handrail. 
Plant Habitat-1: The crew harvested Arabidopsis plants today for the Plant Habitat-1 investigation. They placed the initial set of plants, that were too immature to harvest during the planned initial harvest, and stems and rosettes from the other plants, in foil packets for insertion into cold stowage bags. The Plant Habitat-1 investigation compares differences in genetics, metabolism, photosynthesis, and gravity sensing between plants grown in space and on Earth.   
AngieX Cancer Therapy: The crew performed the final microscope and operations sessions for the AngieX Cancer Therapy investigation today. They removed the Life Science hardware from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) to prepare for rodent operations tomorrow. The AngieX Cancer Therapy investigation examines whether endothelial cells cultured in microgravity represent a valid in vitro model to test effects of vascular-targeted agents on normal blood vessels. AngieX has developed a treatment that targets both tumor cells and vasculature, but needs a better model on which to test it. This study may facilitate development of a cost-effective method that does not require animal testing and which may help develop safer and more effective vascular-targeted drugs. 
Rodent Research-7 (RR-7): The crew completed preparations for rodent operations planned for the next two days in support of the RR-7 investigation. RR-7 examines how the space environment affects the community of microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract of mice (also known as the microbiota). It also looks at microgravity’s effects on multiple physiological systems known to be affected by the microbiota, including the gastrointestinal, immune, metabolic, circadian, and sleep systems. These studies should help explain mechanisms underlying interactions between these systems and the role of the microbiota in these interactions
Space Algae: The crew agitated and installed an additional six Space Algae culture bags in the Veggie facility today. The Space Algae investigation explores the genetic basis for productivity of algae cultivated in space and whether this requires genetic adaptations or not. Algae may perceive microgravity as an abiotic stress, which can trigger production of high value compounds. Investigators plan whole genome sequencing of the space-grown algal populations to identify genes related to growth in spaceflight and testing of algal composition for production of high value compounds. 
Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students (EarthKAM): The crew set up the EarthKAM equipment in Node 1 for an imaging session. EarthKam allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the International Space Station. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world. 
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.


MELFI Trypsin Kit Retrieve
JEM Airlock Press
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
PK-4 Experiment Interface Installation
XF305 Camcorder Setup
RADIOSKAF. Satellite “Tanyusha ЮЗГУ №3 Installation for Re-charging before EVA
JEM Airlock Leak Check
Auxiliary Laptop Computer System Virus Definition File Update
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
AngieX Cancer Therapy Microscope Operations
Preventive Maintenance of FS1 Laptop
Handhold Exp Platform #1 (HXP1) Sample Detachment 3
Monthly BRI CLEANING
AngieX Cancer Therapy Ops Session
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
СОЖ maintenance
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – COL
Handhold Exp Platform #1 (HXP1) Sample Stow
Medical kits inventory
Preparation for Replacement of 800А units of storage batteries №2 (А102) and №4 (А104)
Handhold Exp Platform #1 (HXP1) Sample Attachment 4
MELFI BioCell Containment Bag Insertion
MELFI Fixative Return Bag Insertion
AngieX MSG Hardware Partial Teardown
Station Support Computer (SSC) Relocate
Plant Habitat-01 Door Removal
EarthKAM Node 1 Setup and Activation
Trouble shooting of [ПОВ-2] control panel in DC1
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Retraction from JPM Side
KONSTANTA-2. Cassette No 3-4 removal from ТБУ-В №05 and setup for 1-hour warmup
JEM Airlock Depressurization
Plant Habitat-01 Plant Harvest
VEG-03E MWA Preparation
Glaicer Ice Brick/Cold Block Retrieval
Space Algae Experiment Install
Handhold Exp Platform #1 (HXP1) Item Closeout
KONSTANTA-2 Photography
Measurement of [КУ СКВ2]
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Checking БД-2 treadmill carriage position
Rodent Research Crew Conference
Glacier Ice Brick/Cold Block Retrieval
JEM Airlock Vent
SM air sampling for CO using [ИПД] samplers
[ИПД] air sampling for ammonia in SM
Collecting SM and FGB Air Samples Using АК-1М Sampler
Plant Habitat-01 Harvest 2 Glacier & MELFI Insertion
 [АК-1М] Air sampling in SM and FGB for Freon
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Telescience Resource Kit Laptop Setup

Completed Task List Activities:

WHO-KTO-REPLACE [Completed GMT 203]

Ground Activities:
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.


JEMAL support for HXP sample swap
AngieX support
Plant Habitat support 

