
Fluid Shifts:  A crew member completed the first of two days of Chibis operations in the Russian Segment for the Fluid Shifts investigation. They donned the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP/Chibis) device while the operator, with ground support in Moscow, assisted in taking measurements for Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) and performed a Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) test, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), and a Tonometry examination. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and to prevention of eye damage.
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis: The crew cleaned and restocked the Animal Habitats in support of the RR-5 investigation.  Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight.
Lighting Effects: The crew set up and configured the light meter hardware and took readings in the Cupola and the Columbus. The Lighting Effects investigation hopes to better quantify and qualify how lighting can effect habitability of spacecraft. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have implications for people on Earth who use electric lights. 
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Training: FE-2 completed this training which is an onboard refresher for long duration missions. Medical procedures and hardware were reviewed to ensure continuing basic knowledge of the Health Maintenance System.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Fluid Shifts Experiment
On MCC GO Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Cartridge (start)
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Install
Virus Definition File Update on Auxiliary Computer System (ВКС) Laptops
RADIOSKAF. Disconnecting of ТПУ 120 nanosatellite from charger and connecting Tanysha-SWSU-1 and Tanysha-SWSU-2
Service Module Data Collection – Operator
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Vacuum Cleaning of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in DC1
METEOR Hardware Check
JEM Wireless Instrumentation System Environmental Monitor Remote Sensor Unit Battery R&R
Microbial Tracking-2 Saliva Setup
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Lighting Effects Light Meter Readings Alternate 1
Rodent Research Habitat 3 & 4 Restock
Rodent Research Access Unit Clean
SPLANH. Preparation for experiment
RADIOSKAF. Monitoring Tanysha-SWSU-1 and Tanysha-SWSU-2 nanosatellites charge level status.  Photo/Video Ops
Antibody Conjugates MELFI Sample Retrieve 

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Fluid Shifts support
Rodent Research Support
SSRMS walkoff to MBS3/SPDM unstow

