07-28-2010July 28, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/28/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sleep/wake cycle today returned to “regular mode”: Wake – 2:00am; sleep – 5:30pm EDT  Upon wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also at wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson completed another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Caldwell-Dyson, Wheelock & Walker continued the current week-long session of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 2nd for Doug & Shannon, 6th for Tracy, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Also at day’s begin, FE-6 inserted a fresh DLT (Digital Line Tape) cartridge in the FSL VMU (Fluids Science Laboratory / Video management Unit) tape recorder.  FE-5 Yurchikhin downloaded EVA-25 digital photography to a RS (Russian Segment) laptop for subsequent downlink to TsUP-Moscow via OCA.  Afterwards, Fyodor & Mikhail Kornienko spent most of their workday on close-out activities after their 7/26-27 spacewalk, by –  Holding an EVA debrief/close-out conference with ground personnel at ~4:45am EDT,Removing the BK-3 portable oxygen repressurization tanks (primary & backup) from the DC1 BSS (Orlan Interface Unit),Removing the BNP portable repress tank from the SM Work Compartment (RO) and relocating it to Soyuz TMA-19/23,Removing the Orlan BRTA radio/telemetry unit batteries, Taking post-EVA radiation readings of the “Pille-MKS” dosimeters carried by the spacewalkers in their Orlan suits,Putting the EVA medical kits back in storage, Setting up the first 825M3 Orlan battery pack for complete discharge/recharge,Removing the US EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) lights, video camera, REBA battery & electric power cable from Orlan-MK for return to FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson,Refilling the Orlan feedwater bladders as required,Configuring the Orlan-MK suits, umbilicals and BSS interface units for drying out & subsequent storage, andTaking their post-EVA PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Fyodor at ~10:45am, Mikhail at ~11:00pm.    Meanwhile, Tracy & Wheels worked preparatory tasks for their EVA-15 spacewalk on 8/5.  Activities included –  Gathering & configuring EVA tools,Installing REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly) batteries #1008 into EMU 3005 (Wheels) & REBA #1012 into EMU 3009 (Tracy),Installing & checking out Video Camera #19 & HL (Helmet Light) #1008 on EMU 3005 and Camera #20 & HL #1006 on EMU 3009, andChecking out SAFER (Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue) units 1006 & 1007.  Working in the JAXA Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Shannon Walker installed a new centrifuge in the CBEF IU 1G (Cell Biology Experiment Facility Incubator Unit for 1G), where she had removed the old centrifuge on 7/26 (Monday).  Using copies of the latest Crew Handover Book delivered on Soyuz 23S, Caldwell-Dyson, Wheelock & Walker joined up for a 55-min E23-E24 handover session, starting with Crew Safety procedures and continuing with the remaining crew handover topics.  In final close-out activities after yesterday’s Orlan EVA, Alex Skvortsov worked in the DC1 (Docking Compartment) to re-integrate the Progress M-05M 37P cargo ship, docked at the nadir port, with the ISS by –  Conducting a leak check on the DC1/37P vestibule,Opening the DC1/SU & SU/37P hatches and installing the QD (quick disconnect) screw clamps (BZV) of the docking & internal transfer mechanism (SSVP) to rigidize the coupling,Deactivating the cargo ship,Installing the ventilation/heating air duct, andDismantling the docking mechanism (StM, Stykovochnovo mekhanizma) between the cargo ship and the DC-1 [StM is the "classic" probe-and-cone type, consisting of an active docking assembly (ASA) with a probe (SSh), which fits into the cone (SK) on the passive docking assembly (PSA) for initial soft dock and subsequent retraction to hard dock.  The ASA is mounted on the Progress' cargo module (GrO), while the PSA sits on the docking ports of the SM, FGB and DC-1].   The CDR also purged & charged the SrPK (air supply tankage) Section 2 of Progress 38P (M-06M) with N2 (nitrogen) and later, on TsUP Go, was to repressurize the ISS cabin atmosphere with N2 from 38P to make up total pressure.  Skvortsov also conducted the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PrK–Progress, DC1–Progress, PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment) – RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]  Other activities completed by FE-6 Walker included –  Starting another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later  [this was the 14th session with the new GC/DMS unit (#1004), after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware],Conducting the periodic status check & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5) payload in the Lab, andPerforming the periodic manual filling of the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) flush water tank (EDV-SV) in Node-3, terminated after ~26 min.  In the Lab, Tracy completed a functional checkout of the MELFI-3 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 3), which was connected to its umbilicals by Doug on 7/22.  FE-3 Kornienko did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].  Before sleeptime tonight, Skvortsov set up the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and started his 9th experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  Shannon configured the video equipment to record the ARED exercise sessions of FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5 & FE-6.   The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]   In addition to the post-EVA PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) of Mikhail & Fyodor, Alex & Tracy had their weekly PMCs, via S- & Ku-band audio/video, CDR at ~10:00am, FE-2 at ~11:30am EDT.  CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Monaco, Monaco (the tiny Principality of Monaco is a sovereign city-state of just over three-fourths of a square mile in area.  It is located on eastern part of the French Cote d’ Azure, between Nice and the Italian border.  This northeastward, nadir pass over this portion of the southern coast of France is in mid-morning with fair weather expected.  Looking for the waterfront airport for Nice and carefully map along the coast to catch the coastal strip of Monaco to the east-northeast), Aral Sea (the dramatic retreat and desiccation of the Aral Sea had been documented in Astronaut photography for decades now.  ISS had a nadir pass in early afternoon light under clear skies.  On this nadir pass approaching from the northwest, trying for contextual mapping with overlapping views of the individual remaining pools of this once large water body), Tehran, Iran (the Iranian capital with a population nearing 9 million is located in the northern part of the country about 70 miles south of the coast of the Caspian Sea.  ISS had a fine, fair-weather pass in mid-afternoon.  As ISS tracked southeastward over the south coast of the Caspian Sea towards the Alborz Range, looking just right of track for this sprawling, low-contrast urban area), Algiers, Algeria (the Algerian capital is located on the Mediterranean coast of this north-African nation.  On this mid-afternoon pass tracking over the western Mediterranean Sea, looking near nadir for this target as the station approached the coast.  With a population of 2 to 3 million, the city is also known as "Algiers the White" due to its abundance of white buildings.  Short lens views of the urban area and surroundings will provide context for higher resolution imagery), Coast Mts., BC, Canada (the crew had a midday pass in fair weather over these beautiful snowcapped mountains rising above the forests of western British Colombia.  ISS recently acquired a number of excellent context views of this target area.  Today CEO staff is using one of the crew’s views of the large Silverthrone Glacier, near nadir in the target area, to help acquire detailed mapping views of the glacier and its sustaining ice field), and Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic (the capital city of the Dominican Republic with a population of 2.2 million lies on the south coast of large Caribbean island of Hispaniola.  This pass is at mid-afternoon with partly cloudy conditions expected.  As ISS approached the south coast of the island from the northwest at this time, the crew was to look nadir for Santo Domingo).  