
43 Soyuz (43S) Launch/Dock: 43S launched at 4:02 PM CDT today and docked at 9:46 PM CDT. Hatch opening occurred at 11:56 PM CDT. With the arrival of Kjell Lindgren, Kimiya Yui and Oleg Kononenko the ISS returns to 6-crew operations. Following crew ingress, the ISS Safety Briefing will be performed to familiarizes the newly arrived crew with potential hazards and safety measures. The crew will also review emergency actions, roles and responsibilities and response to depressurization, fire and toxic events.
Fine Motor Skills: Kelly and Kornienko performed their Flight Day 120 session of Fine Motor Skills today.  In this experiment crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth’s gravity. The goal of the experiment is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
Space Headaches: Yui and Lindgren will perform their first Space Headaches questionnaire following their arrival on ISS.  They will complete the questionnaire daily for their first week on orbit then once per week for the remainder of their mission. Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment improves the understanding of such conditions which helps in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improve the well-being and performance of crew members in orbit. This can also improve the knowledge of similar conditions on Earth.
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Kelly gathered and transferred US tools in preparation for RS EVA #41 currently planned for August 10.  Battery maintenance for Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBA), Helmet Lights (HL), and Pistol Grip Tools (PGT) started last week will conclude this Friday.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are were completed unless otherwise noted.


Self-Reaction Test. Reaction Time Test (morning)
Morning Inspection. RSS 1, 2 Reboot / r/g 7437
Laptop RS1(2) Reboot / Onboard Computer System (БВС)
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor / r/g 9277
FINEMOTR – Experiment Ops
Replacement of SM Unit 800А АБ Module 3. Checkout of air duct sealing screws r/g 9395
Replacement of SM unit 800А Storage Battery Module No.3 – assistance / SM IVA
Fine Motor Skills – Experiment Ops / See OSTPV for Procedure
VEG-01 PLANT – Plant Photo
WRS Water Sample Analysis
TEPC Transfer
Replacement of SM unit 800А Storage Battery Module No.3 – assistance / SM IVA IMF
Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) – EVA Battery Assembly (REBA)
CALCIUM. Experiment session 10. / r/g 9396
Gathering US tools to support RS EVA
Transfer of Urine from RS/USOS EDV-U and brine from EDV-US to ТГК 425 (Aft) Rodnik БВ2 Tank r/g 9394
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position / Pressure Control & Atmosphere Monitoring System (СКДС)
USOS EVA tools Transfer to support RS EVA
Medical Locket Kit Audit / r/g 9386
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Battery Recharge Terminate
Start BSA Battery Charge
Closing USOS Window Shutters
Physical Fitness Evaluation (on treadmill)
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
TOCA Data Recording
Soyuz 717 ODF Procedures
Closing USOS Window Shutters
ISS HAM RADIO Power Down
Review Hatch Opening from MRM1 and Arrival of Expedition 44 TV Coverage procedure.
MERLIN – Desiccant Swap
Scheduled Maintenance of Compound Specific Analyzer- Combustion Products (CSA-CP)
Activation of Soyuz 716 (MRM2) Gas Analyzer
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
Closure of window shutters 6,8,9,12,13,14
СОЖ Maintenance
CONTROL. Switching Indicator-ISS P/L measuring modes
CQ outfitting after arrival
OTKLIK. Hardware Check
MPEG2 Multicast Test via Ku-band (Activation/Deactivation of TV data and MPEG2 Multicast controls)
Preparation of ТК 717 for Docking to MRM1
Comm Config before ТК 717 docking
Monitoring Soyuz 717 Rendezvous with ISS (MRM1)
Activation of MPEG2 Multicast TV Monitoring
Activation of mpeg2 multicast video recording mode
Video recording of capture and retraction through DC1 EV2 hatch during Soyuz 717 docking to MRM1
Switch MRM1 PEV – ТК to ELECTR CONTR position
Closing Applications and Downlink of MPEG2 Multicast video via OCA
Gathering exercise equipment
ТК 717 – MRM1 Interface Leak Check
Start Drying 2 space suits
Comm Reconfiguration for Nominal Ops after 717 Docking
Respiratory Support Pack Checkout
HABIT – Hardware activation
Hardware Setup in SM for Expedition 44 Arrival TV Coverage from SM
VEG-01 PLANT – Plant Photo
Equipment Setup in MRM1 for Hatch Opening TV Coverage from MRM1
JRNL – Journal Entry
Soyuz-MRM1 Hatch Opening TV Coverage of Expedition 44 Arrival
Soyuz-MRM1 Hatch Opening ‘
TV Coverage of Expedition 44 Arrival
Handover of the 3rd space suit and gloves for drying in ТПК 716
Closing Applications, Deactivation of camcorders and TV data monitors
Drying the 3rd spacesuit in ТК 716 – start
Safety briefing after ТК 717 docking
Photo of a scuff mark left by Active Docking Mechanism probe on the MRM1 Passive Mechanism Receiving Cone
Video downlink via OCA of capture and retraction during Soyuz 717 docking to MRM1
Handover of Expedition 43 Crew
Termination of Suit 1,2 Drying (ТК 717)
Installing the 1st pair of gloves for drying (ТК 717)
Download docking cone internal surface photos to OCA
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
ТК 717 Deactivation (without GA deactivation)
Terminate drying the first pair of gloves and start drying the second pair (ТК 717)
ТК 717 Deactivation (without GA deactivation)
SHD1ST – Survey Completion
Terminate drying the second pair of gloves (ТК 717)
Stowage of the 1st  and 2nd space suits and gloves after drying
Terminate the 3rd suit drying, start drying the 3rd pair of gloves (Soyuz 716)
Terminate drying the 3rd pair of gloves (ТК 716)
Handover of the 3rd space suit and gloves after drying in ТК 716
Stowage of the 3rd suit and gloves in TK 717 after drying
Closing USOS Window Shutters
Self-Reaction Test. Reaction Time Test (evening)

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


OPM execution
Soyuz docking operations

 