
Micro-11: Today the crew performed two sessions for the Micro-11 investigation. They checked out, configured and calibrated the Micro-11 microscope, thawed samples removed from a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER), fixed those samples and loaded them into the microscope for imaging. Afterwards, they inserted the samples into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). There are a total of thirteen runs for the Micro-11 investigation.  Micro-11 examines whether spaceflight alters human sperm, by tracking the swimming patterns of human and bull sperm during spaceflight. This investigation also assesses other aspects of sperm functionality related to male fertility. As a result, Micro-11 provides fundamental data indicating whether successful human reproduction beyond Earth is possible, and whether countermeasures are needed to protect sperm function in space.   
Amyloid: Today the crew detached the Measurement Experiment Units and retrieved samples and stowed them in a MELFI. Amyloid fibrils prepared in the microgravity environment of the ISS are returned to Earth for analysis through Nuclear Magnetic Resonance spectroscopy and electron microscopy. Amyloid fibrils are the peptide or protein aggregates known to be associated with various diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease and diabetes. It is expected that this study will provide additional insight into the mechanism of amyloid fibril formation. 
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST): Today the crew swabbed designated surfaces to collect samples and stowed them in a MELFI. They set up and used the Biomolecule Sequencer on previously amplified DNA that they prepared. The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for the identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  Today the crew collected surface and air samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation and placed them inside a MELFI. MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1-year period. After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time.
Aerosol Samplers: Today the crew will deploy Active Aerosol Samplers (AASs) in Node 2 and the US Laboratory. The battery-powered AASs actively pull in air and collect particles using the principal of thermophoresis. This is accomplished by flowing the sampled air through a large thermal gradient in a narrow channel. During this process, particles are driven to the cold side of the channel, where an electron microscope (EM) grid is held in place by a tiny magnet. When returned to Earth, these grids are easily removed and placed directly in an EM for analysis.
Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) #1: Last night JAXA ground robotics controllers used the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) to transfer the Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP) from the JEM Exposed Facility to the Slide Table. On Monday, the Slide Table will be brought back into the JEM and ExHAM samples will be exchanged before the HXP is returned to the JEM Exposed Facility. 
Periodic Preventive Maintenance: The crew performed nominal periodic preventive maintenance.  These maintenance activities were to:

perform a full water dump and fill on EMU 3004.  This activity purges gas buildup from the EMU water tanks. During the operations, they added iodinated water to meet the yearly requirement
remove and replace four expended Bacteria Filters in Node 1 and clean two Area Smoke Detectors.
remove and replace the WHC urine receptacle and insert filter.

Public Affairs Office (PAO) Live Events: There was one live PAO Event today.

Alexander Gerst participated in an ESA PAO event with the Kraftwerk Open Air concert at Jazz Festival in Stuttgart, Germany. The event demonstrated cooperation with internationally renowned electronic music pioneers Kraftwerk, based on common values like Man-Machine collaboration on the ISS, Science and Exploration and according key messages communicated to a large Europe-wide audience via media.

Dragon Cargo Transfer: This week, the crew started packing and loading cargo slated for return on Dragon.  They have completed approximately half of the time required for packing the vehicle. Additional time will be scheduled over the coming weeks.  Dragon unberth and release is currently scheduled for August 3, 2018.
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Aerosol Samplers Battery Charge
PK-4 Experiments Activities Familiarization
СТТС Configuration for MRM1
SEPARATSIYA. Distillation in auto (manual) mode. 
Micro-11 Microscope Checkout
Micro-11 Microscope Operations
EML High Speed Camera Lens Switch
BEST Swabbing Operations
Micro-11 MELFI Sample Return Bag Insertion
BEST MELFI Sample Insertion into a Box Module
Comm reconfig for nominal ops
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops
Cargo Transfer to Dragon
Amyloid Sample Detachment
Amyloid sample Insertion into MELFI -95 degrees C.
JPM  Moderate Temp Loop(MTL) Leak Locate
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
MRM1-FGB Quick-Disconnect Screw Clamp Tightening
Aerosol Active Samplers Hardware Deployment
Aerosol Active Samplers Hardware Photography
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
MSRR Master Control Check
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – COL
Microbial Tracking-2 Environmental Sample Collection
СТТС routine ops (LF link and VHF receiver health check). Headset Audit.  as necessary
Plant Habitat-01 Plant Harvest #2 Procedure Review
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygeine Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Full Water Tank Dump and Fill
СОЖ Maintenance
VHF2d comm check from SM (using primary СТТС sets) Return to nominal configuration
СТТС comm assets switchover to a backup set
In-flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 1 Bacteria Filter Remove and Replace (R&R)
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
VHF2d test from SM (using backup СТТС sets ) Return to nominal configuration
Magvector shutdown sequence
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) in Columbus
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. HAM Radio session with the U.N. Sultanov 7th International Aerospace School in Rep. Bashkortostan. 

Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Handhold EXP Platform transfer to JEMAL
Micro-11 support
BEST support

