07-26-2009July 26, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 07/26/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Sunday – FD (Flight Day) 12 of STS-127/2J/A.   Ahead:  Week 9 of Increment 20..    Crew sleep cycle:  Wake 4:03am, sleep 7:03pm EDT.   Upon wakeup, FE-1 Mike Barratt, FE-2-20 Tim Kopra, FE-4 Bob Thirsk & FE-5 Frank DeWinne continued their new session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   For the biomed experiment INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function), Barratt, Thirsk, De Winne and Tim Kopra collected one liquid saliva sample (samples need to be collected in the morning before eating, drinking, or brushing teeth).    [IMMUNE protocol requires the collection to occur first thing post-sleep, before eating, drinking and brushing teeth, and all samples are stored at ambient temperature.  Along with NUTRITION (Nutritional Status Assessment),  INTEGRATED IMMUNE  samples & analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects.]   Mike & Tim conducted their detailed checkout and inspection of the HMS CMRS (Health Maintenance System/Crew Medical Restraint System), stowed in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack.    [The board-like CMRS allows strapping down a patient on the board with a harness for medical attention by the CMO who is also provided with restraints around the device.  The device can be secured to the ISS structure within two minutes to provide a patient restraint surface for performing emergency medical procedures, such as during ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support).  It can also be used to transport a patient between the station and the Orbiter middeck.  It isolates the crew and equipment electrically during defibrillations and pacing electrical discharges, accommodates the patient in the supine zero-G positions, provides cervical spine stabilization and can also restrain two CMOs during their delivery of medical care.]   Barratt made preparations for tomorrow’s planned EVA-5 spacewalk, readying EVA tools, recharging the photo batteries and turning around the cameras used during EVA-4.   CDR Padalka & FE-3 Romanenko spent an hour on the TVIS treadmill for the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, his second time, using the TVIS in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.    [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmembers worked out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace.]   FE-1 performed a C&T (Communications & Tracking) comm check from the SM, testing audio signatures on the ground during docked ops.   FE-2 Wakata closed the protective shutters of the Lab and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) science windows in preparation for the Russian thruster testing at 5:26am EDT.   Wakata also spent more time on handover activities with FE-2-20 Tim Kopra.   In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Bob Thirsk set up the EPM LPT (European Physiology Module Laptop Terminal) and NES (NeuroSpat) experiment equipment, such as the MEEMM (Multi-Electrode Electroencephalogram Measurement Module) cables, free-floating & low-frequency head box #1, EEG (Electroencephalograph) cap with electrodes, etc., taking documentary photography.  Frank De Winne then donned the EEG cap and had ~70 min for performing his second NeuroSpat exercise session, assisted by Bob.  Afterwards, the gear was dismantled & stowed, the software closed down and the laptop deactivated.    [The MEEMM is a subsection of the EPM facility and will be used for different types of non-invasive brain function investigations. It can also easily be reconfigured to support research in the field of muscle physiology. NeuroSpat, the first experiment to use the EPM, investigates the ways in which crew members’ three-dimensional visual & space perception is affected by long-duration stays in weightlessness.]   Barratt & FE-2-20 Kopra conducted a detailed checkout and inspection of the HMS CMRS (Health Maintenance System/Crew Medical Restraint System), stowed in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack.    [The board-like CMRS allows strapping down a patient on the board with a harness for medical attention by the CMO who is also provided with restraints around the device.  The device can be secured to the ISS structure within two minutes to provide a patient restraint surface for performing emergency medical procedures, such as during ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support).  It can also be used to transport a patient between the station and the Orbiter middeck.  It isolates the crew and equipment electrically during defibrillations and pacing electrical discharges, accommodates the patient in the supine zero-G positions, provides cervical spine stabilization and can also restrain two CMOs during their delivery of medical care.]   Thirsk swapped onboard printers, transferring the defunct SM printer to the Endeavour and replacing it with the Shuttle printer.   CDR Padalka conducted an inventory/audit of AK-1M and IPD-1 samplers.   Frank De Winne performed a functional test of the BLB (Biolab) laptop terminal.   In preparation for the upcoming arrival of Progress 34P, Mike Barratt worked with Romanenko to configure & test the TV downlink from the SM over the MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoder via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-/band in “streaming video” packets.    [The setup involves the designated A31p laptop at the Lab RWS (Robotic Workstation) for converting analog-to-digital video, the video connection from the SONY HVR-Z1J digital high-definition camcorder and the ZVK LIV Experimental Video Complex in the SM over the MPEG-2 encoder.  After the test, with the RSCE PingMaster application, Barratt deactivated the A31p again.  The KL-211 MPEG-2 Encoder uses the RSS1 A31p laptop (for monitoring the digital video) and a U.S. SSC (Station Support Computer) A31p laptop (for converting analog TV from Russian PAL mode to U.S. NTSC).  The video hardware connection is checked with a network ping test.  The digital video transmission is carried over JSL(Joint Station LAN)/Ethernet plus OCA/Ku-Band to MCC-Houston and from there to Moscow via the ESA Gateway for COL-CC/Oberpfaffenhofen transmission to TsUP-Moscow, plus transfer of the USOS analog video of the RS ISS video downlink via Streambox 2 to NISN (i.e., the Moscow Ostankino communication hub).]   Gennady performed the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways.   At ~3:28pm EDT, the joint crew conducted an in-depth one-hour review of procedures for the EVA-4 spacewalk tomorrow, with egress scheduled tomorrow at ~8:33am.   For EVA-5 tomorrow, at ~5:58pm tonight MS3 Tom Marshburn (EV1) & MS1 Chris Cassidy (EV2) began their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) in the A/L (Airlock) with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe at ~5:58pm-7:03pm and sleep.   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-4), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-2, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-2, FE-3).    Later, Mike transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).   At ~2:18pm the joint crew conducted a news conference with media assembled at NASA centers, and at 3:08pm made the traditional crew photo.   CDRA Shutdown Problem Update:    On 7/25, the U.S. CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly) adsorbent bed heater temperatures started trending high during Half Cycle 1 (HC 1).   During nominal HC1 heater cycling bed temperatures continued to increase until RPCM 17, which feeds the primary bed heaters, tripped.  Several troubleshooting steps were performed, but none of these attempts were successful.   Maximum temperature reached was ~435 deg F, which is above the automated software “runaway” heater shutoff limit command from the LA3 MDM (430 deg F), but below the CDRA heater controller shutoff limit of 460 deg F.  Nominal MDM control of CDRA heater results in cycling ON below 395 deg F, and OFF above 400 deg F.  CDRA is in manual mode and nominally scrubbing CO2. A remove & replace decision will be made on FD 13.   