
Payloads:
Immunity Assay: The crew collected and processed various biological samples in support of the multi-day experiment session. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
ISS Ham Pass: A Ham pass was held with Mohammad Bin Rashid Space Centre (MBRSC), Dubai, UAE. MBRSC’s educational programs aim to instill a culture based on discovery and exploration in future generations of all education levels. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Neutron Star Interior Composition Explorer (NICER): The crew performed a photographic survey of the NICER optics from the MRM2 module window. The images will be evaluated by the ground team to look for any possible damage to the components in the detector systems. Neutron stars, the glowing cinders left behind when massive stars explode as supernovas, are the densest objects in the universe and contain exotic states of matter that are impossible to replicate in any lab. They shine most brightly in narrow beams that sweep the sky as the stars spin; from a great distance, they appear to pulse like lighthouse beacons (hence the name “pulsars”). From its perch aboard the ISS, NICER studies the extraordinary physics of these stars, providing new insights into their nature and behavior.
Snowcone Cloud Edge Compute Demonstration (Snowcone): In preparation for a three-day experiment run, the crew connected the appropriate Snowcone power cables and powered up the system. Snowcone demonstrations focus on commercial and governmental interest in computing, storage, and transfer of data within the low Earth orbit network. These demonstrations explore various capabilities related to data fusion, artificial intelligence and machine learning, cyber security, and communications from a variety of partners.
Telescience Resource Kit (TReK): A neutral density (ND) filter was installed in the JEM forward window in support of TReK demo activities. TReK demo will be used to support the ISS Research and Development Conference, which is being held this week. TReK is a software package that simplifies the software running on the ISS, benefiting users on Earth.
Systems:
JEM Remote Manipulator (JEMRMS) Robotics Laptop Terminal (RLT) Operations: The crew reconfigured the JEMRMS RLT setup by swapping the locations and connections of RLT 2 and 3, and setting up the RLT 3 Basic Input/Output System (BIOS). The JEMRMS is a manipulator system that supports experiments on the JEM Exposed Facility. It consists of a Main Arm for payload handling up to 7,000 kg (15400 lb) and a Small Fine Arm for payload handling and ORU change-out capability with a 300 kg (660 lb) payload capacity. 
Photo/TV Starboard ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) and Solar Array Wing (SAW) Survey Imagery: Micro Meteroid and Orbital Debris (MMOD) present a potential risk to the solar arrays.  In order to determine current physical condition of SAW and IROSA structures, The crew took HD photos of IROSA 1B and 3A and SAW 1B and 3A. The SAWs are the main power generating systems of the ISS. They produce electrical power from solar energy. IROSAs are new arrays being installed on the already existing SAWs. They provide additional power for the proposed commercial modules to the station.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT): The crew completed OBT in preparation for Cygnus NG-19 arrival, which is currently planned for August 4th. This OBT helps prepare the crew with operating the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) for Cygnus capture operations. Cygnus is captured by astronauts operating the SSRMS for berthing to the ISS.
Cygnus Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout: The CBCS is a camera system used to provide relative state information to the SSRMS operator. This is installed onto the port that the vehicle will be berthed to. Robotics operators use the camera view as a physical check of the arm and vehicle alignment before giving Ready to Latch (RTL) indicators to begin for berthing. Cygnus NG-19 is planned for arrival August 4th.
Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) GN2 Check: Crew conducted checkouts on the EVA SAFER systems. The batteries have been losing voltage and state of charge faster than expected and ground teams requested additional data from on-orbit SAFER units to support the investigation. The Power and Battery was verified and data sent to appropriate team. Essentially a “life jacket” for spacewalks, SAFER is a self-contained maneuvering unit that is worn like a backpack. The system relies on small jet thrusters to let an astronaut move around in space.
Completed Task List Activities:

None.

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEMRMS C&C MDM Bus C/O
JEMRMS WS BUS Checkout
MSS Maneuver to Park
MSS Hot Backup Powerup/Deconfiguration
CBCS Installation and Checkout
SAW Commanding for Survey

