
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  On Sunday the crew completed the first day of bone scans and sampling for RR-5.  Later today they will perform the second set of scans and sampling operations.  Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system, it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight.
Marrow:  Over the weekend two crewmembers collected breath, air and blood samples for the Marrow investigation. They collected blood samples today as well. The blood samples are collected, processed in the centrifuge and placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  The Marrow investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow. 
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): On Saturday the crew completed a series of interactive tasks during a FMS session. The investigation studies how the fine motor skills are effected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of the investigation is to determine how fine motor performance in microgravity varies over the duration of six-month and year-long space missions; how fine motor performance on orbit compares with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance varies before and after gravitational transitions, including periods of early flight adaptation and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
Space Headaches:  Over the weekend the 51S USOS crewmembers completed daily questionnaires for Space Headaches.  They will complete additional questionnaires later today.  The European Space Agency (ESA) Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission. 
Sarcolab-3: The crew set up and configured the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) facility in the Columbus module for Sarcolab-3 operations.  They installed the Ankle configuration and Electromyograph and Percutaneous Electrical Stimulation (PEMS) devices on MARES. The data collected for Sarcolab-3 will be compared to pre and post flight measurements to assess the impact of hypothesized microgravity induced muscle loss.  Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus, or calf muscle, where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM):  The crew ingressed the BEAM, flipped the 10 mm thick Radiation Environment Monitor (REM) shield and photographed it. This REM Shield was previously printed on the 3D printer onboard the ISS and installed in the BEAM.  BEAM is an experimental expandable module attached to the ISS.  Expandable modules weigh less and take up less room on a rocket than a traditional module, while allowing additional space for living and working. They provide protection from solar and cosmic radiation, space debris, and other contaminants. Crews traveling to the moon, Mars, asteroids, or other destinations may be able to use them as habitable structures.
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS 3D): The crew installed passive radiation detectors in the Columbus module in support of European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) DOSIS 3D investigation. Data from the various active and passive radiation detectors installed in the ISS are used in the determination of the radiation field parameters absorbed doses and dose equivalents inside the ISS. A concise three dimensional (3D) dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS will be developed, based on this data and data from JAXA and NASA monitoring devices.
Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of 51S, all crew members participated in this review. Items of discussion included crew accountability, access to escape vehicles and CDR responsibilities. Each crew member must be fully aware of procedure strategy and intent due to the complex nature of an emergency event. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

ODF Books Update on iPAD
Test video coverage for RT channel
COSMOCARD. Preparation and start of a 24 h- long ECG recording 
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
ECON-M. Observation and photography
Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Collection
МО-8. Configuration Setup
Reminder 2 Marrow CSA Generic Frozen Blood Collection
CSA Generic Frozen Blood Collection 25 Minutes – Subject
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
CSA Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Configure Handover
SARCOLAB-3 day 1 reminder
JEM Airlock Press
МО-8. Closeout Ops
CSA Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude Handover
CSA Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
CSA Generic Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow Handover
Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
RADIOSKAF. Test checks of nanosatellites
Water Recovery and Management Condensate Pump Gather
JEM Airlock Leak Check
Water Recovery and Management Condensate Pumping Init
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
Glacier Desiccant Swap
SARCOLAB-3 Big Picture reading
Deactivation of Soyuz 735 Gas Analyzer
Procedures, preliminary EVA-43 timeline review, DVD viewingWater Recovery and Management Condensate Pumping Term
ARED Handover Video Review
MARES deployment
Water Recovery and Management Condensate Pumping Restow
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill – Handover
MARES Power On and Battery Charge
MARES Ankle configuration installation
Bringing ODF up to date using Soyuz 736 delivered files
ISS Crew Adaptation
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
MARES Battery Charge
Rodent Research 5 Dissection 2A
Rodent Research 5 Dissection 2B
Rodent Research Refrigerated Centrifuge Setup
Test activation of Vozdukh Atmosphere Purification System Emergency Vacuum Valves
Rodent Research Bone Densitometer Scan
Pressurization of Elektron-VM Liquid Unit before Activation
Rodent Research MELFI Insert
Deactivation of Soyuz 736 Gas Analyzer
Rodent Research Bone Densitometer Scan
Rodent Research MELFI Insert
Rodent Research Refrigerated Centrifuge Configure
Rodent Research Bone Densitometer Scan
MARES Battery Charge control
ISS Crew Adaptation
Rodent Research MELFI Insert
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
EMG and PEMS installation with PEMS Self test
Rodent Research MELFI Insert 2
Rodent Research Bone Densitometer Scan
Rodent Research MELFI Insert
Rodent Research Refrigerated Centrifuge Configure
Rodent Research 5 Dissection 2B
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude Final

Completed Task List Items

Transfer 51 Soyuz USOS Unpack  [Completed GMT 210]
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training [Completed GMT 211]
Photo documenting the LAB1P2_G2 Fire Port and label [Completed GMT 211]
Restow REBA batteries  [Completed GMT 211]
Provide video of deployment of printed part (S/N 028) near cupola windows [Completed GMT 212]
Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Pull Tab  [Completed GMT 212]
Photo documenting the LAB1P2_G2 Fire Port and label  [Completed GMT 212]
EML Gas Valves Closing  [Completed GMT 212]
CEVIS Isolator Inspection  [Completed GMT 212]
Checkout of ISA Scopemeter Pressure Probes with Battery Replacement  [Completed GMT 212]
Columbus EPM and EDR racks photo documentation  [Completed GMT 212]
iPad 3 FIT Screenshots   [Completed GMT 212]

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

JEMRMS Maneuver to Stow SFA
Rodent Research ops support
MT translation from WS6 to WS8 [In work]

