08-03-2010August 03, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/03/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Upon wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Before breakfast & exercise, CDR Skvortsov, FE-3 Kornienko & FE-5 Yurchikhin each completed a 10-min session with the periodic Russian MedOps test "Hematokrit" (MO-10), which measures the red cell count of the blood, with one of them acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer, Russian: “Examiner”).  It was the first session for the three of them.     [The blood samples were drawn from a finger with a perforator lancet, then centrifuged in two microcapillary tubes in the M-1100 kit's minicentrifuge, and its hematocrit value was read off the tubes with a magnifying glass.  It is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell count (normal range: 30-45%) tends to go down over time.  After the exam, the data were saved in the IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).]  Kornienko & Yurchikhin each took the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, spending an hour on the TVIS treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.     [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmember rests for 5 min., then works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h for 2 min, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h for 1 min, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace to 3.5 km/h].  In preparation for the two emergency EVAs on 8/6 & 8/9 to replace the failed ETCS (External Thermal Control System) Loop-A NH3 (ammonia) pump module, Caldwell-Dyson, Wheelock & Walker jointly conducted a 1-hr review of NH3 decontamination procedures uplinked overnight.      [NH3, a toxic substance, in vapor form will not stick to the EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) spacesuits; solid contamination will likely bounce off, but may be caught in fabric folds; liquid contamination freezes on the EMUs.  Mechanical removal (i.e., brushing off) is useless for ammonia.  Instead, sublimation through conductive heat transfer is the most effective way to eliminate NH3 contamination.  A heated tool pressed against a contaminated EMU surface area, then removed, will allow NH3 to sublimate.  After removal of all visible ammonia, the EMU must be “baked out” for the equivalent of 30 minutes in the C/L (Crewlock).  Sometime after the bakeout, the crewmember must ingress the A/L (Airlock) again for about 2h20m to allow for testing and an additional A/L depress/repress cycle, if the contamination test in the C/L indicates more bakeout is needed.]  Afterwards, Tracy & Wheels prepared the A/L for the spacewalks and also worked on the EVA tools, reconfiguring/restowing the equipment originally intended for EVA-15 and unstowing tools needed for the PM R&Rs.  Activities performed by CDR Skvortsov today included –  The (roughly) annual functional testing of the two Russian SUDN pilot sighting instruments VP-2 & “Puma” which he installed at SM (Service Module) window #8 for the checkup  [the Puma Portable Zoom Viewfinder is used to view remote objects and determine their angular position in the SM coordinate system in order to provide geographical reference of observed terrestrial objects, and to determine the target vector in a specified coordinate system.  The 240K Pilot Sight (VP-2) is a collimator-type device for determining the direction to observed reference points relative to the station coordinate for geographical reference of observed terrestrial objects and to determine the direction vector to controlled & uncontrolled objects and measure their angular sizes],Conducting periodic (monthly) maintenance on the deactivated Russian IK0501 GA (Gas Analyzer) of the SOGS Pressure Control & Atmospheric Monitoring System behind SM panel 449 by replacing its CO2 filter assembly (BF) with a new unit from FGB stowage (done last: 6/23)  [IK0501 is an automated system for measuring CO2, O2, and H2O in the air, as well as the flow rate of the gas being analyzed],Performing the periodic (monthly) functional closure test of the Vozdukh CO2 (carbon dioxide) removal system’s spare AVK emergency vacuum valves, in the spare parts kit   [the AVKs are crucial because they close the Vozdukh's vacuum access lines in the event of a malfunction in the regular vacuum valves (BVK) or a depressurization in the Vozdukh valve panel (BOA).  Access to vacuum is required to vent CO2 during the regeneration of the absorbent cartridges (PP)],Completing the periodic Russian SPOPT (Fire Detection & Suppression System) maintenance, today in the DC1, by dismantling its IDZ-2 smoke detectors, cleaning their ionizing needles and then reinstalling the sensors  [part of the job is to inspect surrounding areas behind panels and to clean those surfaces and the inlet grille with microbial growth wipes],Continuing the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today working in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok) and using a vacuum cleaner and soft brush to clean filters and fan grilles of the TsV1,2 central circulation ventilators, the detachable VT7 fan screens of the three SOTR gas-liquid heat exchangers (GZhT4), plus the fixed GZhT4 grill,Performing the periodic accuracy checks on six RS vacuum pressure gauges (MV), andDoing the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM  [regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].  Fyodor Yurchikhin completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  With the VCA-1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) running for ground monitoring, Tracy performed a functional calibration check on the ESA ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular).     [This involved taking the optical target from ERB-2 CTB (cargo transfer bag), positioning the optical target; switching on ERB-2 and pressing calibration button, pointing to the optical target and recording a short movie.  After 30sec, Tracy kept camera recording while the ground checked and adapted gain parameters. Here crew records a second scene of the movie (total movie is about 6 min).]  In the MRM2 Poisk module, FE-5 Yurchikhin prepared the Russian Glavboks-S (Glovebox S) for the bioscience experiment ASEPTIC (BTKh-39), first taking documentary photographs and video of the setup, then collecting surface and air samples from the Glavboks for stowage in the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic refrigerator at +37 degC, followed by sterilizing the equipment and again taking samples.  FE-6 Walker conducted the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) in Node-3, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.      [After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]  Additionally, Shannon Walker –  Completed the periodic CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) and pumps inspection,Performed the regular re-calibration of the two hand-held CSA-O2 (CSA-Oxygen) instruments #1041 and #1045, the 6th calibration after their delivery on Mission 20A,Terminated the “bake-out” regeneration of METOX (Metal Oxide) CO2 absorber canisters in the US A/L (Airlock) and stowed them for the upcoming spacewalk activities,Performed the periodic (monthly) battery check and reboot of all active US PCS (Portable Computer System) and the COL PWS (Portable Workstation) laptops,Disconnected the OGS (Oxygen Generation System) O2 from its three-way QD (quick disconnect) to support long term OGS deactivation,Relocated the IWIS (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System) accelerometer from Node-3 port endcone to COL starboard endcone for next DTF (Dedicated Thruster Test, S4-1A DTF),Moved an IWIS RSU (Remote Sensor Unit) to the COL in preparation for the S4-1A DTF, andConducted the monthly FDS PEP (Fire Detection & Suppression/Portable Emergency Provisions) safety inspection/audit in the ISS modules, including QDMAs (Quick-Don Mask Assembly)  [the 30-min IMS-supported inspection involves verification that PFEs (Portable Fire Extinguishers), PBAs, QDMAs and EHTKs (Extension Hose/Tee Kits) are free of damage to ensure their functionality, and to track shelf life/life cycles on the hardware (there are 2 PFEs, 1 PBA, 1 QDMA, 1 EHTK in Node-1, 1 PFE, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs 2 EHTKs in Node-2, 1 PFE, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs, 1 EHTK in Node-3, 1 PFE, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs in A/L, 2 PFEs, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs, 1 EHTK in the Lab, 2 PFEs, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs in JPM, 1 PFE in JLP, and 2 PFEs, 2 PBAs, 2 QDMAs in COL/Columbus Orbital Laboratory).]  Mikhail Kornienko removed & relocated stowage items from unauthorized locations in the FGB.  FE-3 also repacked SLG hygienic wipes in order of usage priority, including wet wipes, wet towels, dry wipes, dry waffle-weave towels, body washing kits, etc., while separating out expired items for disposal.  Before sleep time, Mikhail initiated battery recharge for the KPT-2 Piren instrument for another run.      [Piren-B, a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, is part of the methods & means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Besides Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  