
SpaceX-15 Dragon Unberth and Release: Early this morning, the crew removed power connections, utility jumpers and completed closeout of the Dragon vehicle prior to depressurization of the Node 2 (N2) Nadir vestibule. Robotics ground controllers used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to unberth Dragon at 9:37 AM CDT and the crew released the vehicle at 11:37 AM CDT. Once the vehicle was clear, specialists maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position and provide video support of the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) petals closure. Dragon is scheduled to splashdown in the Pacific Ocean at 5:17 PM CDT this afternoon.  
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Leak Isolation: Beginning on GMT 199 (July 19), JAXA control center detected a continuous decrease in accumulator quantities from the JEM MTL. The leak rate is less than 20-30 mL/day and is considered a slow leak. On GMT 207 (July 26), the crew found ~200 mL of water near the Regenerative Heat Exchanger (RHX) in the JPM starboard endcone toward the aft-deck. On GMT 213 (Aug 1), the crew took Ortho-Phthalaldehyde (OPA) test samples to determine if the water is due to MTL leak or is condensation, unfortunately the test was inconclusive. Today the crew started performing additional leak isolation steps by removing the Ryutai and Kobairo Rack Accumulators from the MTL.
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-M-2: The crew configured the LMM Objective lenses in the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) and installed a sample. In the ACE-M-2 investigation, a model colloidal system is used to observe the microscopic behavior of liquids and gases separating from each other, near the critical point, via a process called spinodal decomposition.
Mobile Procedure Viewer (MobiPV): The crew was unable to get MobiPV to operate properly today.  Ground experts are developing plans for troubleshooting. MobiPV is intended to allow users to view procedures hands-free and aims to improve the efficiency of activity execution by giving crewmembers a wireless set of wearable, portable devices that utilize voice navigation and a direct audio/video link to ground experts. A smartphone is the primary device to interface with procedures. Images provided in procedure steps can be displayed on a Google Glass display. 
Chemical Gardens: The crew removed a Chemical Gardens 2 ampoule kit from a Cargo Transfer Bag, broke the seal between the ampoules and mixed the contents of both. In the Chemical Gardens experiment, selected metal salts are added to an aqueous solution of sodium silicate (Na2SiO3), resulting in the formation of inorganic structures that resemble plant growth in a time span ranging from minutes to hours. On Earth, gravity-induced flow due to buoyancy differences between the reactants complicates our understanding of the physics behind these “chemical gardens”. Conducting this experiment in the microgravity environment onboard the ISS removes the gravity effects, ensures diffusion-controlled growth, and allows researchers a better assessment of initiation and evolution of chemical gardens.
MagVector 3D: The crew performed two sample exchanges for ESA’s MagVector investigation. Twelve different samples will be processed on the ISS. MagVector supports a study of how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research is expected to help improve future ISS experiments and electrical experiments, and could offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general. 
Lighting Effects: The Lighting Effects investigation activities planned for today were postponed to allow the crew to focus on other scheduled activities. 
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS): The crew transferred images from the BCAT-CS camera; checked that the camera alignment and focus were still intact by viewing the latest BCAT images and reset the intervalometer. BCAT-CS focuses on the study of forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles. Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration. 
Rodent Research-7 (RR-7): In support of the on-going RR-7 investigation, the crew refilled the rodent habitat water supply using the water refill kit. 
Team Task Switching (TTS): A crewmember completed a TTS survey today. When crewmembers are required to switch their attention between tasks frequently, performance on each of the tasks can be negatively affected. The objective of the TTS investigation is to gain knowledge about whether or not crewmembers have difficulty in switching tasks and determine the impacts of these switches, in order to both reduce any negative consequences and improve individual and team motivation and effectiveness.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Gather and Tether Inspection: Today the crew gathered and inspected US EVA hardware for use during the upcoming Russian EVA. Previously charged batteries, Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) camera assemblies, swing arm assemblies, a trashbag, and a crewlock bag were gathered and prepared for handover to the Russian crew. Soft goods on each Safety Tether, Waist Tether, and D-Ring Extender were inspected for Micrometeoroid/Orbital Debris (MMOD) damage, broken tack stitches, and fraying prior to clearing them for EVA use. The Russian EVA is currently scheduled for August 15.
Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) Maintenance: This afternoon the crew performed a checkout on SAFER S/N 1013. During the activity, they measured the SAFER regulator pressure under flow and no-flow conditions, performed a leak check, and measured the relief valve opening and reseating pressure to satisfy two-year on-orbit maintenance requirements.
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Dragon/Node 2 VESTIBULE DEPRESS Gather and Setup
JEM Airlock Depressurization
СТТС comm system switchover to the primary set
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) Weekly Conference
Dragon Egress in Preparation for Departure
JPM TCA M Gas Trap Byp Vlv Visual Check
MORNING PREPARATION WORK
Installation of charger ЗУ-С No.13010004
RADIOSKAF. Disconnecting Tanusha-SWSU No.4 Nanosatellite from the Charger. Load return CTBs into DRA15_S1A1 and DRA_15 S1A2.
Mating telemetry connectors to ЗУ-С charger
MSPR/MSPR2 Isolation Preparation
RADIOSKAF. Nanosatellite Prep Ops prior to EVA.
Team Task Switching Experiment Survey Subject
RADIOSKAF. Photo/Video Ops
Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Rotation, Installation, and Closeout
Activation and Inspection of Orlan-MKS No.5.
Activation and Inspection of Orlan-MKS No.4.
Dragon Vestibule Configuration for Demate
JAXA MSPR Rack and MSPR2 Rack MTL Isolation
DC1 Spacesuit Interface Unit (БСС) Checkout.
ПхО БСС checkout
KMA-01 SW Update RSE-Med Laptop.
Orlan-MKS No.5 and БСС gas/water separation in DC1.
Orlan-MKS No.4 and БСС gas/water separation in DC1.
Magvector 3D Sensor Array Sample Exchange and Data transfer to SSC11.
Dragon/Node 2 VESTIBULE DEPRESS
JEM Airlock Vent
Water Refill Kit Review
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Water Refill Kit Habitat H2O Fill
USOS Window Shutter Close
JEM Airlock Vent Confirmation
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Calibration Check
Activate the mobile procedure viewer smartphone hardware and software
mobiPV Checkout [Deferred]
Hand Ergometry Assessment.
mobiPV Stowage
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Rack Doors Open
RFID Reader Remove and Replace.
Cleaning Fluid System by using Degassing Pump Unit (БОС) in ПхО.
Monitoring shutter closure on windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14.  Note 6
ACE-M2 Sample Configuration
Crew Command Panel (CCP) Cable Route and Checkout
Radio Frequency Identification Logistics CTB Stow
Crew will gather IFM items for trash.
Change Orlan-MKS No.4 Telemetry Unit БРТА-2 to Orlan 2 frequency
Robotic Workstation (RWS) High Definition (HD) Monitor Downlink
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Calibration Check Data Record
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
Gathering gear for Orlan-MKS No.4.
Gathering gear for Orlan-MKS No.5.
Chemical Gardens MWA Preparation
Orlan-MKS No.5 ORUs Ops, post-setup inspection.
Orlan-MKS No.4 ORUs Ops, post-setup inspection.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Rack Doors Close
Lighting Effects Visual Performance Tests Light Setting Subject [Deferred]
Chemical Gardens Mix Ops
Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Gather
Magvector shutdown sequence
Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) Maintenance
SSRMS Dragon Release Procedure Review and Briefing with Ground M1
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Dragon Release from Node 2 Nadir (N2N) Preparation
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Dragon release and departure monitoring
Vascular Echo Exercise Band Locate
Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Transfer
Handover of US EVA Tools to RS crew before RS EVA-45
Restow Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK)
Chemical Gardens Mix Ops
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Teardown
Robotic Workstation (RWS) High Definition (HD) Monitor Deactivation
Crew Command Panel (CCP) Cable Deroute
COTS UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Deactivation
Magvector 3D Sensor Array Sample Exchange
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sedimentation Camera Activities
Hatch Seal Inspection
ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference

Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Dragon Unberth and Release
ACE Support
BCAT Support

