
Ocular Health (OH) Flight Day 10 (FD10): Yui and Lindgren, with Kelly as Crew Medical Officer (CMO), performed Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer. At the end of the crew day, again with Kelly’s assistance, Yui and Lindgren used the fundoscope to obtain images of the retinal surface. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (KP):  During the scheduled image transfer time, Kelly discovered that the BCAT camera had a dead battery.  He attempted a manual transfer from the camera’s memory card but received an error.  Ground specialists believe that a bubble is in the Field of View of the camera, and may require re-running the sample.  Teams are discussing the forward plan for BCAT.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: Kelly and Kornienko are performing their week of sleep logging.  Within fifteen minutes of wakeup, the crew answers questions from the SleepLog application on the Station Support Computer (SSC).  Kelly also completed his FD132 Fine Motor Skills, and is scheduled for a Habitability Walk-through video #3 and Observation #8.

The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity, and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness, to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the International Space Station (ISS).
In the Fine Motor Skills experiment crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of Fine Motor Skills is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as Near Earth Asteroids (NEA) and Mars. The ultimate goal is to understand how much habitable volume is required for vehicle internal design and layout, and if mission duration impacts the volume needed.

 
On-board Training (OBT) HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Rendezvous Review: In preparation for HTV-5 arrival scheduled for August 20, Lindgren and Yui participated in a conference with ground teams to discuss the training session and address any questions the crew had. They then completed proficiency training covering the mission profile, the rendezvous crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HRF – Sample Collection and Stowage
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Ocular Health (OH) – Hardware Setup
SPHERES – Battery Charging
ISS Crew / SSIPC FD Conference
Node 1 Stowage Reconfiguration
Specific EVA Procedure Review. / r/g 9533
Removal of [СА] TV Cameras 1,2  and Light Units in ТК 717 [CA]. [СА] TV cameras 1,2
FINEMOTR – Experiment Ops
Study of Cardiovascular System Under Graded Physical Load on VELO.
Study of cardiovascular system under graded physical load on VELO (assistance)
Ocular Health (OH) OCT Exam – Operator
Ocular Health (OH) – OCT Exam
JEM Stowage Consolidation
Preventive Maintenance of SM АСП-О and ТПК 425 Hatch Sealing Mechanisms
MATRYOSHKA-R. Monitoring Lulin-5 readings / r/g 9240
Setting up NASA gear to be used with Orlan-MK
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
HABIT – Video Recording
Psychological Evaluation Program (WinSCAT)
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
BCAT – Transfer of images from the camera
Study of cardiovascular system under graded physical load on VELO (assistance)
Study of Cardiovascular System Under Graded Physical Load on VELO
Ocular Health (OH) OCT Exam – Operator
OH – OCT Exam
Ocular Health (OH) – Equipment Stowage
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
ISS Repress Using Nitrogen-Oxygen Mix from ТГК 425 (Aft) СрПК Section 2 (start)
Install Orlan-MK Attached Equipment. Photography and Photo Downlink. / r/g 9532, 9527
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
HABIT – Hardware activation
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
ISS Repress Using Nitrogen-Oxygen Mix from ТГК 425 (Aft) СрПК Section 2 (end)
HTV Docking Conference.
Installation of Orlan-MK Attached Equipment.  Photography and Photo Downlink r/g 9532, 9527
HTV Rendezvous OBT
Flushing БКО, Replacement of СРВ-К2М Purification Column Unit (БКО) r/g 9534
HTV Rendezvous OBT
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
ТКГ 428 (DC1) Activation, Air Duct Removal / Deactivation/Activation
Robotics Procedure Rewiew
Removal of Internal Transfer System (ССВП) Quick-Release Screw Clamps and Video of DC1-ТКГ 428 Interface
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
DC1-ТКГ 428 (DC1) Hatch Closure / Deactivation/Activation
COSMOCARD. Preparation Ops. Starting 24-hr ECG Recording / r/g 9526
DC1-СУ and СУ- ТКГ 428 Hatch Leak Check / Deactivation/Activation
OH – Fundoscope Setup
RSS1 Diagnostics / r/g 9531
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
OH – Fundoscope Setup
OH – Fundoscope Exam (Operator)
OH – Fundoscope Exam
VEG-01 – Plant Pillow Fill
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
OH – Fundoscope Setup
EVA Medical Kit Configuration / r/g 9525
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Closing USOS Window Shutters
OH – Fundoscope Exam
OH – Hardware Stowage
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
Self-Reaction Test

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HTV Prox GPS monitor
Ocular Health ops

 
