
Crew Dragon Return: SpaceX Demo-2 undocked from the ISS on Saturday, August 1st. The Crew Dragon vehicle splashed down safely in the Gulf of Mexico on Sunday, August 2nd at 1:48pm CT. The Demo-2 crew spent 9 weeks aboard the ISS performing maintenance and payloads activities during this time. The crew completed approximately 100 hours of utilization while performing technical demonstrations and checkouts of the Dragon vehicle.
Payloads
Electromagnetic Levitator (EML):  The crew closed the helium gas valve and opened the argon gas valve on the EML (ElectroMagnetic Levitator).  The also reconfigured other EML valves to support a leak check following the hardware removal/installation last week.  The ground team reports the test is going well so far.  The EML is a 360 kg multi-user facility designed for container-less materials processing in space. It supports research in the areas of meta-stable states and phases along with the measurement of highly accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys at high temperatures.  EML can accommodate up to 18 samples, each 5 to 8 mm in size.  Heating rates of up to 100 Kelvin per second can be achieved with a maximum temperature of 2,100°C.
Plasma Kristal-4:  The crew removed the Ultra Bay Adapter of the PK4 Video Monitor and inserted the Floppy disk.  PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of “Complex Plasmas”: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. PK -4 aims to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, dynamical processes, and instabilities in complex plasmas.
Systems
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 1 Filter Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew removed Charcoal Filters in Node 1 and replaced them with Charcoal HEPA Integrated Particle Scrubber (CHIPS) filters. The charcoal filters were originally swapped last month to mitigate benzene levels in the ISS.  The ground team was concerned over time the charcoal portion of the CHIPS filter had absorbed benzene potentially causing other compounds to push the benzene off the filters contributing to an elevated benzene level.
Completed Task List Activities:

Node 3 Ethernet Switch Assessment

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Ground Support for N1 Filter R&R

