
Ocular Health (OH) Flight Day 10 (FD10): Yui and Lindgren, with Kelly as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO), performed vision tests, tonometry, blood pressure measurement, and answered a vision questionnaire.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Defining the Relationship Between Biomarkers of Oxidative and Inflammatory Stress and the Risk for Atherosclerosis in Astronauts During and After Long-duration Spaceflight (Cardio Ox): Lindgren reviewed reference material, configured the ultrasound for his FD15 session and collected blood pressure and ultrasound measurements of the carotid and brachial arteries with Yui acting as CMO.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans will be obtained at the same time points as well as through 5 years after landing as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 Return To Service (RTS): EMU 3011 RTS activities continued today. Kelly verified successful installation of the Fan Pump Separator (FPS) when he performed visual water leakage inspection, structural gas leakage test at the maximum operating suit pressure, and a long-duration leak check. EMU data and video were downlinked to the ground for review to determine readiness of the EMU to support EVA operations.
 
On Board Training (OBT) Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) Drill: The 43S crew reviewed procedures, hardware and communication methods necessary to manage a medical emergency onboard ISS.  Emergency medical equipment was deployed and the crew practiced Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) positioning to ensure familiarity with procedure execution should a medical emergency occur.
 
Node 1 (N1) Galley Rack Prep: Kelly continued reorganizing N1 stowage in preparation for the Galley Rack arriving on HTV-5. Today’s activities focused on relocating infrequently used photo/TV hardware from N1 to Permanent Multi-purpose Module (PMM).
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Saliva Collection – Subject
МО-8. Setup
Morning Inspection
Body Mass Measurement
MELFI Sample Insertion
Ocular Health Experiment – Vision Test
МО-8. Closeout Ops
HTV Hardware Command Panel (HCP) Self-check
Ocular Health (OH) – Vision Questionnaire
Tropical Cyclone Target  Operations
Verification of anti-virus scan results on Auxiliary Computer System (ВКС) laptops / r/g 8247
Comm Config / EVA FROM DC, ORLAN-MK OPS
Regeneration of БМП Ф2 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
Ocular Health (OH) Blood Pressure Operations
OH – Blood Pressure Operations Operator
Checkout of Biomed УСИ BETA-08 Using Gamma-1M r/g 9515
Ocular Health (OH) – Tonometry Test Setup
Ocular Health (OH) Blood Pressure Operations
OH – Blood Pressure Operations – Operator
Ocular Health Experiment – Vision Test
Ocular Health (OH) – Tonometry Test (Operator)
Ocular Health (OH) – Tonometry Test
Orlan and БСС Telemetry Check. Orlan comm check and medical parameter test
Ocular Health (OH) – Tonometry Test (Operator)
Ocular Health (OH) – Vision Questionnaire
Ocular Health (OH) – Tonometry Test
Ocular Health (OH) – Stow Tonometry Hardware
Comm reconfig into initial after Orlan Comm. Check
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops. / r/g 9516
HTV Hardware Command Panel (HCP) Checkout
CARDOX – Reference Material Overview
Laptop inlet power swap in Columbus  (MPCC Laptop)
USND2 – Activation of Ultrasound Hardware and Camcorder
Laptop inlet power swap in Columbus (PWS1 Laptop
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
CARDOX – Preparation Steps and Hardware Setup
METERON – Hardware Setup
Photography of БКДО on MRM2 through window 13 after Soyuz 717 Docking / r/g 8748
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHS) Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter Changeout
Glisser-M Hardware Setup (GoPRO setting adjustments and battery charging).  / r/g 9499
Installation on Orlan Shoot Video During EVA-41 / r/g 9464
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
24-hour ECG Monitoring (termination) / r/g 9495
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Glisser-M Installation on Orlan for EVA-41 Video Ops / r/g 9464
24-hour BP Monitoring (start) r/g 9518
METERON – Laptop Activation and Configuration
CARDOX – Scanning
METERON – Laptop Configuration
CARDOX –  Scan (Operator)
CARDOX – Battery Installation
CARDOX – Measurements
CONTROL. Switching Indicator-ISS P/L measuring modes / r/g 9514
Glisser-M Hardware Setup (GoPRO setting adjustments and battery charging) Installation on Orlan Shoot Video During EVA-41. / r/g 9499, 9464
Filling EDV-RP  No.1189, No.1158
Life Support System (СОЖ)  r/g 9372
EMU Checkout
CARDOX – Session for FE-6
Replacement of Light Units in two СД1-7 light fixtures in DC1 / r/g 9519
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops. / r/g 9517
USND2- Hardware Deactivation and Closeout Ops
CheCS OBT
EMU checkout
Installation of ТКГ 428 (DC1) Docking Mechanism / r/g 9521
Reorganizing NOD1 Stowage in Preparation for the Galley Rack Arriving on HTV-5.
HTV Hardware Command Panel (HCP) Checkout
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
IMS Delta File Prep
EMU checkout
OTKLIK. Hardware Check / r/g 8408
БМП Ф2 cartridge regeneration (end)

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HTV PROX Checkout
EMU 3011 RTS support
Ocular Health ops

 
