08-04-2010August 04, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/04/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Upon wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   Also at wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson, FE-4 Wheelock & FE-6 Walker completed another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   CDR Skvortsov took the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, spending an hour on the TVIS treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.  MO-3 was performed by Kornienko & Yurchikhin yesterday.     [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmember rests for 5 min., then works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h for 2 min, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h for 1 min, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace to 3.5 km/h].   After terminating overnight charging of the KPT-2 Piren battery, Mikhail & Alexander ran another 2.5hr-session with the Russian KPT-2 BAR payload, taking background environmental parameters in the FGB, inspecting microconditions of surface areas with identified signs of microflora growth on the structural elements (behind panels 215, 422, 313).  The crewmembers used the new Piren-B Pyro-endoscope instrument and Iva-6A Thermal Hygrometer (to identify potential condensation areas), with the RSE1 laptop.  The measurements are required to forecast the rate of local shell micro-destruction and to develop measures to extend station life.  Afterwards, the crew cleaned up and closed out.       [Piren-B, a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, is part of the methods & means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Besides Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]   Tracy Caldwell-Dyson & Doug Wheelock broke out and set up the US PHS (Periodic Health Status) equipment for the standard pre-EVA fitness exam, conducting the assessment before breakfast by assisting each other in turn as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).     [The assessment used the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data were then logged on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) and the hardware stowed.  On the MEC laptop, the PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software.]   Continuing her support of POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center/Huntsville) in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) on the SAME (Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment) payload, Shannon activated the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) and started up the next (ninth) run of the SAME (Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment).    [After a ~4hr run, FE-6 performed the scheduled shutdown of the MSG and experiment.]   In the MRM2 Poisk module, FE-5 Yurchikhin activated the Russian Glavboks-S (Glovebox S) for another session with the bioscience experiment ASEPTIC (BTKh-39), first sterilizing the box, then collecting surface and air samples from the Glavboks for stowage in the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic refrigerator at +37 degC, followed by sterilizing the equipment and again taking samples.   In the MRM1 Rassvet module, FE-5 installed cabling to connect the module’s ABP wireless access point (WAP) to provide wireless & wired crew access to network data resources through SSCs (Station Support Computers).    [Intermodular network communication tests to check out the new connections will be conducted later after operation without the BRI Smart Router procedure is developed.]    Alex Skvortsov’s activities today included –  Conducting the periodic      checkout & performance verification of IP-1      airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways  [inspected IP-1s are in the      passageways PrK      (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO      (SM Working Compartment), PrK–Progress, DC1–Progress, PkhO (SM Transfer      Compartment) –      RO, PkhO–DC1,      PkhO–FGB      PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1], Completing the periodic      transfer of condensate water to an RS (Russian Segment) EDV container for the      periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for      electrolysis into oxygen & (waste) hydrogen, filling the designated KOV (condensate      water) EDV      container from a CWC (Contingency Water Container).  When filled, the      EDV was      connected to the BPK      transfer pump for processing through the BKO      water purification (multifiltration) unit;  [the 40-minute procedure is      specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting      into the Elektron’s      BZh      Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron      shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by      centrifugation) into another EDV.       BKO      contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved      mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450      liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper      electrolysis in the Elektron      O2 generator], Doing the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance,      updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage      locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three      databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur), and Completing the routine daily servicing of      the SOZh system      (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM  [regular      daily SOZh      maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet      facilities, replacement of the KTO      & KBO      solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine      containers].    FE-2 completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes (current cue card: 24-0007F).   In Soyuz TMA-19/23S, Yurchikhin remedied an earlier oversight by installing as missing grounding strap from spares on the BVN air heater fan after temporarily deactivating the BVN and its TsV3 ventilation fan.    Later, FE-5 performed the periodic module hatch seal inspection, today at the Node-1 Starboard, US A/L (Airlock) & Node-3 Deck.   Fyodor also prepared for a major IFM (Inflight Maintenance) in the SM (Service Module), viz., removing old SMOK condensate lines of the SOTR Thermal Control System and replacing them with new spares (last time done: September 2009).    [Fyodor had ~1.5 hrs to gather and prepare new pipelines, connectors, T-joints and all necessary tooling.]   Mikhail Kornienko transferred no-longer needed hardware and other excessed cargo items for stowage on Progress M-06M/38P for disposal, working from an uplinked preliminary list of 127 items.    [38P undocking is scheduled on 9/7.]   Alexander Skvortsov continued the relocation of stowage items from “unauthorized” FGB locations to alternate sites.   After conducting a teleconference with EVA specialists (at ~10:35am EDT), Caldwell-Dyson & Wheelock, the two spacewalkers, worked in the A/L to prepare its EL (Equipment Lock) compartment for the Pump Module R&R excursions on 8/6 & 8/9.   FE-6 Walker started another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.    [This was the 15th session with the new GC/DMS unit (#1004), after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]   Misha had ~35 min. for shooting additional newsreel footage using the SONY HVR-Z7 #2 high-definition camcorder as part of the ongoing effort to create a photo & video imagery database on the flight of ISS-23/24 (“Flight Chronicles”), focusing on payload scenes.     [Footage subjects generally include life on the station, personal hygiene, food intake, playing with water, enjoying weightlessness, exercise, moving about, station interior, Earth surface, space clothing, cosmonaut at work, station cleaning, etc.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]   FE-2 & FE-4 had their standard pre-EVA PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Wheels at ~12:05pm, Tracy at ~1:05pm EDT.   The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]    For her exercise session on the T2, Shannon donned the Glenn treadmill harness with installed transducer instrumentation, then activated the harness for the T2 SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).     [Afterwards, FE-6 downloaded the harness data (including achieved “body weight”) and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).]   Loop A PM Update: Yesterday, a second test of the Pump Module was performed by the ground. The intent was to close the RPC (Remote Power Controller) that powers the PM and send a “bump start” command to the PM (the “bump start” commands the pump on for 10 seconds).  The RPC was expected to trip when the command was sent; however, it tripped before that, immediately as it was being closed (powered on).  The implications of this test result are under discussion.   MT & SSRMS EVA Preparation:   The MT (Mobile Transporter) was moved on its rails to WS-2 (Worksite 2) yesterday for supporting the EVAs.  Manual mode had to be used for the MT translation UMA (Umbilical Mechanism Assembly) mating operations due to the current power limitations.  No issues were encountered in manual mode.  Also in preparation for the EVAs, the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) was walked off from MBS PDGF 3 (Mobile Base System Power & Data Grapple Fixture 3) to PDGF 1.    CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Aral Sea, Kazakhstan (looking right for general images of water levels in the Aral Sea), Baku, Azerbaijan (looking right for this capital city which is relatively straightforward to locate on the large peninsula that juts into the Caspian Sea.  Oil-related piers and structures in the Caspian Sea are another visual cue), Sofia, Bulgaria (near-nadir pass.  Looking just right of track for a major agricultural valley [light tones] surrounded by large areas of forested mountains.  Sofia has the typical gray appearance of urban places), Edwards Plateau Land-use, Kendall County (looking right of track after passing over Fredericksburg and before San Antonio.  Lead-in visual cues uptrack are: (i) the long and notably meandering course of the Guadalupe River—the site lies almost on the Guadalupe River.  Other cues are (ii) the straight line of urban development associated with Interstate I-10 [gray urban tones], and (iii) a bright outcrop of limestone on the Edwards Plateau close to track.  Seen from this orbit, the site lies on the river between the outcrop and Highway I-10).   