
IMAX Camera Change-out and Cleaning: Lindgren swapped the IMAX C500 Digital Cinema camera body with an on-orbit spare, delivered on SpaceX-6.  He then cleaned debris from the 1DC Digital Single-Lens Reflex (DSLR) camera sensor. Both cameras were reassembled to operational configuration for resumption of imagery collection. The ISS provides an unparalleled perspective of how both natural and human forces shape planet Earth. IMAX Documentary Film (IMAX) aims to produce a three dimensional movie called A Perfect Planet, which uses ISS-based video and images to illustrate these impacts for audiences of all ages. IMAX also showcases NASA’s exploration efforts and highlights the ISS as a platform for scientific research and a stepping stone to deep space exploration.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations:  Today’s HRP operations included the continuation of Flight Day-7 (FD7) Salivary Marker for Yui (blood and saliva collections) and FD7 Microbiome for Lindgren (saliva collections).  Both Yui and Lindgren also have their FD13 Cognition sessions.  For cognition, the crew powered on the Human Research Facility (HRF) laptop, launched the Cognition application, and completed the Cognition test which includes pre-test questions and an array of cognitive tests with performance feedback.


The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
Salivary Markers samples will be used to measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays. This research study will help identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system.
Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.

 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 Return To Service (RTS): The crew performed loop scrubs of EMUs 3005 and 3011 and collected cooling loop water samples. A series of checkout activities for EMU 3011 to verify performance of the new Fan/Pump/Separator (FPS) that was installed last week was also completed. Initial startup of the new FPS was nominal with no issues. The crew also completed visual water leakage inspections, a structural gas leakage test at the maximum operating suit pressure, and a long-duration leak check. EMU 3011 Return to Service activities are scheduled to continue tomorrow.
 
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-5 Preparations: Yui assembled HTV Hardware Comm and Panel (HCP) in the Japanese Experiment Module Pressurized Module (JPM). He also routed HCP power/data cables from the JPM to the Cupola and set HCP in the vicinity of Cupola Remote Work Station (RWS).
 
Today’s Planned Activities   
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

SLEEP Questionnaire
Inspection of СМ-У, РУ2, РУ4, РУ5 connector on МНР-НС separator pump in [АСУ] behind panel 139 and line 5182-03 from Pretreat and Water Dispenser (ДКиВ) to [МНР] in its transparent section
HRF – Sample Collection and Stowage
HRF – Equipment stowage after sample collection
HRF Urine Sample Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Blood Draw
Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
HRF Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
Install battery packs on Orlan No.4 and No.6 БРТА
EMU Checkout,  Part 1
Orlan suit 4 Height Sizing
Orlan suit 6 Height Sizing
Urine Transfer from EDV-U to Progress 425 (AO) Rodnik Water Tank 2
Initiating EMU Cooling Loop Scrub, Part 1
HRF – Blood Sample Collection Closeout Ops
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Blood Collection Hardware Stowage
Condensate  transfer  from condensate tank to CVC (start)
HRF – Equipment stowage after sample collection
WRS Water Sample Analysis
Study of cardiac bioelectric activity at rest.
Psychological Evaluation Program (WinSCAT)
Saliva samples collection
Condensate  transfer  from condensate tank to CVC (end)
EMU Checkout Part 2
Orlan 4 and БСС (Orlan Interface Unit) Leak Checks and Valve Tests
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Hardware Command Panel (HCP) checkout procedures review
HTV Hardware Command Panel (HCP) and HCP Power/Data Cables Setup
HAM radio session from Columbus
EMU Cooling Loop Post Scrub Water Sample
Orlan 4 Backup Bladder Leak Check
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (start)
IMAX C500 Camera body swap
EMU Cooling Loop Maintenance.
Auxiliary Laptop Anti-Virus Update
JPM PROX – Rack Power and HCP Switch ON
24-hour ECG Holter Monitoring (start)
DC1 БК-3М Oxygen Tank Pressure Check
ПхО БК-3М Oxygen Tank Pressure Check
Orlan 6, БСС (Orlan Interface Unit) leak check and valve tests
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
IMAX – Camera Sensor Cleaning
Orlan 6 Backup Bladder Leak Check
EMU Checkout Part 3
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
EVA from DC1 procedure review
TOCA Data Recording
WRS – Recycle tank fill
JEDI  Message on Tropical Cyclon Review
JEM –   SLT laptop Reboot
Profile of Mood States (POMS)  – Questionnaire Completion
CONSTANTA-2. Cassette Removal from TBU-V and Setup on Panel 418 for 1-hour Warmup
Progress 425 (Aft) Transfers and IMS Ops
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
EMU – Long Dryout
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
CONSTANTA-2. Prep and Execution 3.
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Download data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (end) and start archiving.
EMU cooling loop scrub – Deconfiguration
EMU Checkout Part 4
EMU – Conductivity Test
Exercise data downlink
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
WRS
Weekly conference with the Program Management
COGN – Experiment Ops and Filling Questionnaire
БМП Ф1 Absorption Cartridge Regeneration (end)
Preparing for Antivirus scan on Auxiliary Computer Laptops

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

EMU 3011 RTS support
HTV PROX checkout

 
