08-04-2009August 04, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/04/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Before breakfast, FE-5 De Winne began Part 1 (of 5) of the periodic acoustic measurement protocol by deploying crew-worn acoustic dosimeters, to be carried by all crewmembers for 24 hours (with a microphone on the shirt collar).  (Last time done: 6/22-6/23).    [Tonight, after about 15 hours of measurements, dosimeter data will be downloaded and the hardware power-cycled for another data take starting tonight after 8.5-hr. sleep.  At that point, the crew will deploy the dosimeters statically in the station for the duration of the day, record measurements tomorrow noon and stow the instruments.  Acoustic data must be taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.]   FE-1 Barratt & De Winne set up the laptop-based ROBoT simulator program and used it for SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) proficiency training, with an instructor participating from the ground.  Afterwards, they debriefed and tore down the equipment.  The video recorded during the session was downlinked.    [The training addressed the berthing of the MPLM (Multi-Purpose Logistics Module) on the upcoming 17A flight to the Node-2 nadir berthing port.  Main topics of the training were unberthing MPLM, installing MPLM nominal, installing MPLM off-nominal, releasing MPLM, and Single Joint Maneuver.]   FE-2 Tim Kopra performed the periodic WPA (Water Processor Assembly) sample analysis in the TOCA, after first priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.  After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged for calldown.   [The current procedure is a work-around for TOCA’s failed catalyst.]   FE-4 Thirsk collected the regular samples from the WRS PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) for subsequent inflight analysis.    [Collected were, from PWD Ambient, a Small Waste Water Bag (50 mL), a Post-flight Analysis Bag (750 mL), a TOCA Analysis Bag (200 mL) and a Micro Sample In-Flight Analysis Bag (125 mL).  From the hot water outlet of the PWD, Bob collected a Small Waste Water Bag (50 mL) and a Post-flight Analysis Bag (500 mL).]    Afterwards, the FE-4 also collected the Week 20 samples in the SM (Service Module) from the SRV-K Hot, SRV-K Warm and SVO-ZV outlets for return on Mission 17A.   Bob performed the subsequent inflight analysis with the WMK MCD (Water Microbiology Kit/Microbial Capture Devices) for microbial traces, and the CDB (Coliform Detection Bag) for inflight coliform indications (Magenta for Positive, Yellow for Negative).  The activity must be conducted within 6 hrs after water collection from the PWD line.    [As usual, the flush water was reclaimed by evaporation, by releasing it into a towel which was then allowed to dry in the cabin atmosphere.]   In the US A/L (Airlock), Tim started the regeneration process on two METOX (Metal Oxide) CO2 absorption canisters from the last EVAs.    [Installed in the oven for “bakeout” were canisters # 0007 & 0011.]    CDR Padalka underwent his third periodic (generally monthly) health test with the cardiological experiment PZEh MO-1 (“Study of the Bioelectric Activity of the Heart at Rest”) on the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation System), with Roman Romanenko assisting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Later, FE-5 De Winne also took the test, with Padalka acting as CMO.    [Equipment used were VPG/Temporal Pulsogram and ECG/Electrocardiogram Data Output Devices (USI).  During the 30-min. test, the CDR tagged up with ground specialists on an RGS (Russian Groundsite) pass at ~9:30am via VHF for data downlink from the VPG and Gamma-1M ECG for about 5-6 minutes.]   FE-4 Thirsk downloaded and saved the ECG (Electrocardiograph) data recorded for the last 24 hrs from his session with the JAXA biomedical experiment BIORHYTHM and its body-worn digital Walk Holter ECG (Electrocardiograph).   In the RS (Russian Segment), work began on the SKV1 air conditioner which has been nonfunctional for a long time.  Padalka & Romanenko installed the MOK condensate evacuation line in the SBK condensate collector, then prepared the SKV1 for the installation of a new BTA heat exchanger assembly.   Roman completed the periodic transfer of US condensate water from a CWC (Contingency Water Container, #108) to the RS for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, filling the designated KOV EDV container.  Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.]   On the A31p Thinkpad laptops at the Cupola RWS (Robotic Workstation) and in the A/L, Tim Kopra swapped HDDs (hard disk drives) by installing PCS (Portable Computer System) R12 hard drives in the CUP RWS and A/L PCS and stowing PCS R11 HDDs that were removed.    [Laptops were not powered on.]   In preparation for similar swaps tomorrow on the SM, Lab RWS, COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) PCS, Kopra pre-staged R12 HDDs next to the involved laptops.   Frank De Winne replaced the urine receptacle and insert filter in the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) with new units.   [The power assembly was cleaned with the vacuum cleaner, and some dust and small particles were removed.  Current usage rate counter is at 899.]    Gennady Padalka started a second run of the SSTV (Slow Scan TV) equipment of the MAI-75 experiment as part of OBR-3 (Obrazovanie-3, Education 3) ops, essentially a ham radio set-up with Kenwood VS-N1 (Visual Communicator) gear for downlinking photographic images to ground stations, including one at MAI (Moscow Aviation Institute).  Later in the day, the session was terminated and the equipment closed out.    [The payload is named after the renowned MAI whose reputation is based on the large number of famous aviators and rocket scientists that received their academic education here.  Among the alumni are Academicians and Corresponding Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences.  Over 100 General and Chief Designers earned their degree at MAI, with famous rocket scientists like Makeyev, Mishin, Nadiradze and Yangel.  MAI also fostered 20 Pilot-Cosmonauts, almost 100 famous test pilots, Heroes of the Soviet Union and Russia.  The amateur radio (ham) equipment aboard the ISS for downlinking SSTV imagery is an MAI product.]   Padalka did the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   Romanenko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Tim Kopra had another hour to himself for general orientation (station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.   Padalka & Romanenko again spent several hours on cargo transfers from the Progress 34P to the ISS, logging moves in the IMS (Inventory Management System).    CDR, FE-4 & FE-3 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Gennady at ~11:40am, Bob at ~12:10pm, Roman at ~3:50pm EDT.   At ~10:20am EDT, Mike Barratt and Bob Thirsk participated a PAO TV event with the CSA Space Educator Conference, John H. Chapman Space Centre, CSA HQ, Longueuil, Quebec, Canada.   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).     Later, Frank transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  New Software Load (On-Orbit X2-R8, PCS R12 & MSS R6.2).    Today, the Backup and Standby CCS (Command & Control System) computers were successfully loaded with CCS R8.  The Cupola and A/L PCS (Airlock Portable Computer System) hard drives were swapped out, upgrading to the R12 version (see above). Tomorrow, the Backup CCS will be transitioned to prime, enabling the CCS R8 load and the final CCS computer will be loaded with CCS R8.  All activities associated with the transition continue to proceed nominally.   