
Payloads
Droplet Formation Study (DFS):  The crew performed the setup and initiation of recording for additional runs of the DFS investigation.  Data will be archived by an alternate method which will actually result in a quicker delivery time to the experiment team.  Droplet Formation Studies in Microgravity (Droplet Formation Study, or more simply DFS) evaluates water droplet formation and water flow of Delta Faucet’s H2Okinetic shower head technology.  To conserve water, flow rates in shower devices have been reduced, but this lower flow rate also reduces the effectiveness of these devices and often causes consumers to take longer showers, undermining the goal of using less water. Gravity’s full effects on formation of water droplet size are unknown, and research in microgravity could help improve the technology, creating better performance and improved user experience while conserving water and energy.
JEM Payload Laptop Terminal (PLT3/PLT4) Swap: The crew performed the necessary steps to swap the PLT3 (payload laptop terminal) and PLT4 to support upcoming ELF (Electrostatic Levitation Furnace) and Space Studio Kibo science.  ELF is currently hosting NASA’s Round Robin investigation which seeks a better understanding of how to measure liquid metal properties.  Space Studio KIBO is a broadcasting studio that is constructed and operated in the Japanese Experiment Module that can support livestream activities, interactive entertainment, and communication from space.
Radi-N2 Retrieval and Handover: The crew retrieved eight neutron bubble detectors and pouches from the MSRR (Materials Science Research Rack) rack front deployed location and handed them over to the Russian crew for processing.  The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Systems
Environmental Health System (EHS) Coliform Water Sample Analysis: Today the crew completed post processing analysis of the coliform detection bags. The water samples were acquired on GMT 218 and allowed to incubate to check for the presence of Coliform bacteria. Following the incubation period, the crew visually analyzed the coliform detection bags and recorded the results. Visual confirmation must be performed within 40-48 hours of the initial sample collection.
Completed Task List Activities:

Max CEVIS Consumables Kit Reorganization
JEM Bag 14 Audit
EVA Safety Tether Cable Inspection

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


RGA 2 Shutdown after RGA Characterization
CCS Monthly File D/L
PCS Reboot and PCS Log File Downlink
PLUTO H/W Consolidate Part 2 (on-going)

