
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: Kelly and Kornienko continued their week of sleep logging.  Within fifteen minutes of wakeup, the crew answered questions from the SleepLog application on the Station Support Computer (SSC). Kornienko completed his Flight Day 132 Fine Motor Skills.  Kelly completed his first of three Journals sessions. Yui, with Kelly as Crew Medical Officer (CMO), performed his FD14 Sprint Ultrasound.

The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity, and    collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness, to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
In the Fine Motor Skills experiment crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
Yui configured video, Ultrasound 2 machine, and donned the calf and thigh reference guides.  He then performed thigh and calf scans with guidance from the Sprint ground team.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.

 
Plant Circumnutation and Its dependence on the Gravity Response (Plant Rotation): Yui removed Plant Rotation Sample 3 from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Incubator Unit 1-Gravity (1G) centrifuge. During this experiment run, rice plants underwent microgravity rotation first, then a 1G rotation.  Many species of climbing plants grow upward in a spiraling shape, a process known as circumnutation. Plant organs, such as stems, leaves, and roots also grow in a spiraling, helical shape. This spiraling process can take many forms, including very tight loops and broad curves. The Plant Rotation experiment verifies the hypothesis that this type of plant growth requires gravity.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove & Replace (R&R)Tool Stow: Lindgren stowed tools and hardware that were used during last week’s EMU 3011 FPS R&R. He organized the tools so they are ready for future R&R activities.
 
Node 1 (N1) Galley Rack Prep: Reorganization of N1 stowage in preparation for the Galley Rack arrival on HTV-5 continues. Today the crew trashed obsolete items and co-located crew provisions pantry items.
 
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Rack Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) Inlet Flow Measurement: This morning Lindgren used the Velocicalc to measure the air flow rate into the OGS Rack AAA Inlet.  The purpose of this measurement was to ensure that sufficient airflow exists in the rack to allow deferral of the AAA inlet muffler filter block and flow straightener cleaning to allow higher priority maintenance tasks to be performed in the coming weeks.  Based on the Velocicalc data the air flow rate is lower than expected, ground teams are currently discussing the data.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HRF – Sample Collection and Stowage
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
TROPICYC – Configuration Verification
Fine Motor Skills – Experiment ops
OGA Ops
EMU Tool Stowage following FPS R&R
XF305 – Camcorder Setup
MSPR LAPTOP – Hardware Checkout
ПхО Config for dry run / r/g 9538
BLB – Preparing Gas Bottles
Pressurized Orlan Suit Translation Training in ПхО
Pressurized Orlan Suit Translation Training in ПхО –  Assistance r/g 9527
HRF – Equipment stowage after sample collection
IMF IVA r/g 9534
PFE Video Setup
Configuring ПхО to Initial State post-Training / r/g 9538
HAM radio session from Columbus
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
On-orbit hearing assessment using EARQ
DC1 EV1 hatch pusher status check / r/g 9544
ECLSS Recycle Tank Remove and Replace
ECLSS Recycle Tank Remove and Replace (Handover)
Periodic Fitness Evaluation – Nom Ops (subject)
BRI Log Dump from RSS1
DAN. Experiment Execution Support / r/g 9543
DAN. Experiment Ops. / r/g 9543
Periodic Fitness Evaluation – Nom Ops (assistance)
SALMARK – Survey Completion
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Installing Additional Portable Repress Tank (БНП) No.3 in DC1 / r/g 9542
JRNL – Journal Entry
Stowage of Equipment Used for PFE Video Shoot
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
HABIT – Experiment Ops
Study of cardiovascular system under graded physical load on VELO (assistance)
Study of cardiovascular system under graded physical load on VELO
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
TROPICYC – Closeout Ops
USND2 – Activation of Ultrasound Hardware and Camcorder
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
PAO Event
Plant Rotation (PRT) – Hardware Removal
Installation of US EMU lights, TV cameras, and REBA power supply units on Orlan 4 and 6 / r/g 9529, 9530
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
PRT – Closeout Ops
SPRINT – Set up and measurement
SPRINT – Operator
Installation of US EMU lights, TV cameras, and REBA units on Orlan 4 and 6 – Operator / r/g 9529, 9530
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops. / r/g 9539
CONSTANTA-2.  r/g 9528
PILOT-T. Photography of the Experiment Ops / r/g 9540
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
EXPOSE-R. Copy and Downlink Data / r/g 9546
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
CONSTANTA-2. Prep and Execution 4. / r/g 9528
Node 1 Stowage Reconfiguration
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
RGN – Start Water Transfer to EDV
Removal of depress hose for nominal operations
RGN – End Water Transfer to EDV
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Food Frequency Questionnaire
USND2 – Hardware Deactivation and Closeout Ops
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
HRF – Hardware Setup
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops / r/g 9526
HRF – Hardware Setup
Crew conference with Astronaut Office
Flight Director / ISS Crew Tagup
SPHERES – Stowage of batteries

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

SPRINT Ultrasound ops
42S external camera survey

 
