
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): CAL science module 3B was installed at its temporary location and powered to maintain the health of the unit. Installation of this science module into CAL is planned for later this year. CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew performed the steps necessary to remove the processed experiment samples and installed the next set of samples to be processed. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by container-less processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR).
Lumina: Lumina was rebooted, and data was transferred to a Station Support Computer (SSC) laptop for subsequent downlink. Active Dosimeter (Lumina) is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in realtime, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The crew performed the second part of the gas supply exchange to prepare for upcoming Growth of Ternary Compound Semiconductor-C4 (GTCS-C4) science processing. GTCS grows semiconductor crystals based on zinc selenide (ZnSe) compounds in microgravity. ZnSe-based crystals have potential applications for high-power lasers operating in infrared wavelengths. The investigation compares structural quality of crystals grown on Earth and in microgravity to establish how gravity-driven fluid flows contribute to formation of various types of crystalline defects.
StemCellEx-H Pathfinder: To prepare for science activities later in the week, science samples were retrieved from their cold stowage and placed in a Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL) to warm up. Hematopoietic Stem Cell Expansion in Space: Pathfinder Investigation (StemCellEX-H Pathfinder) tests methods for producing human hematopoietic stem cells in space. Hematopoietic stem cells give rise to blood and immune cells and have potential as treatments for patients with blood diseases and cancers. Producing them in space could lead to the ability to produce greater numbers of stem cells with superior attributes for clinical use than is currently possible on the ground.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA): The SUBSA furnace facility was installed into the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). SUBSA will be used to support the Multi-physical Properties of Microgravity-synthesized Graphene Aerogels (SUBSA-ugGA) experiment in the near future. Examination of the SUSBSA-ugGA seeks to create a graphene aerogel on the ISS. Microgravity is expected to alleviate effects of Earth’s gravity, such as agglomeration, sedimentation, and thermal convection, and enable production of a superior, uniform material structure. This research could lay the groundwork for the engineering of bulk quantities of graphene aerogel with exceptional physical properties for applications in power storage, environmental protection, and chemical sensing.
Tangolab-4: The crew removed experiment cube QUST_NXT02 and installed experiment cube QUST_NNL06 into the Tangolab-4 facility. TangoLab lockers are a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development (R&D) and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS. The units typically host experiments inside CubeLabs, which are mounted to cards.
Vascular Aging: The crew reviewed the procedures and set up the appropriate hardware to support the upcoming Vascular Aging Experiment session. Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems:
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the Cygnus NG-19 cargo vehicle. These operations included offloading crew provisions and hardware from NG-19. NG-19 is planned to remain at the space station until the end of October before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. 
Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) ЕДВ-Y Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew swapped the WHC Offload ЕДВ with the WHC Internal ЕДВ. This is a direct swap to allow the ground team to process the uses from when WHC was configured to internal last week. WHC is a Russian toilet system that has been modified to fit within a standard USOS sized rack.
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Extended Maintenance: The crew performed a battery change out in all the CSA-CP units. Additionally, the crew zero calibrated all the units before deactivating them. CSA-CPs are used during off-nominal and contingency scenarios to measure Carbon Monoxide (CO), Hydrogen Cyanide (HCN), Hydrogen Chloride (HCI), and O2 using electrochemical sensors.
Russian Food Transfer: The crew gathered food Cargo Transfer Bags (CTBs) to transfer from the US side to the Russian side. This is done as part of the barter framework between NASA and Roscosmos. 
Crew Handover Conference: The current ISS crew participated in a conference with the upcoming expedition crew to pass on the lessons learned. The purpose is to begin the handover process prior to the arrival on orbit through Videocons and Data Exchanges between the current crew and the upcoming crew.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Node 3 CCAA TCCV Commanding to Support the HX Inspection
SUBSA Hardware Setup Support
CCS SMCC Data Dump
PRO MSRR Activation Commanding
Orlan and БСС Telemetry Check
Potable System Configuration for ЕДВ Fills
Reboot MSE NFS Nodes for Crew-7 Mission
Update ACL for MSE SMB Filesystem

