08-02-2010August 02, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/02/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Underway: Week 9 of Increment 24  Upon wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  As part of the crew’s regular morning inspection tour, CDR Skvortsov conducted the routine checkup of circuit breakers & fuses in the DC1 Docking Compartment.     [The monthly checkup in the “Pirs” module looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 & BPP-36.]  FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson, FE-4 Wheelock & FE-6 Walker continued the current week-long session of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 2nd for Doug & Shannon, 6th for Tracy, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Yurchikhin had 2h50m reserved for doing his second onboard session with the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment after setting up the workplace and equipment, assisted by Mikhail Kornienko as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Later, the Pilot-M & Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled & stowed away, data files were downloaded, and Fyodor reported to TsUP on his run.    [MBI-15 requires the Multipurpose Hardware Bench as a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO & RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) with software (v. 2.0) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.]  Time again for Skvortsov & Yurchikhin for recharging the Motorola Iridium-9505A satellite phones located in Soyuz TMA-18/22S (at MRM2) & Soyuz TMA-19/23S (docked at MRM1), a monthly routine job and Fyodor’s 2nd, Sasha’s 4th.      [After retrieving the phones from their location in the spacecraft Descent Modules (BO), the crewmembers initiated the recharge of the lithium-ion batteries, monitoring the process every 10-15 minutes as it took place.  Upon completion, the phones were returned inside their SSSP Iridium kits and stowed back in the BO’s ODF (operational data files) container.  The satphone accompanies returning ISS crews on Soyuz reentry & landing for contingency communications with SAR (Search-and-Rescue) personnel after touchdown (e.g., after an “undershoot” ballistic reentry, as happened during the 15S return).  The Russian-developed procedure for the monthly recharging has been approved jointly by safety officials.  During the procedure, the phone is left in its fire-protective fluoroplastic bag with open flap.  The Iridium 9505A satphone uses the Iridium constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to relay the landed Soyuz capsule's GPS (Global Positioning System) coordinates to helicopter-borne recovery crews.  The older Iridium-9505 phones were first put on board Soyuz in August 2003.  The newer 9505A phone, currently in use, delivers 30 hours of standby time and three hours of talk, up from 20 and two hours, respectively, on the older units.]  After terminating overnight charging of the KPT-2 Piren battery, Mikhail & Alexander ran another 2.5hr-session with the Russian KPT-2 BAR payload, taking background environmental parameters in the FGB, inspecting microconditions of surface areas with identified signs of microflora growth on the structural elements (behind panels 427, 227, 431).  The crewmembers used the new Piren-B Pyro-endoscope instrument and Iva-6A Thermal Hygrometer (to identify potential condensation areas), with the RSE1 laptop.  The measurements are required to forecast the rate of local shell micro-destruction and to develop measures to extend station life.  Afterwards, the crew cleaned up and closed out.       [Piren-B, a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, is part of the methods & means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Besides Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]  In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson relocated the SLT (System Laptop Terminal), booted up and changed its settings (to eliminate an unnecessary popup message).  Afterwards, Caldwell-Dyson assisted FE-4 Wheelock in Node-3 in the temporary removal of the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) Kabin to make room for the subsequent routine replacement of the WRS RFTA (Water Recovery System Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) by Wheels.   The old unit was stowed for return and the Tox-2 caps & plugs of the spare for re-use.  FE-4 later re-installed the Kabin with the help of FE-6 Walker.    [RFTAs collect the substances cleaned from the pretreated urine to turn it into water.]  Doug later retrieved fresh HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters from the JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment), which were then installed by Alex in Node-2, replacing the old units.  The latter were later stowed in JLP by Shannon Walker.  Continuing her support of POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center/Huntsville) in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) on the SAME (Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment) payload, Shannon activated the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) and then changed out the sample carousel, the alcohol wick and the thermal precipitator, followed by opening vent & GN2 (gaseous nitrogen) valves for ground-controlled operation.   After a ~4hr run, FE-6 performed the scheduled shutdown of the experiment.  Alex Skvortsov conducted checkout tests of the VShTV Wide-Angle Vertical Sighting Device on the television screen showing Earth terrain.  Screen shots using the NIKON D2X digital camera with f17-55 mm lens were then downlinked to the ground via OCA.     [Purpose of the annual routine VShTV maintenance tests is to verify proper operation and optical quality of the device after being exposed to spaceflight conditions over a long period.]  Afterwards, Alex downlinked the HD video taken on 7/30 with the Sony HVR-Z7 camcorder of his, Fyodor’s & Mikhail’s checkout and test of the new Russian IPK-1M oxygen breathing masks.  Activities completed by Tracy Caldwell-Dyson included –  Reconfiguring the WPA (Water Process Assembly) in Node-3 by connecting the WWT (Waste Water Tank) to collect condensate water,Closing the port forward IMV (Intermodular Ventilation) valve in Node-2 to be in a better position for emergency response, andTerminating the “bake-out” regeneration of METOX (Metal Oxide) CO2 absorber canisters in the US A/L (Airlock) and stowing them for the upcoming spacewalk activities.    Activities worked by FE-5 Yurchikhin included –  Locating & installing two handles with fasteners on the MRM1 (SSA) hatch cover,Checking out the electrical configuration (connector pin by pin) of the Vozdukh vacuum pump (SOA) using the Fluke 105B Scopemeter  [this unit was removed from Vozdukh on 6/23 after a Vozdukh failure and R&R.  Today’s tests were to determine why the unit wasn’t operating properly].Setting up the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic refrigerator on SM panel 234 for the bio-technical experiment Aseptic (activation of KRIOGEM at +37 degC to be done tomorrow), andPreparing the equipment for a session with the periodic Russian MedOps test "Hematokrit" (MO-10), to be conducted tomorrow by Alex, Mikhail & Fyodor.  Starting a new round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, FE-3 Kornienko first worked in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok) to replace the filters in the PS1 & PS2 dust collectors and clean the screen guards of the TsV1 fan.  Moving to the Docking Compartment (DC1), Misha then cleaned the V3 fan grille and air duct.  Following a teleconference with ISS Program Management at ~10:00am, Caldwell-Dyson, Wheelock & Walker joined up for a 3h25m review of uplinked instructions & procedures for the Tracy’s & Doug’s two new spacewalks, intended to remove & replace the failed ETCS (External Thermal Control System) loop A Pump Module.  The EVAs will take the place of the originally scheduled single EVA-15 on 8/5, one on 8/6 (Friday), the second on 8/9 (Monday).     [As reported yesterday, at 7:48pm EDT on 7/31 (Saturday), RPC 1 (Remote Power Controller 1) in RPCM (RPC Module) S11A_D tripped, powering off the S1 ETCS loop A PM (Pump Module).  Necessary thermal loop A powerdowns were immediately executed, and the ISS crew installed two jumpers to maintain maximum available power redundancy.  A ground-commanded attempt to repower the Loop A PM saw a repeat of the trip when the pump motor was commanded to spin-up.  Activities related to the earlier planned EVA for installing a PDGF (Power & Data Grapple Fixture) on the FGB have been put on hold.  R&R of the PM will require 2 EVAs: the first for setup, removal & temporary stowage of the failed PM, retrieval & partially installation (structural/heater power) of the spare PM, the second to complete the spare PM installation (activation), stow failed PM, and clean up.  With one half of the station’s cooling capability gone, the ISS is currently largely single-string, i.e., zero fault-tolerant, due to thermal constraints.  With the Lab Contingency Truss Jumper installed by the crew on Sunday, the following DDCUs (DC-to-DC Converter Units) and their associated loads had to be unpowered: DDCU S04B, DDCU S14B, DDCU N2D1B, DDCU N2D4B, DDCU N2S1B, and DDCU N2S4A.  A PM R&R is the only available option to recover ETCS Loop A.  Tracy & Doug will perform the spacewalks, and Shannon would operate the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Maneuvering System), but plans for the EVA without SSRMS are also being made, just in case.]  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked.  