
Payloads
Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP2): The crew retrieved and packaged ten Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM2) samples for return to the ground.  The ExHAM samples were recently brought inside ISS through the JEM airlock and were exposed the external ISS environment to test various technologies.  Some the experiment samples include carbon composite, radiator material, and a dosimeter.  Taking advantage of Kibo’s unique function of having both an airlock and a robotic arm on the ISS, the ExHAM facility enables space experiments to be performed in the exposed space environment, by attachment to the Japanese Experiment Module Kibo’s Exposed Facility (EF).
Systems 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) In Flight Maintenance (IFM): As part of regularly scheduled preventative maintenance, the crew performed a manual WHC flush tank fill.  By using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as the burp, they depressurized the flush water tank and water valve block to protect the dose pump. This pump is critical as it injects the pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Water Sampling: Today the crew obtained water samples from the OGS Recirculation Loop for return-to-ground analysis. The Water Recovery System (WRS) reclaims wastewater from both the crew’s urine and humidity condensate from USOS modules. This water, once processed, is used to feed the OGS system and needs to be maintained within certain parameters to ensure optimum system performance. The water samples taken from the OGS Recirculation Loop will be returned to the ground for microbial growth analysis and to ensure parameters are within limits on-orbit.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: Crew performed an analysis of the water processing assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
 Completed Task List Activities:

Restow items at NODE2 Forward
Valve Box Remote Controller (VB-RC) Fastener Repair
IFM Node 3 Moisture Filter and IMV Screen R&R

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Ground Support for OGS Sampling
RAIU 3 Troubleshooting
RGA Data Staleness Event Characterization per Chit 18955

