
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #60: Today, ISS CDR Sergey Prokopyev (EV1) and FE-2 Dmitry Petelin (EV2) performed RS EVA #60 with Andrey Fedyaev supporting as the Intravehicular (IV) operator. The trio performed a multitude of tasks concurrently with European Robotic Arm (ERA) Mission 8 in order to relocate the Portable Work Station (ПРМ) from MRM1 to MLM. The YAKOR foot restraint on the Portable Work Station (ПРМ) was ingressed by the crew and EV1 was flown via the ERA. The MRM2 hatch opened at 9:44 AM CDT and the following tasks were completed:

Install MMOD shields on MRM1
Remove Portable Work Station (ПРМ) launch restraints
Relocate the Portable Work Station (ПРМ) from MRM1 to MLM Passive Attachment Device 1 (УФП-1) using ERA
Fly EV1 crew in the Portable Work Station (ПРМ) with ERA
Jettison bundle of disposal items from MRM2

The Total Phased Elapsed Time (PET) of this EVA was 6 hours and 35 minutes.
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device – Kinematics (ARED-K): Connectivity troubleshooting activities continued for the ARED-K experiment hardware. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the ISS. It attempts to assess a major unknown with internal bone and muscle forces developed during exercise in microgravity. In addition, squat and deadlift resistance exercise loads used in flight have to be increased to account for the loss of body weight in microgravity and it is unknown how the level of body weight replacement (BWR) affects bone and muscle loads.
Cosmic Multishield: The crew reported the LED lights on the Cosmic Multishield hardware are not in the expected configuration. The ground team will discuss any potential forward actions. Multifunctional Shielding Polymer Demo (Cosmic Multishield) assesses the radiation shielding abilities of a hydrogen-rich polymer. The optimized polymer may be used in construction of spacecraft and satellites to help protect crew members or for shielding electronic components and devices.
Standard Measures: Using the data collection tool on an available Station Support Computer (SSC), the crew answered their presleep questionnaires. Spaceflight Standard Measures (Standard Measures) collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Vascular Aging: Blood pressure measurements and ultrasound scans were performed in support of the multi-day Vascular Aging experiment. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Charcoal Filter Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew performed R&Rs of expended charcoal filters in Node 1 and the Airlock. Additionally, while in the area, the crew cleaned the smoke detectors and the Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Air Return Screens of the Airlock Duct Selector Panel. The installation of the charcoal filter is to assist in scrubbing the volatile siloxanes from the air before they reach the Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Heat Exchanger (HX).
Russian EDVs Inspection: The crew inspected a standalone EDV for any signs of a leak, air intrusion, or off-nominal Pre-Treat Urine (PTU) quality. A bad quality pretreated urine EDV can vary in coloration, ranging from dark urine color to gray/green. Fluid can also have varying amounts of solids/particulates present, indicating bio-growth or excessive precipitates, as well as larger amounts of gas bubbles present. A good quality pretreated urine EDV is black or very deep green in color. It is translucent and does not have any turbidity or significant amounts of particulates in the fluid.
JPM Cabin Smoke Detector b Cleaning: The crew cleaned the JPM Cabin Smoke Detector b by using the Intravehicular Activity (IVA) Connector Cleaner Tool Kit and associated IVA N2 Cartridge (N2 Bottle) to supply bursts of N2 to remove particles. This is important as the smoke detectors sample the atmosphere for particles that might correspond to smoke from a fire.
JEM PS-120 Junction Box Ground Noise Voltage Measurement: The crew measured voltage for one of the outputs of the JEM PS-120 Junction Box (S/N 001) located at JPM1F7 by setting up 2 channel USB Oscilloscopes and other related cables. This troubleshooting was performed to find the possible root cause of bad data packets continuously being received from exposed payloads. 
Completed Task List Activities:

WHC KTO Replace [GMT 220]

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

ECHO Analogue Video Signal Downlink
ARED Kinematics Acquisition Unit Partial Setup Support
Crew Dragon System Checkout
Vascular Aging Resting Ultrasound Scan Support
RS MPEG2 Video

