
Payloads:
Plant Habitat-03B: The crew gained access to the Plant Habitat facility, obtained several groups of leaf samples, and prepared them for return to the ground. The Arabidopsis thaliana plants began growing in mid-July and will continue to develop throughout the 91-day growth cycle. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food and air and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
StemCellEx-H Pathfinder: Seeding was performed on the three BioCells, which marks day 1 of the experiment. Hematopoietic Stem Cell Expansion in Space: Pathfinder Investigation (StemCellEX-H Pathfinder) tests methods for producing human hematopoietic stem cells in space. Hematopoietic stem cells give rise to blood and immune cells, and have potential as treatments for patients with blood diseases and cancers. Producing them in space could lead to the ability to produce greater numbers of stem cells with superior attributes for clinical use than is currently possible on the ground.
Vascular Aging: Sample collection and processing were performed in support of the multi-day Vascular Aging experiment session. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Lab Charcoal Filter Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew performed R&Rs of six expended Lab Charcoal Filters, one Standoff at a time, completing replacement of all the Port side filters first, then moving to the Starboard filters. The installation of the charcoal filter is to assist in scrubbing the volatile siloxanes from the air before they reach the Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Head Exchanger (HX). 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Resistance Measurements – Phase 2: The crew took resistance measurements of the Exercise Instrumentation Box (EIB), ARED Cables, and the ARED Platform while loaded and unloaded for ongoing EIB troubleshooting. The EIB is intended to replace the legacy ARED Instrumentation Box (AIB), which is currently installed. The ARED uses adjustable resistance piston-driven vacuum cylinders along with a flywheel system to simulate free-weight exercises in normal gravity.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Sample Operations: The crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water. The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
IFM Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank R&R: The crew performed a Pre-Treat Tank R&R as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Node 3 CCAA TCCV Commanding to Support the HX Inspection
Cygnus Reboost Table Loads
StemCellEx-H Pathfinder BioCell Seeding Support
Plant Habitat-03B Leaf Harvest Support
THC CCAA Fan Speed Change
PRO LSG Facility Deactivation Commanding

