
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): Following last week’s repair of the compression fittings in the Moderate Temperature (MTL) coolant line for CAL, a series of visual leak checks have followed and all been good (no leaks reported). The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Manufacturing Device (ManD): The crew replaced the Platform, Extruder, and Feedstock Canister in the ManD facility to prepare for upcoming 3D prints. ManD enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the ManD printer that is installed into an EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) locker location. ManD is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers, including engineered plastics.
Materials International Space Station Experiment-15 (MISSE-15): The crew removed MISSE-15 Science Carriers (MCSs) 10, 14, 15, and 16 from the JEM airlock slide table and packed them for return to the ground. The MISSE facility provides a unique platform that is available for the private sector, as well as other government entities, to utilize applied materials testing or technical demonstrations. The primary Materials ISS Experiment Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) platform provides the ability to test materials, coatings, and components or other larger experiments in the harsh environment of space, which is virtually impossible to do collectively on Earth. Testing in low-Earth orbit (LEO) allows the integrated testing of how materials react to exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UV), atomic oxygen (AO), ionizing radiation, ultrahigh vacuum (UHV), charged particles, thermal cycles, electromagnetic radiation, and micro-meteoroids in the LEO environment.
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3009/3013 Loop Scrub and Iodination: The crew performed EMU water loops scrubs, then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity on units 3009 and 3013. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical or biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Piping Remove and Replace (R&R):  The crew replaced the piping between the pump separator and the dose pump. The piping is replaced every six months as part of preventive maintenance to ensure continued performance and preclude a functional failure. 
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew completed a PEP inspection to determine if PEPs are in a good operational condition. The crew inspected various emergency provisions such as the Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBAs), and Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs) at multiple locations throughout the space station. The crew spent several minutes on each item and noted any visible damage.    
Hypervisor Cable Deroute and Photo Documentation: Following the Hypervisor 4 & 5 relocate earlier this week, the crew disconnected, derouted and stowed the cables associated with the old Hypervisor locations at the Lab Forward Bulkhead. The crew then photographed the final cable configuration for ground teams to review.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Optical Coherence Tomography 2 (OCT2) Exam: Today, the crew completed OCT eye exams as one of three regularly performed on-board routine tests to monitor crewmembers eye health. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three- dimensional images of tissue. In this case, the objects of interest are the crewmember’s eyes. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in microgravity environment.
Completed Task List Activities:

ESA PAO Message Record

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Battery Charge/Discharge Unit (BCDU) Firmware Load
Cupola and Lab PCS Reboot and Log File Save

