
Payloads
Astrobee/RFID recon:  The crew installed the RFID recon reader into the Astrobee payload bay, powered on the Astrobee free-fliers, and started the experiment run. RFID-Enabled Autonomous Logistics Management-2 (REALM-2) (RFID Recon) uses a radio frequency identification (RFID) reader and antennas attached to a robotic free-flyer named Astrobee to identify RFID-tagged cargo on the International Space Station to determine its presence and location in order to help the crew find items quickly and efficiently. RFID tags are similar to barcodes, except they are electronic, do not require line-of-sight, and are able to respond through wireless communication.
Butterfly IQ Ultrasound:  The crew performed a technology demonstration of the Butterfly USND device on several different body locations. Butterfly IQ Ultrasound demonstrates the effectiveness of a portable ultrasound device used in conjunction with a mobile computing device in the space environment. The investigation examines ease of probe handling, quality of ultrasound images, and effectiveness of just-in-time instructions for autonomous use by the crew. Such commercial off-the-shelf technology could provide important medical capabilities for future exploration missions beyond low-Earth orbit.
InSPACE-4 hardware stow: Following the completion of 5 weeks of operations, the InSPACE-4 hardware was removed from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and stowed. Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4) studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Robo-Pro briefing:  The crew participated in a Kibo Robot Programming Challenge 2 event rehearsal briefing.  The briefing covered details of the upcoming rehearsal including ISS and ground interaction, how the Astrobees will be used in the rehearsal, and placement of the various QR codes and target.  Kibo Robot Programming Challenge (Robo-Pro Challenge), also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the International Space Station (ISS). This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers. This activity is based on Japan-U.S. cooperation through the Japan-US Open platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3).
Systems
External Mobility Unit (EMU) Resize: The crew completed resizing of the Extravehicular Activity (EVA) EMU, 3009 and 3015, in support of the upcoming IROSA Prep 4A EVA on August 25th. Mark Vande Hei and Aki Hoshide will continue to work ongoing EVA preparation tasks.
Emergency Onboard Training (EMER OBT): In coordination with the ground, all crew members participated in the simulated EMER OBT. Two scenarios were conducted to simulate emergency responses of both the onboard crew and the ground. A debrief of events was led to capture lessons learned and areas of improvement for future training exercises.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SSRMS Walkoff (Node2 PDGF)
Dragon Crew-2 Wakeup
EMER OBT
MT Translation

