08-06-2010August 06, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/06/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Upon wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also at wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson & FE-4 Wheelock completed another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Afterwards, Caldwell-Dyson & Wheelock continued preparations for their EVAs.    [Activities included configuring tools needed during the spacewalks such as equipment tethers, wire ties, etc. and making further preparations in the A/L EL (Airlock Equipment Lock), checking on EMU DIDBs (Disposable In-suit Drink Bags) filled from PWD (Potable Water Dispenser), confirming the presence of emergency provisions in the A/L, taking O2 (oxygen) readings with the CSA-O2 units 1041 & 1045 for notifying MCC-Houston and verifying proper function of the vacuum manometer for pressure readings.]  Tracy & Doug also spent ~1h45m on reviewing latest EVA procedures.    [The review included uplinked  PM (Pump Module) supplemental information, PM R&R cuff checklist pages, workaround crib sheets for bolt removal problems and FQD (Fluid Quick Disconnect) malfunction cases, plans for PM tie-down on the S1 truss, P-clamp tie-down, etc.]  A teleconference by Doug, Shannon & Tracy with EVA specialists at MCC-Houston wrapped up the preps at ~1:30pm.  FE-5 Yurchikhin configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his 2nd, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic & physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]  Afterwards, Yurchikhin continued the SOTR Thermal Control System in the SM (Service Module) IFM (Inflight Maintenance), removing old SMOK condensate lines and replacing them with new spares (last time done: September 2009).     [Fyodor had ~4 hrs to complete Part 3, replacing pipelines, T-joints and caps between the NOK1 & NOK2 condensate pumps, and between the KR1 control valve and the SK1 valve assembly.  More to follow.  The R&R involves around two dozen flexible hoses (ZSMOK) and line components.]  CDR Skvortsov continued the relocation of stowage items from “unauthorized” FGB locations to alternate sites, performing a storage bag audit before equipment relocation and updating all relocations in the IMS (Inventory management System).  Skvortsov terminated battery recharge for the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) payload and then set up the experiment at SM window #9 for another sun-glint observation session, using the bracket-mounted spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor), synchronized with a coaxially mounted NIKON D2X camera for taking snapshots, and later downloading the data to laptop RSE1 for subsequent downlink via OCA.     [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere.]  Later, Alex terminated battery recharge for the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with NIKON D2X digital camera photography.  The CDR also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Fyodor Yurchikhin did the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Mikhail Kornienko had another 3 hrs for transferring excessed hardware and trash to the Progress M-06M/38P cargo ship for disposal, based on an uplinked preliminary list of 127 items.    [38P undocking is scheduled on 9/7.]  Afterwards, FE-3 also performed periodic service of the RS (Russian Segment) radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), recording data from 8 radiation detectors in the Bubble-dosimeter reader and stowing the dosimeters.     [Bubble dosimeter detectors are positioned at their exposure locations around the RS.  Measurements were taken today from 8 dosimeters located in the SM starboard crew cabin.  Their measurements (exposure duration, bubble quantity, dose) were recorded in the Reader on PCMCIA memory card and reported to TsUP via log sheet over OCA.  The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls.]  Meanwhile, FE-6 Shannon Walker –  Closed the protective shutters of the windows in the US Lab, Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and Node-3 Cupola,Powered up the Cupola RWS DCP (Robotic Workstation Display & Control Panel) for additional video coverage of her SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) ops tomorrow,Studied uplinked briefing material on NH3 (ammonia) decontamination procedures and hardware,Reviewed Robotics procedures and DOUG (Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) setup for supporting the EVA-15, andConfigured the low pressure O2 tank of the ACS (Atmospheric Control System) to supply O2 to the high pressure oxygen system.  FE-2 & FE-4 had another standard pre-EVA PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Wheels at ~10:00am, Tracy at ~10:15am EDT.  Misha Kornienko set up the video equipment to capture his workout session on the ARED advanced resistive exerciser for subsequent biomechanical evaluation of the crewmember and hardware status at MCC-H.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3,  FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  After completing preparations of A/L EL for tonight’s lockout, Doug Wheelock (EV1) and Tracy Caldwell-Dyson (EV2) will begin their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) in the A/L with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe (~3:55pm-5:00pm) and sleep from 5:30pm-2:00am. .  The CL hatch will then be cracked (i.e., temporarily repressurized to 14.7 psi) for a hygiene break/with mask prebreathe for Tracy & Doug at 2:35am-3:45am.  Shannon will provide suited support in the A/L   Around 3:45am, the hatch will be closed again for EVA preps in 10.2 psi (3:45am – 5:15am), followed by EMU purge (~5:15am – 5:30am) &  prebreathe (~5:30am – 6:20am).  Afterwards, Walker will support CL depressurization until egress at ~6:55am.]  Objectives for EVA-15 will be to –  Demate connections and QDs (quick disconnects) on the old PM (Pump Module)Install PM jumper to bypass PM and connect ATA (Ammonia Tank Assembly) at S1 to Loop-A, Install AGB (Adjustable Grapple Bar), currently on ESP-2 (External Stowage Platform 2), on old PM, Remove old PM from S1 (starboard) truss and stow on POA (Payload ORU Accommodation) on the MT (Mobile Transporter) at WS2 (Worksite 2),Prepare spare PM (on ESP-2) for installation, and Install spare PM on S1 and make electrical & data connections.]  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Baku, Azerbaijan (nadir pass.  Looking on the south coast of the Abseron Peninsula for this capital city), Damascus, Syria  (nadir pass.  Damascus lies at the edge of a major agricultural area), Lusaka, Zambia (looking right after ISS passed the prominent, roughly circular Lukanga Swamp basin. Lusaka is a major gray patch between track and the prominent forests of the Kafue River. Another cue is a group of center-pivot irrigation fields immediately north of the city), Smoke pall, northern USA (Dynamic event.  Looking right beyond the bright white cloud mass for a major smoke plume that has been generated by fires in Canada.  Winds are transporting the smoke southeast.  The oblique view angle from ISS of Lake Superior, with a view direction generally south [towards the sun], both help make smoke plumes more visible in the images. Trying to shoot a margin of the smoke), and Edwards Plateau Land-use, Texas (from this pass just to the south of San Antonio, looking left beyond Interstate Highway I-10 and just uptrack of Canyon Lake on the Guadalupe River).  