
Payloads:
Astrobee: The crew relocated stowage items from JPM Rack Fronts in preparation for the ground to perform remote Astrobee free flyer Ops. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots, which are designed to help scientists, and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station.  The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew-monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Biological Experiment Laboratory (BioLab): The crew cleaned the BioLab Temperature Controlled Unit (TCU) 1 and 2. The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the European Columbus laboratory. The facility is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Cell Science-04: The crew reviewed procedure for upcoming Cell Science-04 operations. The tardigrade (water bear) is the model organism for studying biological survival under the most extreme environmental stress conditions on Earth and in space. The objective of the Using Water Bears to Identify Biological Countermeasures to Stress during Multigenerational (Cell Science-04) investigation is to characterize the molecular biology of short term and multigenerational survival in the space environment by identifying genes that are required for adaptation and survival in high stress environments. The findings from this study can be applied to understanding the stress factors of humans in the space environment, and identification of countermeasures.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) – Fluids and Combustion Facility (FCF):  The crew replaced the Manifold 4 fuel bottle with 1.00 liters of 100% C3H8 (Propane). The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Plant Habitat-04: The crew performed the Plant Thinning activity and took photos from the topside and of each of four quadrants of the Science Carrier. So far, the experiment has proceeded as expected based on ground testing, with prolific germination and seedling establishment being achieved in the first few weeks of the experiment. Today is day after planting 30 (DAP 30), and the crew will be thinning the plants to reduce the number of plants per quadrant in the APH science carrier. Microgravity Growth of New Mexico Hatch Green Chile as a Technical Display of Advanced Plant Habitat’s Capabilities (Plant Habitat-04) demonstrates using the Advanced Plant Habitat (APH) by growing peppers in space for the first time.  An excellent source of Vitamin C, peppers are more difficult to cultivate than many possible space crops because they take longer to germinate, grow, and develop fruit. The investigation includes microbial analysis to improve understanding of plant-microbe interactions in space and assessment of flavor and texture, which vary based on the growth environment and care such as amount of watering.
Robo-Pro 2 Challenge:  A crewmember made preparations and rehearsal for the Kibo Robot Programming Challenge 2 event. Kibo Robot Programming Challenge (Robo-Pro Challenge), also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the International Space Station (ISS).  This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers.  This activity is based on Japan-U.S. cooperation through the Japan-US Open platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3).
SABL (Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory):  The crew installed the CO2 Incubator Controller into SABL-1. The Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL) supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28vdc and 5vdc power supplies for investigation use.
Systems
EVA (Extravehicular Activity) Airlock Unstow:  The crew-removed hardware not needed for the upcoming EVA and prepared the airlock to support EVA Operations.  This activity was performed in preparation for the upcoming IROSA Prep 4A EVA on 25-August. Mark Vande Hei and Aki Hoshide will continue to work ongoing EVA preparation tasks.
NG-16 Preparations:  In preparation for Cygnus arrival, currently planned for 12-August, the crew completed an On-board Training (OBT) offset grapple, paying particular attention to managing the volumetric constraints in the Cupola, as well as lighting conditions, when maneuvering the Mobile Servicing System (MSS)
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SSRMS Maneuver to Offset Grapple
SSRMS Maneuver to ACBM position after Crew Offset Grapple activity.

