08-12-2009August 12, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/12/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Upon wakeup, FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Kopra, FE-4 Thirsk & FE-5 DeWinne continued their new session of the SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight) experiment, logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   After wake-up, FE-3 Romanenko undertook his third session of the Russian behavioral assessment MBI-20 TIPOLOGIA, setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.    [The CDR assisted him in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes, applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit and taking photographs.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]   FE-1 Barratt completed Day 5 of his daily diet monitoring for the SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) experiment entailing a series of diet intake loggings, body mass measurements and blood & urine samplings in two session blocks.  Today, Mike conducted measurements and sampling of body mass, blood (with PCBA/Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer), and urine.  Blood samples were centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and stowed in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) -- within 15 minutes after centrifugation and no longer than 45 minutes after being drawn.  Urine samples were also placed in the MELFI.    [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Mike will have to eat special diet (Session 1: High salt diet which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level and Session 2: Low salt diet).  Solo Diet starts with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are being logged on sheets stowed in the PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer) Consumable Kit in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  SOLO, an ESA/German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device).  Blood samples are taken with the PCBA.  Background:  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 & MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]   After wakeup, CDR Padalka powered on the Russian Vozdukh CO2 removal unit to Mode 5, now controlled with software Vers. 08.03.   Afterwards, Padalka terminated his eighth experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]   FE-3 Romanenko continued his major SOTR Thermal Control System outfitting IFM (Inflight Maintenance) in the SM (Service Module), removing old SMOK condensate lines and replacing them with new spares (last time done: September 2008).    [Today Roman completed Part 2, replacing condensate line components between the NOK1 condensate pump and the NOK2 condensate pump.  More to follow tomorrow.  The R&R involves about 20 flexible hoses (SMOK) and line components.]   The CDR performed a checkout on the KTsP1,2 (CPC1,2) Laptop RS2 using the new Vers. 08.03 software.   With the US OGS (Oxygen Generator System) currently down, Gennady in the course of the day ignited two more end-of-life SFOG (Solid Fuel Oxygen Generator) “candles” in the RS (Russian Segment).   In the Soyuz 18S spacecraft, Padalka performed another health check of the KhSA Cooler/Dehumidifier Assembly’s V1 fan in the DM (Descent Module) by toggling it and the V2 fan on/off and checking air flow.    [On 6/25, a planned replacement of the apparently faulty fan in the Soyuz 18S DM with a new unit proved to be not necessary after Padalka configured a jumper bypass which successfully recovered functionality of the air conditioner fan.  Today’s activity was to check up on the fix.]    Following up on his & Tim Kopra’s VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) session on 8/8 with the LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System) Phase 1 surface sampling experiment, Mike Barratt took documentary photographs of the LOCAD incubation media slides.   The FE-1 also conducted the periodic status & screen check on the payload CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus), located in the ER-2 (EXPRESS Rack 2).   Barratt relocated the GC/DMS (Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer) from the CHeCS (Crew Health Care System) Rack to outside the TeSS (Temporary Sleep Station) in preparation for the CHeCS Rack Relocation.  Afterwards, Mike installed a new USB driver in the GC/DMS.   Romanenko completed the periodic transfer of US condensate water from CWCs (Collapsible Water Containers, #1074, #1008) to the RS for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, filling the designated KOV EDV container.  Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.]   Romanenko conducted a 30-min. session of new ocean observations program, DZZ-13 “Seiner”, to obtain data on color field patterns and current cloud cover conditions over the Atlantics between the coasts of Newfoundland and Western Sahara.    [The experiment uses visual observation, videography (HDV camcorder, PAL mode) and selective photography (NIKON D2X with AF-S Zoom-Nikkor 80-200 mm lens) of color-contrast images and large discontinuities in cloud fields along the flight path, controlled from the RSK-1 laptop.  Roman’s photography had to be accompanied by a continuous non-stop video recording of underlying terrain using the HDV camera securely fixed above SM Window #8 precisely in nadir using the LIV adapter.]   In preparation for tomorrow’s run of the EXPERT experiment, Romanenko started charging the Kelvin-Video and TTM-2 (Thermoanemometer-Thermometer 2) batteries.    [Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  The payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss anemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]   In the Soyuz TMA-14/18S crew return vehicle, Roman, Bob & Frank conducted the standard 30-min. fit check of the Kazbek couches, the contoured shock absorbing seats in the Descent Module (SA) of the spacecraft docked at the DC1 Docking Compartment.   [For the fit check, crew members remove their cabin suits and don Sokol KV-2 suit and comm caps, get into in their seats and assess the degree of comfort & uniform body support provided by the seat liner.  Using a ruler, they then measure the gap between the top of the head and the top edge of the structure facing the head crown.  The results are reported to TsUP-Moscow.  Kazbek-UM couches are designed to withstand g-loads during launch and orbital insertion as well as during reentry and brake-rocket-assisted landing.  Each seat has two positions: cocked (armed) and noncocked. In cocked position, they are raised to allow the shock absorbers to function during touchdown.  The fit check assures that the crewmembers, whose bodies gain in length during longer-term stay in zero-G, will still be adequately protected by the seat liners for their touchdown in Kazakhstan, either emergency or regular return.]   FE-4 Thirsk conducted Day 2 of his third two-day ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) session, accompanied by CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on Return from the ISS).    [Today Bob doffed (took off) the CDP (Cardiopres)as well as changed out the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi CF Card and battery for ICV.   Holter Monitor and Actiwatch recording is continuing for another 24 hours.  Download of the Cardiopres data is planned for tomorrow, at which time a fully charged Makita power tool battery will be required.]   FE-5 DeWinne set up the videocam for S-band comm with the ground, then worked on the FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility), preparing for troubleshooting a communications problem with the avionics package of the CIR MDCA (Combustion Integrated Rack Multi-user Drop Combustion Apparatus) by first opening the FCF doors and the CIR front end cap, then installing the MDCA Boot Selector inside the CIR combustion chamber.   [Front end cap and FCF doors were then closed again.]   In order to check on potential damage in the KURS-P Antenna #1 (AKR-VKA) feeder circuits in the SM, CDR Padalka unstowed tools and conducted the circuit checks using the FSH3 spectrum analyzer.    Gennady also conducted his eighth data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (Interactions) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.    [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]    The FE-4 performed the periodic inspection and cleaning of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) in the US Lab.   Bob Thirsk continued replenishing the Icepacs in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) by inserting two more +4C Icepac belts into MELFI.   [The Icepacs were originally removed as part of 2J/A packing.  Nine additional activities spaced at least 24 hours apart are being planned over the next two weeks, each time inserting two Icepac belts (to prevent temperature increase inside the MELFI.]   Bob & Frank continued the SSRMS MSS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System / Mobile Service System) software Vers. 6.1 checkout.     [Due to yesterday’s SSRMS anomalies associated with Hot Backup testing, today’s SSRMS operations were modified to delete activation of Hot Backup.  The joint position discrepancies seen yesterday did not recur.]   After the two-day proficiency training sessions (OBT/Onboard Training) by Thirsk & DeWinne for Exp 20 on the JAXA HTV (H2 Transfer Vehicle) mission profile, the HTV Rendezvous crew procedures, and the HCP (Hardware Command Panel) for controlling the HTV, the FE-5 today tagged up with Nicole Stott, the 17A FE-2 coming up with STS-128, to discuss HTV arrival details.    [The last event, on 8/14, is a ROBoT “mini-Sim” with a subset of the FCT (Flight Control Team), focusing on the integrated objectives and timeline from ~300m through capture.  ROBoT uses DOUG (Dynamic Operations Ubiquitous Graphics) software, a hand controller and two laptops (one for graphics, one for the simulation) for on-orbit training of MSS (Mobile Service System) and SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) operations.]   Frank conducted the regular weekly maintenance on the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization), primarily inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices), SLD cables and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time & date values.    [Particular attention was requested on inspecting, marking & recording any visible SLD damages.]   Roman completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Gennady did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   At ~9:00am EDT, the FE-1 had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and u-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).   At ~1:30pm, FE-1, FE-2 & FE-4 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video.   At ~2:00pm EDT, Barratt, Kopra, Thirsk & DeWinne held a teleconference with ground specialists to discuss the latest 17A cargo transfer list.   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).    Later, Tim Kopra transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).   Before sleep time, Romanenko set up the Russian MBI-12 SONOKARD payload and start his fifth experiment session, using a sports shirt from the SONOKARD kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.    Also before sleep time, CDR Padalka unstowed and set up the equipment for the periodic Russian PZE-MO-10 "Hematokrit" testing which is scheduled for the post-sleep use by him, Kopra & Thirsk tomorrow.   [MO-10 measures the hematocrit (red blood cell mass) value of the blood (it is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell mass {normal range: 30-45%} tends to go down over time).]   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  