
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2): The crew collected saliva and blood samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation. MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1-year period. After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time. 
Marrow: A crewmember collected air samples for CSA’s Marrow investigation today.  Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow. 
Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS) Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) 13:  The crew set up the PCG 13 investigation hardware and prepared the sample tubes to fill the PCG Card wells. CASIS PCG 13 seeks to enhance the way crystals are grown in a microgravity environment by allowing crew members to observe imperfections within a crystal and make real-time adjustments to follow-up experiments, rather than returning a sample to Earth and relaunching to try again. This dramatically reduces the time it takes to conduct an experiment aboard the space station and creates a timely, realistic and more cost-effective solution for prospective researchers. 
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS): The crew set up the sample image, mixed all ten samples, and took photos of the sample.  BCAT-CS focuses on the study of forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles.  Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration
MarconISSta: The crew set up the MarconISSta in the Columbus module and connected it to the Amateur Radio for the International Space Station (ARISS) antennas. ESA’s MarconISSta investigation is a radio spectrum analyzer which monitors parts of the radio frequency spectrum in VHF, UHF, L, and S band in order to analyze current use and availability of bands for satellite communication. 
Barrios Protein Crystal Growth (PCG):  Today the crew retrieved a Barrios PCG microplate from a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), mixed the solutions in a crystallization plate and inserted the samples into the Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL).  Barrios PCG focuses on the successful transfer and mixing of different solutions into commercial off-the-shelf multiwell plates. Video of the growth of the protein crystals in the multiwell plates will be downlinked for evaluation. 
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Filter Remove and Replace (R&R) with Fan Filter Cleaning: This morning the crew R&R the PWD’s Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) water filter. While they had access to this ORU, they also cleaned the exhaust fans outlets on the rear of the PWD. Both the fan cleaning and filter R&R are regularly scheduled preventative maintenance and are required to keep the PWD system functioning nominally.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Audit: Today the crew performed an audit to verify that the Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBAs), and Pre-Breathe Masks are all free of damage functioning nominally. The crew also conducted Quick Don Mask (QDM) Harness Maintenance and recorded the hardware serial numbers, or barcodes, and locations of each item. This audit is a regularly scheduled task and is required every 365 days.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Tonight robotic ground controllers will maneuver the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) as required to stow the Robotic Offset Tool (ROST) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator. Both ROST and SPDM were used during last week’s HTV-7 Battery Remove and Replace (R&R) Get-Ahead tasks. 
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event: Space Center Houston, the Johnson Space Center, and Microsoft have partnered together to provide a YouthSpark Live activity for students from the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Houston. Today, Ricky Arnold participated in the event and answered various questions from the approximately 150 students in attendance. YouthSpark is an immersive event designed to empower young people interested in positively impacting the world through the pursuit of careers in Science Technology Engineering Arts and Mathematics (STEM). 
Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Collection
Microbial Tracking-2 Body Sample Collection
Microbial Tracking-2 Sample MELFI Retrieval Insert
HRF Generic Urine Collection
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection
HRF Generic Sample Historical Documentary Photography
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Configuration
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Spin Conclude
Glisser-M Video Hardware Battery Charge (start)
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
Progress 438 [AO] Stowage Ops with IMS Support.
NanoRacks Platform-2 Setup of Downlinked Video of CPU Monitor
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Microbial Tracking-2 Saliva Stow
Atomization Syringe Removal
Extravehicular Mobility Unite (EMU) Radio Frequency (RF) Camera Assembly (ERCA) Inspect
БНП tank [Portable Repress Tank] installation in [РО] [Working Compartment]
JLP Stowage Removal Part 2
Inspection of SM Hatch Sealing Mechanism (МГК) of Passive Docking Assembly – Axial (АСП-О) and Progress 438 Active Docking Assembly [АСА]
Installation of additional portable repress tank (БНП) in DC1
Active Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter (ATED) Card Downlink
HRF Generic Urine Collection Stow
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Photo TV EVA Go Pro Battery Charging
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sedimentation On Board Training
PCG-13 MWA PREP
Progress 438 Activation, Air Duct Removal
Countermeasures System Treadmill 2 Accelerometer Wanted
СОЖ maintenance
Item unstow for the MarconISSta installation
PCG-13 Card Kit Creation
Removal of ССВП quick-release screw clamps Video recording of [AO] – Progress 438 interface
MarconISSta setup in Columbus
SM Aft – Progress 438 Hatch Closure
Terminating battery charge and preparation of Glisser-M hardware for EVA, Setup of GoPRO 360 Camcorders
MELFI1 Icebrick Insertion
ПрК-СУ and ТКГ-СУ (Progress 438) Hatch Leak Check
Lighting Effects Visual Performance Tests Light Setting Subject [Deferred]
Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Setup – Subject
PCG-13 Lyophilized Powder Re-hydration
CSA Generic Frozen Blood Collection Setup
SM-Progress Interface Video Downlink Before Hatch Closure
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Initiate
Preparation of EVA equipment, photography, staging in DC1. Photo Downlink
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sedimentation Sample Mixing and Image Setup
PCG-13 Card Fill
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Filter Remove and Replace (R&R) with Fan Filter Cleaning
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Audit
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sedimentation Camera Activities
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
DC1 EV Hatch1 pushrod status check
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Install light and video camera ORLAN suits
RSR Trash Loading
Checking БД-2 treadmill carriage position
Insertion of PCG13 Hardware into MELFI
Surface Tension Containment Experiment Hardware Locate
NanoRacks Maintenance Work Area Preparation
NanoRacks Barrios Protein Crystal Growth Pipette Mixing at MWA
Tropical Cyclone Untended Operations
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sedimentation Camera Activities
EPO crew message recording
Tropical Cyclone Hardware Closeout
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
NanoRacks Barrios PCG Sample Insertion into SABL

Completed Task List Activities:

RED Helium Camera Deploy [Completed GMT 224]
KTO Replace [Completed GMT 224]

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


SSRMS Ops: Stow ROST and SPDM

