
ISS Reboost: Today, the ISS performed a reboost using the Aft Progress 81P R&D thrusters. This reboost was the first of three reboosts to set up proper conditions for 68S 2-orbit rendezvous on September 21 and 67S landing on September 29. The burn duration was 2 minutes 45 seconds with a Delta-V of 0.3 m/s.
Payloads:
Fluid Science Laboratory/Soft Matter Dynamics (FSL/SMD): The crew exchanged four Particle STAbilised Emulsions and Foams (PASTA) Sample Cell Units and a single reference sample with five Foam Coarsening #2 Samples in the SMD Experiment Container. On Earth, the mixture of gas and liquid that makes up a foam quickly starts to change. Gravity pulls the liquid between the bubbles downwards, and the small bubbles shrink while the larger ones tend to grow at the expense of others. Due to drainage, coarsening (or enlarging) and rupture of the bubbles, a foam starts to collapse back to a liquid state. In space, foams are more stable because there is no drainage in weightlessness. This allows scientists to study the slower phenomena of a bubble becoming bigger and bursting, which on Earth are masked by the drainage that destabilizes the foam.
International Commercial Experiment (ICE) Cubes: Experiment Cubes #0, #3, #8, #9 were removed from the ICE Cubes Facility and prepared for return to the ground. During these activities, Experiment Cube #10 was relocated to slot J05 in the facility. The ICE Cubes facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration or educational objectives. During flight, users are able to have near real-time telemetry and telecommanding capabilities with the Experiment Cube from any location with an internet connection. The ICE Cubes service provides fast and direct access to the ISS for any country, institute, or entity.
Immunosenescence: The crew set up the appropriate microscope and performed observations of the cells growing in each BioCell. Microgravity as a Model for Immunological Senescence and its Impact on Tissue Stem Cells and Regeneration (Immunosenescence) studies the effects of microgravity on cells involved in tissue regeneration and whether recovery occurs post-flight. Results could provide insight into whether effects of the biological aging process can be reversed.
ISS Ham Radio: The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with Kopernik Observatory & Science Center (KOSC), Vestal, N.Y., USA. Opened in 1974, Kopernik has offered hundreds of thousands of students of all ages the opportunity to learn about their world and the universe surrounding them. Kopernik’s resources include three permanent telescopes, a heliostat, weather station, three classrooms, computer lab, portable planetarium, and amateur radio station. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have approximately 9 minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-22 (J-SSOD-22): The J-SSOD hardware preparation for the Friday deploy was concluded with the removal of the launch lock cover, installation of the Multi-Layer Insulation (MLI), retraction of the slide table, etc. J-SSOD provides a novel and safe small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD, including satellite cases with small satellites, is installed onto the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) by crew members, it is passed through the JEM Airlock for retrieval, positioning, and deployment by the JEMRMS.
Ring Sheared Drop (RSD): The processed sample syringe was removed, and a new sample syringe was installed. The RSD investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid. Amyloids – fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues – are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Systems:
SpX-25 Thermal protection System (TPS) Survey: Yesterday and today, Robotics Ground Controllers completed the SpX-25 TPS survey using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). TPS inspections are performed on returning vehicles prior to undock from the ISS to ensure the vehicle is in a good configuration for re-entry.
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 54 Preparations: The crew continued preparation activities for the upcoming RS EVA 54, beginning with termination of charging and removal of Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Li-Ion batteries. US EVA tools were also transferred from the USOS to the RS. The Russian EVA is planned for Wednesday, August 17.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
On-orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA): Today the crew performed an auditory test using the OOHA headset and KUDUwave software. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

ACS MCS Configuration for Reboost
SSOD Checkout In JPM
JEMRMS Deactivation/Activation After Cable Reconfiguration
JEM Airlock Depressurization and Vent
MSS Survey of SPX-25
Crew Dragon System Checkout
JEM MAXI File Uplink

