08-10-2010August 10, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/10/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Upon wake-up, CDR Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also at wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson & FE-4 Wheelock completed another session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  CDR Skvortsov conducted the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated at ~5:05pm EDT before sleep time.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday by Alex.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done:  7/20-7/20).]  Before breakfast & first exercise, Skvortsov, Kornienko & Yurchikhin took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.  Afterwards, Kornienko closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware.     [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]  Caldwell-Dyson & Wheelock completed final preparations for tomorrow’s EVA-16.    [Activities included configuring tools needed during the spacewalk such as equipment tethers, wire ties, etc., and making further preparations in the A/L EL (Airlock Equipment Lock), checking on PGTs (Pistol Grip Tools, #1001 w/battery 1009 for EV1, PGT #1006 w/battery 1008 for EV2, backup PGT #1004 w/battery 1006 in bag), filling DIDBs (Disposable In-suit Drink Bags) from PWD (Potable Water Dispenser), verifying installation of HL (Helmet Light) batteries (1029, 1030, 1031 &1035), etc.]  Afterwards, Tracy, Doug & Shannon spent ~3 hrs on reviewing latest EVA procedures.    [The review included revised detailed procedures, a QD (Quick Disconnect) operations briefing package, Robo/SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) instructions, etc.]  A teleconference by Doug, Shannon & Tracy with EVA specialists at MCC-Houston wrapped up preps at ~12:25pm.  In an attempt to restore the failed CO2 (carbon dioxide) sensor in Doug Wheelock’s EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) #3005, the FE-4 set up the sensor to flow O2 (oxygen) through it for an hour to remove the suspected moisture, and then check the sensor's functionality.  The procedure worked, and as of now Wheelock’s CO2 sensor is OK.  Working with Doug, Mikhail Kornienko retrieved three Russian “Pille-MKS” radiation dosimeters, recorded their dosages in the Reader and equipped each of the two EMUs for tomorrow’s spacewalk with a sensor unit (A0306 & A0307).    [A third sensor, A0311, which had been in the Reader, was read in manual mode.]  In the SM (Service Module), FE-5 Yurchikhin worked most of his day (~5 hrs) on the ASN-M Satellite Navigation System, reconfiguring its four navigation electronics modules NPM-1, NPM-2, NPM-3, NPM-4 with new BKS cable network connections, in order to provide more favorable thermal & noise-resistant operating conditions as well as improved ease of ASN-M NPM module & BKS maintenance access behind panel 338 (over the ASU).      [The ASN-M will be needed for the proximity operations of the second ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) for its arrival next year.]   Later, Fyodor continued the extended leak integrity checking of the spare BZh Liquid Unit (#056) for the Elektron O2 generator, repressed on 7/20 with nitrogen (N2) to 1 atm (1 kg/cm2), by conducting the usual pressure check and recharging it with N2 from BPA-1M Nitrogen Purge Unit as required to verify the unit’s hermeticity.    [Objective of the monthly checkout of the spare BZh, which has been in stowage since March 2007, is to check for leakage and good water passage through the feed line inside of the BZh (from ZL1 connector to the buffer tank) and to check the response of the Electronics Unit’s micro switches (signaling “Buffer Tank is Empty” & “Buffer Tank is Full”.  During Elektron operation, the inert gas locked up in the BZh has the purpose to prevent dangerous O2/H2 mixing.  A leaking BZh cannot be used.]  After terminating overnight charging of the KPT-2 Piren battery, Mikhail & Alexander ran another 2.5hr-session with the Russian KPT-2 BAR payload, taking background environmental parameters in the FGB, inspecting microconditions of surface areas with identified signs of microflora growth on the structural elements (behind panels 404, 405, 313 & 206 near the GZhT-3 heat exchanger).  The crewmembers used the new Piren-B Pyro-endoscope instrument and Iva-6A Thermal Hygrometer (to identify potential condensation areas), with the RSE1 laptop.  The measurements are required to forecast the rate of local shell micro-destruction and to develop measures to extend station life.  Afterwards, the crew cleaned up and closed out.       [Piren-B, a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, is part of the methods & means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Besides Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]  Meanwhile, FE-6 Shannon Walker –  Reviewed uplinked briefing material on NH3 (ammonia) decontamination procedures and verified hardware readiness,Configured the Cupola RWS (Robotic Workstation) as backup for her SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) ops on the Lab RWS tomorrow,Swapped the DOUG (Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) cable from the A31p laptop used for EVA-15 to the SSC-8 (Station Support Computer 8), a DOUG-equipped T61p model,Verified that telemetry is properly being received from the Robotics systems for “driving” the DOUG animation during EVA-16,Reviewed the new SSRMS EVA procedures,Powered down the amateur/ham radio equipment in the SM to prevent RF interference with the spacewalkers,Closed the protective shutters of the windows in the US Lab, Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and Node-3 Cupola, andRetrieved the OGS (Oxygen Generation System) secondary power cable and temporarily put it aside in the Lab as a get-ahead for the OGS cable modification task scheduled tomorrow.  FE-3 Kornienko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  The CDR did the daily IMS (Inventory management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Fyodor Yurchikhin & Alex Skvortsov performed the periodic (monthly) functional closure test of the Vozdukh CO2 (carbon dioxide) removal system’s spare AVK emergency vacuum valves, in the spare parts kit.   [The AVKs are crucial because they close the Vozdukh's vacuum access lines in the event of a malfunction in the regular vacuum valves (BVK) or a depressurization in the Vozdukh valve panel (BOA).  Access to vacuum is required to vent CO2 during the regeneration of the absorbent cartridges (PP).]  Mikhail conducted the regular monthly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization).     [This requires inspecting the condition of harnesses, belt slats, corner bracket ropes, IRBAs (Isolation Restorative Bungee Assemblies) and gyroscope wire ropes for any damage or defects, lubricating as required plus recording time & date values, and making sure that the display cable and skirt were properly secured afterwards.]  Before sleeptime tonight, Skvortsov sets up the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and starts his 10th experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  FE-2 & FE-4 had their standard pre-EVA PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Tracy at ~10:25am, Wheels at ~2:25pm, EDT.  CDR, FE-3 & FE-5 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Alex at ~10:10am, Misha at ~1:40pm, Fyodor at ~2:05pm.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).   [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  After completing preparations of A/L EL for tonight’s lockout, Doug Wheelock (EV1) and Tracy Caldwell-Dyson (EV2) will begin their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) in the A/L with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe with oxygen (~3:55pm-5:00pm) and sleep from 5:30pm-2:00am.   [The CL hatch will then be cracked (i.e., temporarily repressurized to 14.7 psi) for a hygiene break/with mask prebreathe for Tracy & Doug at 2:35am-3:45am.  Shannon will provide suited support in the A/L   Around 3:45am, the hatch will be closed again for EVA preps in 10.2 psi (3:45am – 5:15am), followed by EMU purge (~5:15am – 5:30am) &  prebreathe (~5:30am – 6:20am).  Afterwards, Walker will support CL depressurization until egress at ~6:55am.]  Steps for EVA-16 will be –  Retrieve VTE (Vent Tool Extender) – EV1Close M3 QD (Quick Disconnect) – EV1  [if no leak (or “snowflakes”), keep M3 closed & do not do Step 4 (total time saved if M3 is OK: ~2 hrs EVA time).  If large leak reoccurs, open M3 to 90% (with SPD/Spool Positioning Device) and proceed with original steps];Install & Route VTE on S1 truss segment – EV1Close M1/F105 (Male 1/Female 105) QD at S1-to-S0 segment interface – EV1,Close M1/F55 QD at S1 DDCU – EV2Start vent of line & PM (~20 min) – EV2Close M2, close Vent Tool, clean up Vent Tool – EV1/EV2Demate & bag M3 – EV1Break torque on all (4) old PM  bolts – EV1Release old PM electricals and 3 bolts – EV2Retrieve AGB (Adjustable Grapple Bar) from ESP-2 (External Stowage Platform 2) – EV1Attach AGB on failed PM – EV1/EV2Remove failed PM from S1 (starboard) truss and stow on POA (Payload ORU Accommodation) on the MT (Mobile Transporter) at WS2 (Worksite 2) – EV1/EV2 Possible get-aheads:  C/L bag transfer to ESP-2Vent GN2 (gaseous nitrogen)Break torque on bolts of spare PM.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Dead Sea, Israel (looking immediately left.  Imagery showing the water-level status of the Dead Sea was requested), Algiers, Algeria (looking right of track at a bulge on the Algerian coastline where port facilities are visible.  Trying to get the entire city in one frame), North Tibesti Megafans, Libya (overlapping images, looking right of track, were requested.  Images taken at nadir and right from track will include the critical apex zones of the fans.  During the many wetter periods of Saharan history in the last few million years, rivers flowing off the high Tibesti Mts. have created very large fans of sediment, until recently unappreciated in geology, but revealed extensively in the first instance in handheld imagery.  Large fans are now thought to be analogs for various features on Mars.  The Tibesti fans have been seldom imaged), La Paz, Bolivia (the city lies on the major escarpment between the flat high plains of Bolivia and the great canyons that descend from these plains.  The main visual cue on approach is Lake Titicaca, immediately up-track of the city), and Asuncion, Paraguay (looking left.  Main cue is the largest river in the area, the Paraguay.  The city lies on a major bend in the Paraguay River).  