
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #41: Padalka and Kornienko successfully performed a 5 hour, 31 minute EVA and completed the following tasks:

Install two Gap Spanners on Service Module (SM)
Clean Window #2 on SM large diameter
Install Lock Restraints on WAL1-WAL5 antennas on SM
Take photos of “Expose-R” experiment on SM
Retrieve “Obstanovka” experiment P/L on SM
Perform experiment “Test” in three locations on SM small diameter
Take photos of “Elektron” System Fitting on SM [ПхО]
R&R WAL6 Antenna on SM small diameter
Change orientation of [БКДО] P/L on MRM2
Take photos of ISS RS exterior
Jettison the removed WAL6 antenna
During the EVA, Lindgren, Yui and Kononenko had access to all modules forward of the SM/DC1. Kelly was isolated in 42S for 50 minutes and photographed the starboard Solar Array Wing (SAW) mast from the Mini-Research Module (MRM)-2 starboard window.

 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: Yui performed a blood draw and urine collection in support of his Flight Day 15 (FD15) Biochemical Profile and Repository. Yui completed his FD 20 Cognition.  Kornienko performed a post-EVA Reaction Self Test.  Kelly completed his first of three weekly Journal sessions, and Lindgren, with Yui’s assistance, performed his FD15 Body Measures.
 

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
Reaction Self Test aids crewmembers to objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, extravehicular activity (EVA), and residual sedation from sleep medications).
Journals obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures and sustained human performance during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information to help prepare for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
Yui acting as an operator, will assist subject Yui in setting up equipment collecting his first calibration and body pose photographs and the circumference measurements in support of the Body Measures experiment.  Currently, NASA does not have sufficient in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) gathered to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. This study collects anthropometric data (body measurements) using digital still and video imagery and a tape measure to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments (i.e., chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) from astronauts for pre, post, and in-flight conditions.

 
Veggie Hardware Validation Test (Veg-01): Lindgren harvested lettuce grown in the Veggie facility. Lindgren, Yui, and Kelly consumed the harvested lettuce, first plain, then prepared with oil and balsamic vinegar.  The remainder of the leaves were packed and placed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a future flight. The primary goal of the Veg-01 testing is to demonstrate plant growth in the Veggie hardware using lettuce as a test species. Plants will be grown in two different sizes of arcillite, a calcined clay media. This test will help compare root zones of the two media sizes to determine water and root distribution in the different sized-particles to provide recommendations for future Veggie investigations. Shoot samples will also provide information on growth anomalies when compared with ground controls and will provide information on microbial growth and food safety. Photographs will be used to assess plant growth rates and plant health. A data logger will record the environment within the Veggie hardware. Crew questionnaires will provide insight into the appropriateness and thoroughness of the crew procedures for Veggie hardware and plant growth operations.
 
NanoRacks Platform 3: Kelly performed troubleshooting to resolve Platform 3’s communication issues.  He installed a new USB data cable, uploaded software and installed adapter drivers from a USB flash drive to set the IP address.  Video of the troubleshooting was downlinked for specialist review. Preliminary indications are that the troubleshooting resolved the communication issues.  Ground teams are evaluating the data.
 
Circadian Rhythm: Over the weekend, Lindgren completed his 36 hour data take. Today, he completed data transfer from the armband to the European Physiology Module (EPM) laptop. The main objective of the experiment is to get a basic understanding of alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights. This data will provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, but also has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest- and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions.
 
Today’s Planned Activities   
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Biochemical Urine Test (pre-EVA)
HRF. Refrigerated Centrifuge Power On and Blood Sample Insertion
HRF Blood Sample Collection (operator)
HRF Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
DC1 and ПхО config for EVA r/g 9565
HRF – Blood Sample Collection Closeout Ops
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
BODYM – Equipment Setup
CUCU Off Verification
HRF Blood Collection Hardware Stowage
ISS HAM RADIO Power Down
iPad Prep
Body Measures Experiment
Flat Collector Circuit (FCC) Photos Set-Up
Psychological Evaluation Program (WinSCAT)
Orlan Systems Checkout
Body Measures Experiment (Operator)
Preparation of MRM2 and ТК 716 for EVA / r/g 9569
Monthly Inspection of T2 Treadmill System
Removal of Air Duct РО-ПрК Hatch protective ring [Aborted]
Checkout of БСС (Spacesuit Interface Unit) in DC1
Checkout of БСС (Spacesuit Interface Unit) in ПхО
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Armband data transfer to EPM laptop for Circadian Rhythms
HRF Urine Sample Collection
Comm config before EVA, reconfiguring ПСС (C&W) panel
DC1 БК-3М Check
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Body Measures Experiment (Operator)
Orlan, БСС, comm. systems, and medical parameter telemetry check
ISS Onboard System Configuration before EVA (part 1)
Body Measures Experiment
Orlan and БСС (Orlan interface unit) Final Inspection prior to entering Orlan
USOS Window Shutter Close
Donning EVA Gear
Air duct removal from DC1 (skip B3 fan removal)
PRE-EVA airlock operations r/g 9567
A/L Operations for EVA – assistance r/g 9567
Condensate tank transfer to CWC – initiation
WRS Water Sample Analysis
HRF Urine Sample Collection
Condensate tank transfer to CWC – termination
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
EVA-41 Tasks / r/g 9560
Support of window #2 cleaning ops during EVA-41/ r/g 9560
VEG-01 – Hardware Setup
VEG-01 – Plant sample collection and video
IMAX – Video of the Science Ops
RED DRAG – Camera Setup
TOCA Data Recording
VEG-01 – Plant Sample Insertion into MELFI
VEG-01 – Sample cleaning and drying
Armband cleaning and stowage
ARED – Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
RED DRAG – Camera data downlink
NANO – Installation of Ethernet cable
SPHERES – Data Export
Disconnection of condensate tank from WW line
WRM – condensate transfer initiation
SPHERES SLOSH P/L Hard Drive Stowage
JRNL – Journal Entry
WRM – condensate transfer termination
ISS Onboard System Configuration before EVA (part 2)
Connection of WW line to Lab condensate tank and its disconnection from WPA
HRF Urine Sample Collection
MRM2-СУ (SM) Hatch Closure
Backup Airlock Setup. Post-EVA Airlock Ops help r/g 9567
Post-EVA airlock operations r/g  9567
ТК 716 Crew Isolation in MRM2 for EVA-41 / r/g 9569
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Flat Collector Circuit (FCC) Photos through MRM2 window
ТК 716 Crew Isolation in MRM2 for EVA-41 / r/g 9569
Reconfigure comm system for nominal ops r/g 9566
MRM2- СУ (SM) Hatch Opening
OBSTANOVKA. Closeout Ops with ДП-ПМ unit after EVA / r/g 9564
USOS Window Shutter Close
COGN – Experiment Ops and Filling Questionnaire
RS ISS Initial Reconfiguration after EVA-41 r/g 9565
Assemble air ducts in DC1 after EVA
Biochemical Urine Test after EVA
COGN – run experiment and fill in questionnaire
Post-Eva Orlan Suit Maintenance
РО-ПрК Hatch Opening (after opening РО-ПрК PEV via CRL and pressure equalization)
Install protective ring on РО-ПрК hatch and air duct
RS ISS Initial Reconfiguration after EVA-41
ТК 716 Deactivation, MRM2 Post-EVA Reconfiguration for Nominal Ops / r/g 9569
Closing window shutters 6,8,9,12,13,14 / r/g 6965
Self-Reaction Test. Reaction Time Test (evening)

 
Completed Task List Items

JAXA Video Take Part 1
N1 Galley Rack Prep

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

VEG-01 harvest
Body Measures
RS EVA video
Solar Array Feathering for photos

 
