08-17-2010August 17, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/17/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       At wake-up, Alex Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also before breakfast, the CDR began Part 1 of the periodic personal acoustic measurement protocol by deploying crew-worn acoustic dosimeters from the SMK (Sound Measurement Kit), carried by the Soyuz 23S crew, i.e., Caldwell-Dyson, Kornienko & himself, for 24 hours (with a microphone on the shirt collar).     [Tomorrow, in Part 2, Alex will deploy the three dosimeters at selected locations for static measurements, and in Part 3, on Thursday, the dosimeter data will be downloaded and the instruments stowed.  Acoustic data must be taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.]  After wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson began another 4-day session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), her 4th onboard run, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 4 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]  Caldwell-Dyson, Wheelock & Walker also began another week-long session of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 3rd for Doug & Shannon, 7th for Tracy, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  CDR Skvortsov & FE-3 Kornienko undertook their regular monthly session with the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh their CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support).   [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]   Doug Wheelock verified proper closure of the protective window shutters in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Node-3 Cupola, and US Lab, prior to the 6:00am shutdown of CMG1 (Control Moment Gyroscope 1), i.e., its removal from the steering law, and associated thruster firings.     [By powering down two DDCUs (DC-to-DC Converter Units, S01A & LA4A) by ground command, CMG-1, ETCS Loop A and other electrical loads were temporarily shut down to safe them for the removal of the Lab/Truss Contingency Jumper which the crew had installed after the DDCU S01A/Loop A pump failure.]  FE-6 Shannon Walker then disconnected and removed the Lab/Truss Contingency Jumper.    [Afterwards, the ground began to repower DDCU S01A (restarting ETCS Loop A and turning CMG-1 back on), the Node-2 DDCUs, S0 DDCU S04B & S1 DDCU S14B (repowering CMG-4), plus Kibo JPM & COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) core loads.]  At ~12:00pm EDT, Tracy, Wheels & Shannon joined for an EVA Debriefing conference with ground specialists, discussing yesterday’s successful EVA-17 which installed and connected the spare ETCS (External Thermal Control System) Loop ammonia pump.  Afterwards, Wheelock worked in the A/L (Airlock), first removing a PGT (Pistol Grip Tool) battery, #1009, and an HL (Helmet Light) battery, #1035, from the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly) for stowage, and then installing the used EMU batteries #2086 & #2087 in the BSA for the discharge/recharge process.  In the MRM2 Poisk module, FE-5 Yurchikhin terminated the bioscience experiment ASEPTIC (BTKh-39), dismantling, removing & stowing the Russian Glavboks-S (Glovebox S) hardware.  In the SM (Service Module), FE-5 Yurchikhin collected KAV condensate water samples from the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor (water recovery system) upstream of the FGS gas/liquid mixture filter/separator in an empty drink bag, a periodic check on the performance of the FGS, then removed sampler & separator and disposed of flush water as per instructions.  The three Russian crewmember conducted periodic audit/inventories in the RS (Russian Segment), namely -  Alex Skvortsov of IVA (Intravehicular Activity) tools & gear (last time done: 6/25).    [The audit included tools on tool panels 1, 2 & 3, static electricity removal cartridge belt with jumper cable, and the contents of kits for UKR-50 equipment, EVA dummy electrical connectors & thermal liners.],Mikhail Kornienko of EVA (Extravehicular Activity) equipment & tools [e.g., tethers, protective blankets, a ratchet wrench, extenders, etc.], andFyodor of FGB stowage areas and their contents.  After performing the standard changeout of the TOCA WWB (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer Waste Water Bag) in Node-3, replacing the old bag with a new spare, Tracy Caldwell-Dyson conducted the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling with the TOCA, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.    [After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]  FE-5 Yurchikhin worked in the SM, switching a series of MRM2 KURS-P LF & RF antenna feeder cables to the K2-VKA and 2AOK1-VKA instrumentation units in the SM to support SM +Y (Zenith) port dockings.     [KURS is the automated radar approach & docking system on the Russian Soyuz & Progress vehicles, with the active (KURS-A) component in the visiting vehicles and the passive transponder/repeater-type KURS-P component in the SM.]  After yesterday’s preparations, Alex Skvortsov had ~2 hrs set aside for the periodic window inspection & photography in the SM, using a tool kit with ruler, adhesive tape, 90-deg equilateral triangle & measuring tape, the NIKON D2 X digital camera with 28-70 mm lens, a flash attachment, and sketches of the windows under scrutiny (6, 7, 8, 9, and 12) in SM with previous detected flaws marked and flaw tables.      [Purpose of the activity is to assess the condition of the window panes for deterioration as compared to the data from previous increments (appearance of new cavities, scratches, discolorations, or spots reducing transparency, or an increase in the size of old flaws), plus photography.  Then images and data tables were stored on the RSK1 laptop for subsequent downlink via OCA.]   Shannon Walker returned the ACS (Atmospheric Control System)  oxygen system to nominal configuration (from its contingency setup after the ammonia pump incident).     [Having configured (on 8/6) the LP (Low Pressure) O2 tank to supply O2 to the HP (High Pressure) oxygen system, FE-6 today switched the LP tank back to supply the LP system, and the HP O2 Tank to supply the HP system.]  Shannon also completed the periodic maintenance & visual inspection of the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), checking out rails & rollers, greasing the Y- and Z-axis rails & rollers and evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration.  Misha Kornienko completed the regular weekly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization), primarily inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices) in contingency configuration, SLD cables for fraying and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time & date values.  Then, FE-3 did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Kornienko also collected & downloaded the readings of the Russian “Pille-MKS” (MKS = ISS) radiation dosimetry experiment sensors carried by Tracy (#306) & Wheels (#307) on their spacesuits during yesterday’s EVA-17.  Sasha Skvortsov conducted the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  The CDR also ran another 30-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining NIKON D3 photos and SONY HD video data on oceanic water bloom patterns in the waters of Central-Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.  CDR, FE-3, FE-5 & FE-6 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Mikhail at ~4:05am & ~11:00am, Alex at ~4:05am & ~3:15pm, Fyodor at ~4:05am & ~1:55pm, Shannon at ~1:40pm EDT.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with  vibration isolation (FE-4), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were AMAZONIAN FIRES (DYANMIC EVENT:  Weeks of widespread, cloudless weather has left much of the Amazonian Basin and the adjacent highlands of central Brazil parched and fire-prone.  Normal burning activity has become uncontrollable under these conditions and now enormous fires rage over much of this area producing large, persistent plumes and palls of smoke.  There were two opportunities today to acquire high-oblique context views of this increasingly hazardous situation).  The ISS vantage point for this event has the potential to produce dramatic visuals.  Prompt downlink of any imagery acquired by the crew of it increased its value to the public media).  