
Bio-Monitor: The crew replaced the Data Unit on the Bio-monitor garment. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To address this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way. The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, Electrocardiogram, skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc.
Bioculture System Facility: The crew removed and packed the BioCulture facility in preparation for return on SpX-18. The Bioculture System is a biological science incubator for use on the ISS with the capability of transporting active and stored investigations to ISS. This incubator supports a wide diversity of tissue, cell, and microbiological cultures and experiment methods to meet any spaceflight research investigation goals and objectives.  The facility enables variable duration and long-duration cellular and microbiological investigations on ISS to meet the scientific needs of academic and biotechnology interests.
Micro-15: The crew completed Session C of the Media Change operations. The goal of this investigation is to better understand the effects of gravity on the differentiation of mammalian cells using 3-D cultures of induced pluripotent stem cells. Past flight experiments and ground-based simulations have demonstrated that microgravity influences gene expression, cell proliferation, and differentiation in stem cells but the mechanism behind these observations is not clearly understood. This study investigates how exposure to microgravity fundamentally alters cell regulation and how these changes can affect the timing, progression, and outcomes of cell differentiation. 
Emergency Simulation On-Board Training (OBT): Using a simulator, today all 6 crew members participated training for emergency scenarios that included a Node 1 depressurization event and a Columbus rack fire. The training consisted of the following:

Practiced ISS emergency response with crew and ground roles based on information provided by simulator displays.
Physically translated through ISS to the appropriate response locations to visualize the use of station equipment and interfaces.
Practiced procedure execution and associated decision making based on cues provided by the simulator.
Practiced communication and coordination with Mission Control Center (MCC)-Houston and MCC-Moscow as required for a given emergency scenario.

Following the drill, the crew discussed results internally prior to a conference with ground teams to evaluate the event.
International Docking Adapter (IDA)3 Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for the EVA planned for August 21, the crew continued configuring tools that will be required for the EVA. The crew also reviewed procedures including detailed timeline, cuff checklist, sharp edge briefing and cautions and warnings.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) 6-Month Maintenance: The crew completed this regularly scheduled maintenance to inspect heel raise pip pins, racking mechanism and arm base slider track.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up MSS for Robotic Refueling Mission 3 (RRM3) operations. Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm 2 unstowed Multi-Function Tool 2 (MFT2) from the RRM3 Tool Pedestal. After backaway, the Ground Controllers completed the MFT2 Camera mechanisms and tool drive freespace checkouts. SPDM Arm 2 then opened the Cryogen Coupler Adapter (CCA) port dust door and unlocked the CCA launch lock. SPDM Arm 2 then used MFT2 to pick up the CCA and unstow it. CCA was moved to the CCA-Port and connected. CCA hose did not go back to expected configuration. MFT2 then released CCA and moved clear. SSRMS and Arm 2 were reconfigured and stowed MFT2.  The results of this series of tests will be used to demonstrate potential satellite refueling techniques for future use.
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Status: Today, ground teams received telemetry indicating loss of communication with UPA. The Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) was then configured to collect urine via internal tank (EDB). After ensuring that the communications bus was working properly, ground teams reactivated UPA successfully. WHC was subsequently configured back to UPA.
Completed Task List Activities:

HMS Food Intake Tracker Troubleshooting

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


OBT Emergency SIM
RRM3 ops
Payloads ops support

Look Ahead:
Thursday, 8/15 (GMT 227)
Payloads:


Standard Measures post sleep questionnaire and saliva collect(NASA)
Food Acceptability (NASA)
Bio-Monitor (CSA)
Goodyear Tire (NASA)
ISS HAM (NASA)
The ISS Experience JEM intro recording (NASA)
Micro-15 D1 exchange session ops (NASA)
LSG glove swap (NASA)
Probiotics hardware Gather(JAXA)
Rodent Research-17 restock (NASA)

Systems:

EMU loop scrub
EVA procedure review

Friday, 8/16 (GMT 228)
Payloads:


BioMonitor Wearable hardware remove (CSA)
Probiotics Saliva collect (JAXA)
Team Task Switching Survey (NASA)
ISS Experience hardware Stow (NASA)
Food Acceptability (NASA)
Goodyear Sample Activation (NASA)
Micro-15 Drug Injection Ops A (NASA)
HRF Repository-Blood Collection (NASA)

Systems:

EVA procedures conference
EMU fit verification

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


ARED 6-month maintenance
ARED video verify
RSS2 Software Update for Terminal Computer [ТВМ1-Н]
BIOCARD. Assistance during experiment ops and photography.  Downlink photos via ОСА
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection
Potable Water Dispenser Aux Port Sample
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
БРП-М water sampling to drink bags
СВО-ЗВ water sampling to Russian drink bags
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
Training for Emergency Response On-board ISS
Alternate Glacier Desiccant Swap
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Setup
Atmosphere Purification Unit (БОА) Teardown
MERLIN-2 Power Reset
NeuroMapping Experiment Neurocognitive Test
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
NanoRacks Module-82 Photography
Photo T/V (P/TV) ARED Exercise Video Stow
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Drill Conference
USOS Window Shutter Close
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – OCT Exam – Operator
FOTOBIOREACTOR. Visual inspection with photography
Monitoring closure of shutters on SM windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Stow
Standard Measures Pre-sleep Questionnaire

 