
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)5 Launch:  HTV5 successfully launched from Tanegashima Space Center, Japan at 6:50 am CDT today. Capture and berthing are scheduled for next Monday, August 24 at 5:55 am CDT.
Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) 3 Power on Reset (POR):  The MBSU3 experienced a POR this evening around 2:53 pm CDT.  The flight control team is currently repower downstream loads.   
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations:  

Ocular Health:  Padalka and Kononenko, with Yui acting as Crew Medical Officer (CMO) performed Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and Fundoscopy measurements.  OCT is used to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer, and the fundoscope is used to obtain images of the retinal surface.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.
Biochemical Profile/Repository: Yui performed his Flight Day (FD) 30 blood and urine collections and stowed the samples in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a later flight. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.

Radi-N Neutron Field Study (Radi-N): Kelly retrieved the eight bubble detectors from their deployed locations throughout the station and handed them over to Kononenko.  The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo: Kelly, with ground support, configured the SPHERES satellites for the Vertigo configuration.  The SPHERES satellites were unable to correctly calibrate and the planned test plan was aborted.  Ground teams are reviewing the information that they did receive in order to determine the next course of action.  This investigation uses the SPHERES free-flying satellites and is designed to demonstrate and test, enhanced technologies and techniques related to visual inspection and navigation. This effort incorporates hardware and software that enables multiple SPHERES to construct 3D models of a target object. Additionally, this investigation explores how well the SPHERES free-flyers then perform relative navigation solely by reference to these 3D models.
Biological Rhythms 48 Hour: Lindgren completed his 48-hour data collection today, doffing the electrodes, Holter Electrocardiogram (ECG), and Actiwatch Spectrum and downlinked the data.  Biological Rhythms 48 hours studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
Microbial Air Sampler (MAS)/Surface Sample Kit (SSK) T+5 Analysis: Padalka and Yui performed the T+5 (5 day incubation) analysis on the air and surface microbial and fungal samples collected last Friday.  Colony counts were taken and images were downlinked for specialist evaluations.  The investigation refines locations and surfaces prone to microbial contamination throughout the ISS, shares monitoring technologies and data between NASA and Roscosmos, and provides a scientific basis for decisions about future microbial monitoring, both on ISS through its extended life, and on other future human exploration spacecraft.
High Rate Dosimeter (HRD) Data Take: Yui verified previous correction factors and trend background readings on both HRD units. He recorded memory register values so that a dose measurement can be calculated. CHeCS HRDs measure the radiation dose during high dose rate events.
Space Station Computers (SSC) Donut Part 1 Service Pack – Yesterday, ground controllers successfully loaded the Donut part 1 service pack to the SSCs and the onboard servers.  The Donut service pack adds support for five additional payloads, and provides improvements to the crew webpage, other crew software tools, and the print server.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


HRF. Urine Sample Collection
ISS-MCC-M TV Test TV Session / Video & Audio
HRF. Urine Sample Insertion into MELFI
HRF. The Refrigerated Centrifuge Blood Ops
HRF. Blood Collection
HRF. Centrifuge Configuration
Test TV Session Close-out Ops
WRS Water Sample Analysis
ISS Crew / SSIPC FD Conference
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and measurements. / r/g 9656
HRF. Reconfiguration of centrifuge and cold stowage of blood samples
Tropical Cyclone Hardware Closeout
HRF. Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF. Conclude Blood Collection Ops and Stow Equipment
Reconnecting SM Kurs-P Cables to MRM2 +Y port / r/g 8049
RADIN – Retrieval of dosimeters from deployed locations
RADIN – Handover of Dosimeters to the Russian Crew
MATRYOSHKA-R.Receiving BUBBLE-dosimeter detectors from USOS. / r/g 9656
OCT Hardware Setup
SPHERES – Camera Setup and Video Recording
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and measurements. / r/g 9656
Russian Joint Research (RJR) – Visual Analysis of Surface Samples and Petri Dishes
Fine Motor Skills – Experiment Ops
HRF.  Urine Sample Collection
Symbolic Activity Preparation / r/g 9657
HRF.  Sample MELFI Insertion
OCT Vision Test, Subject
Health Management System (HMS) – Optical Coherence Tomography (ОСТ) – Operator
Replacement of a primary O2 converter in ИК0501 gas analyzer
SPHERES – Start VERTIGO Test
EML – Opening Gas Valves
OCT Vision Test, Subject
OCT Exam – Operator
Ocular Health (OH) – Equipment Stowage
Replacement of FGB Dust Collector ПС1
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Symbolic Activity / r/g 9657
MAS and SSK Analysis T + 5 as a part of Joint Research
HRF. Urine Sample Collection
HRF. Sample MELFI Insertion
CIR – Review
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
ymbolic Activity / r/g 9657
TOCA Data Recording
Symbolic Activity / r/g 9657
Removal of depress hose for nominal operations
BLR48 – Data Saving
Fundoscope Ops – Dilation Drops
SPHERES – Data Export from USB Drive
BLR48 – Data Saving
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
HMS – Fundoscope Setup
MDCA – Preparation Ops
Fundoscope – Vision Test
PAO Event
VIZIR. Experiment Ops with СКП-И P/L. / r/g 9661
CIR – Hardware Gathering
High Rate Dosimeter (HRD) Data Take
Fundoscope Ops – Dilation Drops
SPLANH. Preparation for Experiment / r/g 9658
HRF. Urine Sample Collection
24-hour ECG Monitoring (termination) / r/g 9630
HRF. Sample MELFI Insertion
24-hour BP Monitoring (end) r/g 9631
Fundoscope – Eye Exam
RGN – Initiate drain into EDV
HAPTICS-2 equipment stowage
RGN – Terminate water drain into EDV
Fundoscope Removal and Stowage
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops / r/g 9662 

Completed Task List Items

P/TV external inspection DC1
AC Inverter Deploy in N2
Crew Choice Event

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


SPHERES ops
ROBoT OBT support
Fundoscope ops

