
Payloads:
Dynamics of Microbiomes in Space (DynaMoS): Sample T1 was placed into the Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) facility. DynaMoS examines how microgravity affects metabolic interactions in communities of soil microbes. On Earth, communities of microorganisms carry out key functions in soil, including cycling carbon and other nutrients and supporting plant growth. This research focuses on the soil microorganism communities that decompose chitin, the second most abundant carbon polymer on Earth. Results could improve understanding of the function of soil microorganisms in space compared to on Earth.
Immunosenescence: Media Change and Sampling Operations were performed on Samples A, B and C. This completes all operations for this experiment. Microgravity as a Model for Immunological Senescence and its Impact on Tissue Stem Cells and Regeneration (Immunosenescence) studies the effects of microgravity on cells involved in tissue regeneration and whether recovery occurs post-flight. Results could provide insight into whether effects of the biological aging process can be reversed.
Ring Sheared Drop:  The Ring Sheared Drop (RSD) Sample and Test Cell was removed from the MicroGravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Work Volume (WV), but the RSD hardware will remain in the WV.  The Ring Sheared Drop investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid. Amyloids – fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues – are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Systems:
Cargo Dragon Departure Preparations: Yesterday, the crew completed activities in preparation for SpX-25 undock on August 18. The crew transferred cargo, payloads and three Polar units to Cargo Dragon. Today, the crew continued cargo operations to finish packing the middle-center of the vehicle. The crew also inspected and cleaned the Dragon Docking System Forward Hatch prior to departure to ensure successful Forward Hatch closure and seal as well as avoid liberated Foreign Object Debris (FOD) compromising International Docking Adapter (IDA) seal surface during undock.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Sample Operations: The crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water. The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: Today, the crew set up the recycle tank to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Completed Task List Activities:

ARED Labeling
Hypervisor Configuration Photo
MSG W212 Cable Locate
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Sensor Relocate
ROBO Cue Card Print and Replace

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PRO LSG Facility Activation & Deactivation Commanding
Immunosenescence Media Change and Sampling Ops Support
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Support

