
Payloads
Anti-Atrophy:  A crewmember performed a medium exchange for Anti-Atrophy samples.  Muscle atrophy that occurs in microgravity affects the quality of life of astronauts.  Research on Inhibitory Effects of Novel Concept Biomaterials, an HSP Inducer and Ubiquitin Ligase Inhibitor, on Microgravity-induced Muscle Atrophy (Anti-Atrophy) tests the ability of these biomaterials to inhibit muscle atrophy in microgravity.  The investigation examines cells cultured with and without biomaterials, including C14Cblin, a muscle atrophy inhibitor, and Celastrol, a muscle synthesis accelerator.
Eklosion:  A crewmember retrieved the Eklosion hardware and installed it in the Columbus module, charged it, performed the first watering of the plant sample, smelled the flower, and took photos.  The Eklosion investigation utilizes a vase, inspired by the VEGGIE plant growth facility, specially designed for use in the microgravity environment aboard the ISS.  Eklosion contains within its hull small messages and smells from Earth for the psychological benefit of the crew member who conducts the investigation.
Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina): A crewmember executed the Lumina data transfer and set the parameters via EveryWear application. Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation.  The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Materials Science Lab Batch 3a (MSL SCA-Batch3a-ESA) Columnar-to-Equiaxed Transition in Solidification Processing (CETSOL):  A crewmember removed the used MSL LGF Sample Cartridge, installed the next Sample Cartridge, and prepared the facility for the next sample run.  The Materials Science Lab Batch 3a (MSL SCA-Batch 3a-ESA) serves two projects investigating how different phases organize in a structure when metallic alloys are solidified.  The Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions (MICAST) experiment aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. CETSOL aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys.
RElative Satellite sWArming and Robotic Maneuvering (ReSWARM):  A crewmember set up the Astrobee Free Flyers to test autonomous microgravity motion planning and control for on-orbit assembly and coordinated motion as part of the ReSWARM study, and to assist the ground team in monitoring Astrobee performance for multiple test runs.  ReSWARM uses the ISS’s free-flying Astrobees to demonstrate autonomous on-orbit robotic servicing such as assembly of structures and moving cargo.  The investigation tests coordination among multiple robots, robots and cargo, and robots and the environment in which they operate.  Future space missions could involve a variety of robotic operations including autonomous docking and repairs.
Ring Sheared Drop:  The crew removed existing syringe and test cells and installed a new syringe and new test cell into the Ring Sheared Drop hardware in MSG Work Volume.  The Ring Sheared Drop investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid.  Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues, amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s.  Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  In preparation of the IROSA 4A preparation EVA currently scheduled for August 24th, the crew completed the configuration of the IPA Mod Kit Strut Bag, the Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) Checkout, EVA Tool Configuration, and the Floating Potential Measurement Unit (FPMU) Configuration and checkout.
Crew Alternate Sleep Accommodations (CASA) Keep-Out Zone (KOZ) Labels: The crew completed the installation of KOZ labels in CASA in preparation for future occupation and crew use. As part of CASA certification for Crew Occupancy, the Safety Review Panel have requested the incorporation of labels on the CASA inlet and outlet air ducts and on the CASA ATU port to denote the KOZs for each. No stowage or hardware should be placed within these KOZs.  The KOZs are in place to preserve airflow and alarm audibility.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Udon Service Pack Deploy
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Node 3 Mode Transition to Dual

