
SpaceX-25 Undock and Return: Due to unfavorable weather conditions at the landing site, Cargo Dragon SpaceX-25 (SpX-25) undock was delayed a day from the original departure date of August 18th. The next undock opportunity is tomorrow, August 19th, at 10:00 AM CT. The crew instead had a light duty day in preparation for undock slated tomorrow.
Payloads: 
ISS Ham Radio: A crewmember initiated an ISS Ham pass with Cambridge Public Library and Idea Exchange, Cambridge, ON, Canada. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have approximately 9 minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
J-SSOD-22 (JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-22): The J-SSOD-22 Deployer was removed and stowed from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP). J-SSOD-22 CubeSat deployment mission was launched to the ISS aboard the SpaceX-25 Dragon Cargo Vehicle. The J-SSOD provides a novel and safe small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD, including satellite cases with small satellites, is installed onto the MPEP by crew members, it is passed through the JEM Airlock for retrieval, positioning, and deployment by the JEMRMS.
Systems: 
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: The crew performed a monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screen tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking and spatial processing.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis. The crew also changed out the Waste Water Bag (WWB).
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Life Support Rack (LSR) Power Cable Inspection: The crew demated the LSR 120V main power cable from the Z-panel then inspected both ends of the umbilical. The cable and Z-panel were both capped for future LSR troubleshooting. The LSR is an ESA payload rack which contains a closed loop Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS).
Completed Task List Activities: 

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

HD EMU Camera 1 File Transfers
PRO Lab Express Rack 1, 6 & 7 MTL Flow Commanding
Vacuum System (VS) Limit Configuration
PRO Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Commanding

