
Payloads
Cardinal Muscle:  A crewmember prepared for Cardinal Muscle operations by retrieving the Saline bags and inserting them into SABL-2.  In addition, a crewmember removed the Cardinal Muscle samples from the Glacier cold stowage facility.  Muscle mass diminishes with age on Earth via a condition called sarcopenia, and astronauts experience similar and accelerated loss of muscle mass during spaceflight. Tissue Engineered Muscle in Microgravity as a Novel Platform to Study Sarcopenia (Cardinal Muscle) evaluates whether engineered human muscle cells cultured in microgravity are a valid model for studying muscle loss. Because microgravity accelerates the process, a valid tissue model could enable rapid assessment of therapeutics to treat muscle loss.
Cell Gravisensing:  The crew prepared for Cell Gravisensing operations by setting up samples and inserting them into the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF).  The Elucidation of the Gravisensing Mechanism in Single Cells (Cell Gravisensing) investigation studies how cells sense gravity. While recent research has revealed that individual animal cells can detect gravity, the mechanism for this sensing is largely unknown.  This investigation analyzes changes in tension in cell stress fibers during spaceflight as a possible mechanism.
Mochii:  The crew powered down the unit.  Ground teams will be determining a forward plan to recover Mochii.  Mochii is a miniature Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) with spectroscopy to conduct real-time, on-site imaging and compositional measurements of particles on the ISS.  Such particles can cause vehicle and equipment malfunctions and threaten crew health, but currently, samples must be returned to Earth for analysis, leaving crew and vehicle at risk.  Mochii also provides a powerful new analysis platform to support novel microgravity science and engineering.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  In preparation for the IROSA 4A preparation EVA currently scheduled for August 24th, the crew completed a nominal EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) loop scrub of suits 3009 and 3015.  The crew initiated an ionic and particulate scrubbing and an iodination of the EMU’s and Airlock cooling water loops.  In addition, the crew installed Li-Ion batteries into the battery stowage compartment and initiated the charging cycle.
Completed Task List Activities:

CYG-RPOP-TEARDOWN
SSC-UDON SP BPW RVW
OBT-CYG VEH OPS-CBT

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SSRMS Cygnus Ungrapple and maneuver to ASIM Test position

