
Payloads
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4):  The crew disconnected the InSPACE-4 SSD cards and USB Cables from MSG HD Video Drawer and packed the items for return.  InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields.  These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat.  Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Astrobee:  The crew replaced stowage in the JEM module and powered off the Flyer units. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots, which are designed to help scientists, and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station.  The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Using Water Bears to Identify Biological Countermeasures to Stress during Multigenerational (Cell Science-04):  The crew injected the algae solution into the Bioreactors of the BioCulture Cassettes. The tardigrade (water bear) is the model organism for studying biological survival under the most extreme environmental stress conditions on Earth and in space.  The objective of the Cell Science-04 investigation is to characterize the molecular biology of short term and multigenerational survival in the space environment by identifying genes that are required for adaptation and survival in high stress environments.  The findings from this study can be applied to understanding the stress factors of humans in the space environment, and identification of countermeasures.
ESA-EPO AstroPi Videos:  The crew recorded a message revealing the new AstroPi MkII unit and announce the AstroPi Challenge 2021/22.  The activities related to ESA-EPO Generic Videos are intended to encourage and strengthen the teaching of science curriculum and stimulate the curiosity of students to motivate them towards further study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects.
Human Resources Facility (HRF):  The crew took photos of pressure gauges on the HRF GDS Tanks stored inside the PFS Gas Cylinders, which support Portable PFS.  The crew then transferred photos to an SSC for downlink.  HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight.  Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Mochii:  The crew inserted a 32GB MicroSD Card into Mochii containing an uploaded operating system and performed a reboot as part of troubleshooting efforts to recover the Mochii Hardware.  Mochii is a miniature scanning electron microscope (SEM) with spectroscopy to conduct real-time, on-site imaging and compositional measurements of particles on the ISS.  Such particles can cause vehicle and equipment malfunctions and threaten crew health, but currently, samples must be returned to Earth for analysis, leaving crew and vehicle at risk. Mochii also provides a powerful new analysis platform to support novel microgravity science and engineering.
ISS HAM:  A crewmember initiated a contact with the 1st Ono Group Hyogo Council Scout Association of Japan.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG):  A crewmember cleaned the MSG Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) fan and E-Box inlet screens as well as the HD Video Drawer and MSG Laptop Computer (MLC) air inlet screens.  The MSG is a rack-level payload facility located in the U.S. Lab on the ISS.  MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present.  MSG is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
Systems
Node 1 Aft Starboard Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Fan Cleaning:  The crew cleaned the IMV fan inlet and silencers at Node 1 Starboard Aft.  The purpose of this cleaning is to remove any foreign object or debris (FOD) from the inlet and silencers at that location.  In addition, the crew used the Velocicalc tool to take Velocicalc measurements of the Node 1 Aft Starboard ventilation inlet and outlet after the cleaning.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  In preparation for the iROSA 4A Prep EVA on August 25th, the crew set up the ECWS (Enhanced Caution and Warning System) onboard trainer to review operation of the ECWS and practice EVA Cuff Checklist procedures.  In addition, the crew performed a VRT (Virtual Reality Training) event to practice SAFER (Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue) rescue scenarios.  Lastly, the crew performed an inspection of the set of RET (Retractable Equipment Tether) and other hardware with integrated RETs.
Completed Task List Activities:

EVA-NZGL-FAM
EVA-PGT-FAM
WHC-KTO-REPLACE

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

CCDB Param update
IMV Valve Cycle

