08-15-2010August 15, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/15/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – crew off duty.   Ahead: Week 11 of Increment 24.   At wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   Also at wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson & FE-4 Wheelock completed another session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   As part of the crew’s regular morning inspection tour, CDR Skvortsov conducted the routine checkup of circuit breakers & fuses in the MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2) module.     [The monthly checkup in the “Poisk” module looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 & BPP-36.]   Skvortsov later completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]    Caldwell-Dyson & Wheelock completed final preparations for tomorrow’s Contingency EVA-17.    [Activities included configuring tools needed during the spacewalk such as equipment tethers, wire ties, D-ring extenders, etc., and making further preparations in the A/L EL (Airlock Equipment Lock), checking on PGTs (Pistol Grip Tools, #1001 w/battery 1006 for EV1, PGT #1006 w/battery 1008 for EV2, backup PGT #1004 w/battery 1004 in bag), filling DIDBs (Disposable In-suit Drink Bags) from PWD (Potable Water Dispenser), verifying installation of HL (Helmet Light) batteries (1029, 1030, 1031 &1022), etc.  Note from Wheelock to MCC-H: “All else checks out according to the tool inventory in the procedure.  We just wanted to let you guys know that you are awesome!  We're looking forward to working with you and bringing the Station back to life.” ]   Afterwards, Tracy, Doug & Shannon spent ~3 hrs on reviewing latest EVA procedures.     [The review included revised detailed procedures, a QD (Quick Disconnect) operations briefing package, Robo/SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) instructions, etc.]   A teleconference by Doug, Shannon & Tracy with EVA specialists at MCC-Houston wrapped up preps at ~10:2am.   To ensure a functioning CO2 (carbon dioxide) sensor on his EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) #3005, Doug Wheelock again set up the sensor to flow O2 (oxygen) through it for an hour to remove any moisture, and then checked the sensor's functionality.   Working with Tracy Caldwell-Dyson, Mikhail Kornienko retrieved three Russian “Pille-MKS” radiation dosimeters, recorded their dosages in the Reader and equipped each of the two EMUs for tomorrow’s spacewalk with a sensor unit (A0306 & A0307).    [A third sensor, A0311, which had been in the Reader, was read in manual mode.]   Preparatory to the EVA-17, FE-6 Shannon Walker –  Printed out new      instructions for actions to be taken in case of occurrence of a      “next worst failure”, e.g. MBSU 2 (Main      Bus Switching Unit 2) failure, ETCS Loop B failure, File Server crash,      etc., Reviewed uplinked briefing      material on NH3 (ammonia) decontamination procedures and      verified hardware readiness, Conducted a review of POC      DOUG (Portable Onboard Computers Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics)      software and teleconference with the ROBO and MSS Instructor on the ground      for the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System), and Powered down the      amateur/ham radio equipment in the SM and verified closure of the      protective window shutters of the Lab, Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module)      and Node-3 Cupola.    FE-2 & FE-4 had their standard pre-EVA PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Tracy at ~11:30am, Wheels at ~12:50pm EDT.   The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]   Jobs listed for Skvortsov & Kornienko today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –  Another ~40-min. run of      the GFI-8      "Uragan"      (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D2X digital camera      photography with 800mm telelens (FE-3) for targets of Darwin Island in the      Galapagos (the northernmost and most remote island from Isabel island), A ~30-min. session for      Russia's EKON      Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial      photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X      camera (CDR/FE-3), and A ~30-min. photography      session for the DZZ-13      “Seiner”      ocean observation program, obtaining NIKON D3 photos and SONY HD video data      on oceanic water blooms, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop (CDR).    After completing preparations of A/L EL (Airlock Equipment Lock) for tonight’s lockout, Doug Wheelock (EV1) and Tracy Caldwell-Dyson (EV2) will begin their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) in the A/L with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe with oxygen (~2:35pm-3:45pm) and sleep from 5:30pm-2:00am.      [The CL hatch will then be cracked (i.e., temporarily repressurized to 14.7 psi) for a hygiene break/with mask prebreathe for Tracy & Doug at 2:35am-3:45am.  Shannon will provide suited support in the A/L   Around 3:45am, the hatch will be closed again for EVA preps in 10.2 psi (3:45am – 5:15am), followed by EMU purge (~5:15am – 5:30am) &  prebreathe (~5:30am – 6:20am).  Afterwards, Walker will support CL depressurization until egress at ~6:55am.]    Activities for EVA-17 will be to –  Install spare PM (Pump      Module) mechanically Mate & open spare      PM fluid QDs (Quick Disconnects) Perform electrical      & data continuity checks plus bump-start test (by MCC-H, to check pump      functionality) Re-couple stbd &      port CETA carts Clean up spare      PM/S1/CETA (Crew & Equipment Translation Aid) cart Clean up SSRMS (remove      APRF for walkoff) Install J612 extension      cable for ULF5/PMM (Pressurized Multipurpose Module) Clean up tethers at S1      truss segment Configure CETA cart to allow for WS8 (Worksite 8) ops Move old PM      to ESP-2/mate min electrical connectors (if time allows) Cleanup/Ingress.    No (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  