
Payloads
Astrobee: The crew powered up the Astrobee free flyers and cleared away and stowed items within the JEM module in preparation for Astrobee flyer operations. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew installed the Round Robin #2 Sample Cartridge into the ELF facility. The MSPR work bench was then closed out. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): The crew performed cable connections to hoses and bags as part of closeout procedures. The demonstration of JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS) generates potable water from urine. In the past on manned spacecraft, urine and waste water were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Systems
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 2 Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Screen Installation:  Today, the crew installed an IMV screen over the Node 2 Starboard Forward IMV Inlet. The fine mesh screen was installed to decrease foreign object debris (FOD) in the Columbus module and ventilation hardware. The original mesh size of the current screen was fine enough to catch larger particles but over time smaller debris can pass through the screen and collect in the ducting downstream of the IMV and cabin fans. Adding the finer mesh screen will protect the ventilation hardware from debris build up over time.
Emergency Communication Verification: Today, the crew performed an emergency communication checkout from the US segment using the Very High Frequency (VHF)-1 comm system over US ground sites. During the Wallops ground site pass, the crew conducted a comm check with each center in Houston, Huntsville, Munich, Tsukuba, and Moscow. VHF-1 provides the emergency back-up for ISS to ground communication. Due to the rarity of using the VHF system over the US ground sites, emergency VHF comm verifications offer the only means of assuring the end-to-end VHF systems, equipment and personnel are operational and ready to support an emergency. 
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)9 Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued with HTV9 cargo transfer operations.  Ground teams estimate approximately 2 hours remain to complete available cargo ops. The crew will continue to focus on HTV9 cargo operations in preparation for HTV9 close out and departure early next week. HTV9 is scheduled to unberth from the ISS on Tuesday, August 18th.
Completed Task List Activities:

Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PRBE) Hardware Setup
HTV Cargo Ops (on-going)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Comm Config for MRM Ops
Ground Supt for P/TV ARED
Ground Cmding for Astrobee Ops

