08-11-11August 11, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/11/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      As part of the regular Daily Morning Inspection, FE-1 Samokutyayev checked out the SM (Service Module) PSS caution & warning panel. CDR Borisenko inspected the newly activated Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, checking for proper fan operation by testing the air flow from the ventilators BO A04 & BO A05 and verifying that both LEDs (Light Emitting Diodes) are lit.     [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]  Afterwards, Andrey initiated charging of the KPT-2 Piren battery for the Piren-V Pyro-endoscope, part of the Russian BAR science instruments suite (other BAR components being the ТТМ-2 Anemometer-Thermometer, the charger cable, and the video display unit).      [Piren-V, a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, is part of the methods & means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Besides Piren-V, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.] At wake-up, FE-4 Volkov terminated his 3rd experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  Afterwards, Sergei took his 2nd MBI-24 “SPRUT-2” (“Squid-2”) test, part of Russian medical research on the distribution and behavior of human body fluids in zero gravity, along with PZEh-MO-8 body mass measurement using the IM device.      [Supported by the RSS-Med A31p laptop with new software (Vers. 1.6) in the SM, the test uses the Profilaktika kit, with data recorded on PCMCIA memory cards, along with Andrey’s body mass values and earlier recorded MO-10 Hematocrit value, but skipping “fat fold” measurements.  Experiment requisites are the Sprut securing harness, skin electrodes (cuffs), and RSS-Med for control and data storage.  The “Pinguin” suit or Braslet-M cuffs, if worn, have to be taken off first.  Electrode measurements are recorded at complete rest and relaxed body position.  The actual recording takes 3-5 minutes, during which the patient has to remain at complete rest.] Borisenko configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his 4th, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic & physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.] FE-5 Furukawa began the periodic HRF (Human Research Facility) generic 24-hr urine collection period, with samples deposited in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Later in the day, Satoshi set up the equipment for the associated blood collection, scheduled tomorrow with Ron Garan’s assistance.      [The operational products for blood & urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.] Later, Satoshi conducted another session with the JAXA SSHDTV (Super Sensitive High-Definition Television) camera for night views, equipping it with its single-focus 8 mm lens and setting the automatic recorder clock & time code to start the recording for about 5 minutes of night view video, focused on the Japanese islands.  Also in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-5 installed a sound muffler on the MSPR (Multipurpose Small Payload Rack)’s Work Volume avionics air port, using Kapton tape. FE-6 Fossum opened the protective window shutters of the Lab WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment, so ground images can be captured by ground commanding.  At sleeptime tonight, Mike will close the shutters again.      [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light & infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.] For most of his working hours, Mike supported another session of the SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment) payload, activating the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) from its laptop and conducting three consecutive experiment runs, each with an FM (Fluid Module), unstowed & retrieved from the CGBA (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus) and restowed after its run.  At the conclusion later today, FE-6 will transfer the experiment data and turn off the equipment, including the      [Background:  Rheology is the study of the deformation and flow of matter under the influence of an applied stress (“preshearing” = rotation) which might be, for example, a shear stress or extensional stress.  In practice, rheology is principally concerned with extending the "classical" disciplines of elasticity and (Newtonian) fluid mechanics to materials whose mechanical behavior cannot be described with the classical theories.  SHERE is designed to study the effect of preshear (rotation) on the transient evolution of the microstructure and viscoelastic tensile stresses for solutions with long chains of monodisperse dilute polymer molecules in the MSG.  Collectively referred to as “Boger fluids,” these polymer solutions have become a popular choice for rheological studies of non-Newtonian fluids and are the non-Newtonian fluid used in this experiment.  The SHERE hardware consists of the Rheometer, Camera Arm, Interface Box, Cabling, Keyboard, Tool Box, Fluid Modules, and Stowage Tray.] Samokutyayev performed the periodic task of downloading structural dynamics measurements of the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer of the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.      [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.] Later, Sasha concluded his latest session of the standard 24-hour ECG (electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2-1 protocol, started yesterday, and CDR Borisenko initiated his own session of the 24-hour PZE MO-2-1 protocol.     [After the ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system, Sergei doffed the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads over the past 24 hours, recording data on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results were then downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data were downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.] Each of the Increment 27/Soyuz-26S crewmembers, Borisenko, Samokutyayev & Garan, took the (approx.) monthly O-OHA (On-Orbit Hearing Assessment) test, a 30-min NASA environmental health systems examination to assess the efficacy of acoustic countermeasures, using a special software application on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.      [The O-OHA audiography test involves minimum audibility measurements for each ear over a wide range of frequencies (0.25-10 kHz) and sound pressure levels, with the crewmembers using individual-specific Prophonics earphones, new Bose ANC headsets (delivered on 30P) and the SLM (sound level meter).  To conduct the testing, the experimenter is supported by special EarQ software on the MEC, featuring an up/down-arrow-operated slider for each test frequency that the crewmember moves to the lowest sound pressure level at which the tone can still be heard.  The baseline test is required not later than about Flight Day 14 for each new Expedition and is then generally performed once per month.  Note: There has been temporary hearing deficits documented on some U.S. and Russian crewmembers, all of which recovered to pre-mission levels.] Furukawa filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.] In the JAXA JPM, Satoshi supported more JEMRMS (Japan Experiment Module / Robotic Manipulator System) operations.     [Activities included first activating the RLT (Robotics Laptop Terminal), CCP (Camera Control Panel) plus RMS Monitors and configuring settings for JEU (Joint Expedited Undocking) Resolver  & MDP (Management Data Processor) mode, then ungrappling the SFA (Small Fine Arm) at its stowage site and maneuvering the RMS MA (Main Arm) back to Stowed position.] FE-3 Garan went on a search looking for a missing Regenerative ECLSS PPE (Environmental Control and Life Support Systems / Personal Protective Equipment) Tox-2 Kit, containing quick-don masks, safety goggles, wipes, biohazard decals, etc. In the Lab, Garan later removed the alignment guides from FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack) to allow the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be activated before begin of ground-commanded FIR operations requiring a microgravity environment. As another handover activity, FE-3 & FE-6 (who will take over Ron’s duties after 26S departure) jointly conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.      [The current card (28-0014I) lists 118 good CWCs (2,849.3 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (32 CWCs with 1,347.8 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 872.3 L in 21 bags containing Wautersia bacteria and 390.8 L in 9 clean bags for contingency use;  2. Silver potable water (no CWCs);  3. Iodinated water (74 CWCs with 1,333.6 L (also 33 expired bags with 603.2 L);  4. condensate water (130.9 L in 9 bags, plus 1 empty bag); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (37.0 L in 2 CWCs, incl. 20.2 L from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] Afterwards, Garan & Furukawa had ~1h40m reserved for relocating CWCs stowed in the JPM to the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) and the Lab.      [In Part 1 of the task, CWCs were to be staged in an easily accessible location for Russian use.  Currently, one CWC is expected to be needed for Russian use each week while Elektron is running, but the amount can vary based on specific SOZh needs.  In Part 2, all CWCs that were filled during ULF7 were to be moved out of the JPM per NASA-JAXA stowage allocation requirements.] Continuing the troubleshooting of the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) after the failure of its Russian Pump Separator ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit), FE-3 removed the WHC-02 closeout panel and inspected the ORU for leakage.      [WHC is operating nominally, and the inspections of the Pump Separator and COT (Wring Collector) will be performed periodically.  UMS (Urine Monitoring System) is on hold for now, and UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) will not be integrated into the system until it is sure that a PT (Pre-Treat) leak cannot get into the urine stream.] Working afterwards in the US Airlock on the SSC-10 (Station Support Computer 10) laptop, Ron replaced its broken ISL (Integrated Station LAN) Ethernet cable with a spare 5m Ethernet cable from stowage. After the overnight battery charging, Andrey Borisenko installed and started the equipment of the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment at SM window #9 for another run, using it to observe the Earth atmosphere and surface at specific uplinked times.  Later, the CDR dismantled the equipment again and dumped the data via the RSS1 terminal.    [Using the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka-MV-Kosmos” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and SONY HVR-Z7 HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #9, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.] At ~9:35am EDT, the six crew members jointly undertook the standard 60-min. OBT (on-board training) session with procedures to refresh their proficiency in responding to a rapid depressurization emergency.  An introductory tagup preceded the drill, and a joint drill debrief with ground specialists via S-band at ~11:50am EDT wrapped up the exercise.       [Objective of the exercise is to provide proficiency training for crew response during depressurization.  The training exercise is performed under the most realistic emergency conditions possible.  Instructors & OBT experts at the control centers (TsUP-Moscow, MCC-Houston, COL-CC/Oberpfaffenhofen and SSIPC/Tsukuba) stood by to send commands as required and respond to crew questions.  The crew moved throughout the station in order to simulate emergency response actions per procedures at specific checkpoints; they communicated & coordinated simulated actions with the control centers as if this were a real event.] In the FGB, Sasha Samokutyayev had several hours set aside to use microbial growth wipes and Fungistat disinfectant to clean areas behind wall panels which have shown some microbial contamination.     [Today’s treatment focused on panels 203 & 403.  The activity will be continued tomorrow behind panels 202, 302 & 402.  Areas of interest are accessible frame sections, attachments, mounting bracket, pressurized shell surface areas, panel internal surfaces, etc.] FE-4 Volkov conducted the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Sergei also took care of the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Volkov had another 2h30m reserved for loading waste & excessed hardware on Progress M-11M/43P (#411) for disposal, plus updating the IMS database concurrently.     [43P is scheduled for undocking on 8/23.] Before his sleeptime, Sergei will initiate battery charging for the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging equipment with the FSS hardware for tomorrow’s planned observation session.    [The FSS system consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module.] With the Russian Elektron oxygen generator currently inactive, FE-4 was to initiate another refresh of the ISS interior with an O2 repress from Progress 43P tankage on Go-ahead from TsUP-Moscow. Ron continued the unpacking & stowing of Progress 42P-delivered US cargo unloaded on 8/9 by Sasha. Before “Presleep” period tonight, Garan turns on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starts the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.      [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.] At ~4:35am, Satoshi powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 4:45am conducted a ham radio session with participants at the Nova Youth Hostel "La Foresta", near Castel Rigone, Trasimeno Lake, Perugia, Italy. At ~2:20pm, FE-3 Garan conducted the regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists, discussing post-ULF7 stowage questions. The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR, FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-4). Conjunction Update:    Flight controllers continue to monitor the conjunction with Object #30187, debris from the Chinese satellite Fengyun 1C, now classified as below the threshold for scheduling a DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver).   No maneuver was necessary for tonight’s two TCAs (Times of Closest Approach), with POC (Probability of Collision) calculated to be zero.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):   Current daylight-awake ISS orbit tracks have progressed into a seasonal low-light pattern into the Southern Hemisphere.  Few, if any of CEO targets in that part of the world will have suitable visibility due to illumination or weather constraints.  These conditions are expected to persist for another 5 to 7 days.  Meanwhile, CEO staffers will look for nighttime opportunities for either displays of Aurora or Noctilucent Clouds, or, possibly Cities at Night targets.  CEO targets uplinked for today were Aurora Borealis, NW North America (DYNAMIC EVENT:  The NOAA Space Weather Prediction Center suggests that statistically the strongest Auroral activity in the Northern Hemisphere will be found over the polar regions from the longitudes of 90E [central Asia] to 90W [central North America].   At the uplinked time the crew was to begin looking obliquely left of track towards the atmospheric limb of polar region for Aurora during the next 7 minutes), and Noctilucent Clouds, Northern Europe (DYNAMIC EVENT:  At the uplinked time, as ISS tracked northeastward over the western Mediterranean Sea, the crew was to begin looking left for these bluish, sun-illuminated cloud elements, well above the horizon, trying for high oblique panning views of the atmospheric limb looking left of track for about 7 to 9 minutes). 