
58 Progress (58P) Undock: 58P successfully undocked from the ISS at 5:19 am CDT. The crew reported that the docking ring surface showed no damage or Foreign Object Debris (FOD). Deorbit burn, atmospheric entry and destruction occurred at 9:10 am CDT.
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)5 Launch Delay: HTV5 launch that was scheduled for this Sunday has been scrubbed due to weather. The next launch attempt will be Monday, August 17 at 7:35 am CDT with capture on August 21 at 6:00 am CDT and berthing approximately 3 hours later.
Haptics-2: Yui performed On-Board Training (OBT), then set up and executed two protocols for Haptics-2. Protocol 1B tests the Ku-forward communications path. Protocol 2B is the bilateral control test that is used to verify which performance can be achieved with force-feedback control from space. Haptics-2 compares the performance achievable through two different communication links; an IP forward link through Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System (TDRSS) with substantial amount of time-delay and high bandwidth and, a direct S-band link through the KONTUR-2 system which has a short time-delay and reduced bandwidth. Haptics-2 consists of 2 independent experiment protocols aimed at quantifying the performance characteristics of the two different communication channels between space and ground. It also demonstrates for the first time, real bilateral teleoperation with force-feedback to take place between space and ground through both communication links.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Zero Robotics: Kelly, Kononenko, and Yui conducted a conference with the SPHERES Principal Investigator, then configured the satellites for the Zero Robotics competition. The SPHERES Zero-Robotics investigation establishes an opportunity for middle school students to design research for the ISS. As part of a competition, students write algorithms for the SPHERES satellites to accomplish tasks relevant to future space missions. The algorithms are tested by the SPHERES team and the best designs are selected for the competition to operate the SPHERES satellites on board the ISS. Each season begins with the unveiling of a game motivated by a challenging problem of interest to NASA and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). During the competition, each team must complete a set of pre-determined tasks. During all phases, the students are challenged not only with programming, but with the development of documentation and presentations to add to their engineering and communication skills.
Russian Joint Research (RJR) Sampling: Padalka completed Microbial Air Sampling (MAS) and took surface samples using both microbial and fungal Surface Sample Kits (SSKs).  The samples will be incubated and analyzed on Tuesday, April 21.  The investigation refines locations and surfaces prone to microbial contamination throughout the ISS, share monitoring technologies and data between NASA and Roscosmos, and provides a scientific basis for decisions about future microbial monitoring, both on ISS through its extended life, and on other future human exploration spacecraft.
Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003, 3010 Maintenance:  Lindgren completed a partial water dump and fill for EMU 3003 and a full water dump and fill for EMU 3010 followed by loop scrubs and water sampling on both suits. Following these activities he completed a dryout on both suits.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference
OBT – HAPTICS-2 1B and 2B protocols OBT
Closing window shutters 6,8,9,12,13,14 / r/g 6965
USOS Window Shutter Close
ISS HAM – Radio Power Down
Comm Config prior to MRM2 Ops
Checkout of thermostat ТБУ-В No.6 in MRM2
HAP2. Hardware setup
Russian Joint Research (RJR) – Microbiology air sampling of the ISS
Changeout of СРВК-2М Water Conditioning Unit Purification Columns (БК БКВ)
HAP2- Protocol Operations
HAP2. Photo Documentation
BLR48 – Hardware Ops
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
HAP2. Closeout Ops
Photography of 58P Docking Assembly from SM Window No.27 after Separation from the ISS
Flushing СРВК-2М БКВ water conditioning unit water purification columns (start)
Comm reconfig for nominal ops following MRM2 activities
EMU backpack replacement
Russian Joint Research (RJR) – Microbiology air sampling of the ISS
Switch ПрК-ТК PEV to CLOSED position
EMU – Flush and Water Tank Fill
IMS Tagup (S-band)
Air sampling using АК-1М sampler in SM, FGB
Terminate the 2nd Orlan-MK 825М3 Battery Pack discharge No.1267271172
SPHERES – Payload Conference
EMU Cooling Loop Scrub, Part 1
RGN – Initiate drain into EDV
SPHERES – Hardware Setup and Checkout
Removal of deployed Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Monitors
RGN – Terminate water drain into EDV
SPHERES – Welcoming Students in the comm session
EMU Cooling Loop Post Scrub Water Sample
SPHERES – Camera Setup and Test Start
SPHERES – Setup Equipment and Run the Experiment
Russian Joint Research (RJR) – Surface Sampler Kit (SSK)- Surface Sampling
OTKLIK. Hardware Check
EMU Cooling Loop Maintenance.
VIZIR. Experiment Ops with СКП-И P/L
ISS HAM Radio Power Up
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) – Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) – Full Fill
TV Conference with LifeNews TV Channel Correspondent
SPHERES – Hardware power off, battery replacement, and stowage
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) – Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) – Full Fill
EMU – Cooling Loop Maintenance – EMU Reconfig
Gather Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) and Vestibule Outfitting Equipment
EMU – Long Dryout
Unlatching N2 Nadir Hatch Hardstops
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout
EMU – Cooling Loop Scrub – Deconfiguration
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. Experiment Ops

Completed Task List Items

Crew Provisions Consolidation [In Work] 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


EVA EMU ops
SPHERES ZR ops
ISS Server 1 reload [In Work]
N2 CBCS checkout

