
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)5 Launch: Today’s scheduled launch of HTV5 from Tanegashima, Japan was scrubbed due to weather. The next launch attempt will be Wednesday, August 19 at 6:50 am CDT with capture on Monday, August 24 at 5:55 am CDT.
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: Kelly and Kornienko performed Day 1 of 3 for their Flight Day (FD) 150 Ocular Health session and their second Pilot-T session.  Kelly completed his FD 146 Fine Motor Skills session and is scheduled for his first of three weekly Journal sessions.  Lindgren (FD 27) and Kornienko (FD 142) completed Cognition.

Ocular Health: Kelly and Kornienko performed vision tests followed by vision questionnaires.  The crew then took blood pressure measurements, and with Padalka as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO), performed tonometry measurements.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.
Fine Motor Skills is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of Fine Motor Skills is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
The goal of the Pilot-T experiment is to improve methods and develop equipment to assess and predict crewmember performance reliability during the execution of complex operator tasks (piloting a space vehicle and controlling transport and robotic equipment on the surface of a spacecraft) during various stages of long-term spaceflight.
Journals obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures and sustained human performance during extended-duration missions.
Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance.

Observation Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS) Hard Drive Exchange: Kornienko swapped the Hard Drives for the OASIS experiment.  Following the swap, an island test was conducted by ground controllers.  The removed hard drive was stowed for return on a later flight. OASIS studies the unique behavior of liquid crystals in microgravity, including their overall motion and the merging of crystal layers known as smectic islands. The experiment allows detailed studies of the behavior of these structures, and how microgravity affects their unique ability to act like both a liquid and a solid crystal.
Plant Rotation: Yui began Plant Rotation Run 4 today which will continue through August 26 with observation by JAXA controllers.  He prepared the samples and initiated the sample incubation period in the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF).  Many species of climbing plants grow upward in a spiraling shape, a process known as circumnutation. Plant organs, such as stems, leaves, and roots also grow in a spiraling, helical shape. This spiraling process can take many forms, including very tight loops and broad curves. The Plant Rotation experiment verifies the hypothesis that this type of plant growth requires gravity.
Biological Rhythms 48 Hour: Lindgren started his 48-hour data collection, donning electrodes and wearing a Holter Electrocardiogram (ECG) and Actiwatch Spectrum to monitor and log circadian rhythms. Biological Rhythms studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours. While the ISS follows Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), it remains unknown whether a separate biological rhythm is imposed on long-term flight crews. To study this astronauts wear an Actiwatch sleep monitor for 96 hours and a Holter electrocardiograph for 48 hours in the middle of that sequence.
Robonaut: Lindgren viewed an On-Board Training (OBT) video, and encountered communication issues with the robot.  The team was able to resolve the communication problems and proceeded with further Robonaut troubleshooting of recent signatures indicating power being removed from the robot’s main processors.  Lindgren removed the torso cover and swapped out the power supply card on the computer chassis.  After applying power to the robot, the new power supply showed a green LED indicating good power to the supply, but the red fault LED was lit and no power was flowing to the rest of the chassis.  Due to time constraints, further troubleshooting could not be done. Robonaut is a project under a Space Act agreement with General Motors, which plans to use Robonaut-related technology in future vehicle safety systems and manufacturing applications. Robonaut helps to advance development of robotic assistant and manufacturing technologies that improve worker health and safety inside factories. As part of the demonstration, Robonaut is also involved in several education and public outreach activities, connecting robotics and the space program to students and the general public on Earth.
Node 3 (N3) Inter-Module Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning: Yui cleaned the N3 Deck Forward IMV fan. This activity is expected to restore normal ventilation air flow in the Cupola and reduce noise produced by the IMV fan.
On-Board Training (OBT) Robotics On-Board Trainer (ROBoT): In preparation for HTV5 capture and berthing, the 3 USOS crew members completed another session of this training. In addition to self-study, they practiced a 30 meter approach and 2 Capture Point (CP)-hold runs.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sampling: On Saturday, Lindgren collected an ITCS fluid sample from the Lab.  Its Ortho-phthalaldehyde (OPA) biocide concentration was nominal.  Today, Kelly collected an ITCS fluid sample from the JEM.  Its OPA concentration was also nominal. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Conductivity Test: Today, Kelly tested the conductivity of water samples obtained from EMUs 3003 and 3010. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


HMS – vision check
HMS – Visual Testing Activity
Reconfig of SM [ ПхО]  and DC1 into initial post EVA/ r/g 9633
Vision Questionnaire
PILOT-T. Experiment Set up and Ops. r/g 9624
BLR48 – Measurements Start
OH – Tonometer Ops Test Configuration
Plant Rotation – Installation of Samples Into Fridge
Plant Rotation – Hardware set up
Ocular Health- Blood Pressure Measurement
POMS – Questionnaire  records
OH- Blood pressure Measurement – Assistance  
SPHERES – Batteries Charging
Ocular Health – Blood pressure Measurement (Subject)
OH- Blood pressure Measurement – Assistance
ВКС Laptops Antivirus Base Update / r/g8247
OH – Tonometry Measurement
OH – Tonometry Ops Test (Subject) 
OH – Tonometry Measurement
OH Tonometry Ops Test – (Subject)
FINEMOTOR – Experiment Run 
FINEMOTOR – Photography
ROBONAUT- Experiment procedure review and video Viewing
Post –Tonometry Stowage
24 Hour ECG Halter  Monitoring (Initiation ) / r/g9630
Crew Handover Conference
WRS – Recirculation  System Tank Filling 
Plant Rotation – Samples Preparation  
Day long registration of blood pressure (start)  r/g9631
Assemble kit with fixture for cavity (VOK), part 2
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops  r/g9625eu + 9625ru
Reconfiguration of SM [ПхО] and DC1 into initial post EVA / r/g9633
Water transfer (disinfectant solution)  from SM RODNIK БВ2 tank into ЕДВ r/g9636
OASIS- HD Replacement
ROBONAUT – Camcorder installation  
SPHERES – Batteries Replacement
Photography of removed [ГК2] pump in MRM1. / r/g9634
ROBONAUT – install camcorder in Lab
R2 – unpack equipment and its preparation for activation
Put IMV fan into safe configuration for cleaning (NODE starboard)
RR- retrieve samples from MELFI
In-flight maintenance. Cleaning of IMV system (NODE 3 starboard floor).
EMU- conductivity test
KONSTANTA-2.Retrieve cassette from [ТБУ-В] and place on panel  418 for 1 hour for warm-up / r/g9629
Filter Unit replacement (БФ) СО2 ИК0501
Greetings Video / r/g9635
R2-BACKPACK – Cycling
H/W Set up for  PAO
Crew’s Prep for PAO EVENT
KONSTANTA. Preparation and operations of the 6th run of experiment r/g9629
PAO
Samples Collection in ITCS  System in JEM
R2-BACKPACK – Cycling
R2 – review ops
ITCS –   Collected Samples Insertion
Switch over failed  [НПМ3] module to [НПМ1] / r/g9617
Private  Psychological  Conference
Tear down of charging device ЗУ-С [Aborted]
WRS – Recirculation  tank Filling   
TMI connector mating   НПМ1 to [БИТС2-12] / r/g9617
Failed  НПМ3 unit to be switched over  to  НПМ1 / r/g9617
PILOT-T. Experiment OPS r/g9627
IMS Data File Prep
HTV Arrival  OBT – session1
R2 – Deactivation and h/w Stowage  
Physical  Exercise data Dump   / r/g6797
HEMATOKRIT
PILOT-T Close out ops r/g9627
Installation of the Camera to feed signal to monitor 3 of LAB RWS.
SPHERES – Batteries  Changing
Cognition – Experiment ops
COGN –Experiment RUN and  Questionnaire 
USOS Shutters Closure
ВКС Laptops Antivirus scanning preparation  / r/g8247

Completed Task List Items

JAXA video take part 2
JLP stow/prep for HTV5
Wanted Poster-EPM CDL cable [In Work]
PIP label removal

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Ocular Health support
Robonaut ops
HTV OBT support
HTV Camera Calibration [In Work] 

