
SpaceX (SpX)-12 Capture and Berthing: SpX-12 rendezvous and capture were successfully completed today  at 5:54 AM CDT using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). The crew monitored Dragon’s approach from the Cupola Robotic Workstation. Vestibule outfitting, vehicle ingress and critical cargo transfer began following capture.
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 3:  The crew retrieved LMM Biophysics 3 Plate 1 from the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) and placed it into a Microgravity Experiment Research Locker / INcubator (MERLIN).  The LMM was placed in the FIR on Monday to begin the science run.  Using the three-dimensional structure of proteins, scientists can determine how they function and how they are involved in disease. Some proteins benefit from being crystallized in microgravity, where they can grow larger and with fewer imperfections. Access to crystals grown on the ISS supports research for a wide range of diseases, as well as microgravity-related problems such as radiation damage, bone loss and muscle atrophy. This investigation identifies which proteins would benefit from crystallization in space.
Food Acceptability:  The crew completed a Food Acceptability questionnaire for this investigation which seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI)-1 Anomaly:  Overnight during the crew sleep period, the Electronics Unit (EU) for MELFI-1 experienced an anomaly. Following crew wake, science samples were successfully relocated to alternate MELFI units without issue.  Ground teams are working a forward plan to replace the MELFI-1 EU with an on orbit spare.
NeuroMapping: The crew was unable to perform the Neuromapping assessments today due to a software fault that caused the laptop to lock up. Ground experts are investigating the anomaly.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Video recording for KOROLYOV TV channel
Soyuz 735 Samsung PC Battery check and recharge
Soyuz 736 Samsung PC Battery check and recharge
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
ECON-M. Observation and photography
Crew Command Panel (CCP) Cable Route and Checkout
Reminder ESA Nutritional Assessment
Reminder NeuroMapping
MELFI Transfer
USOS Window Shutter Close
On MCC Go Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Cartridge (start)
Acoustic Dosimeter Operations – Setup Dosimeter for Static Measurement
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
MORNING PREPARATION WORK
Updated EVA Timeline Review
Microscope (MS) Thermal Container Check
Robotic Workstation (RWS) High Definition (HD) Monitor Downlink
Photo/TV Ghost Camera in Cupola on SSC power recording
Robotics Workstation (RWS) Dragon Configuration
Dragon R Bar Approach
JEM Camera Robot Cable Swap
Cold Stowage Double Cold bag Unpack Review
Check to see that shutters are closed on windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14
Dragon R Bar Approach
Pistol Grip Tool Torque Analyzer Kit Data Collection
On MCC Go Purging Elektron-VM Liquid Unit (БЖ) after Shutdown
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Dragon Capture
Pre-EVA PILLE dosimeter data collection and deployment
Node 2 to Dragon Pressurization and Leak Check Equipment Pregather
Robotic Workstation (RWS) High Definition (HD) Monitor Deactivation
Ghost camera teardown in Cupola
Photo TV High Definition (HD) Dragon Video Setup
Combustion Integrated Rack Upper Rack Doors Open
Dust collectors ПФ1, ПФ2 – filter replacement, fans В1, В2 grille cleaning in DC1 (without replacement)
Fuel Oxidizer Reaction Products (FORP) KIT Prep 
Multi-Omics-Mouse Pre-experiment Transfer Familiarization 1
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold Bottle Replacement
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Rad Detector Relocate
Vacuum cleaning of КВД and КСД valve screens before EVA
Combustion Integrated Rack Upper Rack Doors Close
Orlan-MK No.6 Drink Bag Refill and Install
Orlan-MKS No.4 Drink Bag Refill and Install
ARED Platform Pip Pin Inspect and Secure
Advanced Space Experiment Processor Overview On-Board Training
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
NeuroMapping Experiment Neurocognitive Test – Subject [Aborted]
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Surface Sample Kit (SSK) Analysis (T+5)
On-orbit hearing assessment using EARQ
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
LMM Biophysics Plate Removal
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – ESA Nutritional Assessment
Crew Command Panel (CCP) Cable Deroute
Node 2 to Dragon Pressurization and Leak Check
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Close
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
Dragon Vestibule Outfitting
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
Node 2 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Removal
On MCC Go Regeneration Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Absorption Cartridge (end)

Completed Task List Activities

Rendezvous and Prox Ops Program (RPOP) Setup 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Dragon berthing and vestibule outfitting support
N2 CBM Bolt loading

