08-14-2010August 14, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/14/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew off duty.   Happy Birthday, Tracy!   At wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   The three Russian station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home.     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   As part of the uborka house cleaning, the crewmembers conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).   Fyodor Yurchikhin also performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.   FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson conducted the routine maintenance on the prime CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) unit (#1058), first replacing the battery, then zero-calibrating the instrument.    [The CSA-CP is a passive cabin atmosphere monitor that provides quick response capability during a combustion event (fire). Its collected data are stored on a logger. Following zero calibration, the prime unit was re-deployed at the SM Central Post.]   Caldwell-Dyson, Wheelock & Walker later joined up for a ~2-hr procedures review for the next contingency spacewalk, EVA-17, on Monday (8/16).   After FE-2 terminated the regeneration of METOX (Metal Oxide) canisters #16 & #19 in the A/L (Airlock) bake-out oven and restowed them in a bag (#1038), Tracy & Doug installed METOX cans #22 & #21 plus EMU batteries #2087 & #2086 in their EMUs (Extravehicular Mobility Units), 3005 (EV1) & 3009 (EV2), resp.  Tracy then also installed REBAs (Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies) #1008 & #1012 in the spacesuits.   A teleconference by Doug, Shannon & Tracy with EVA specialists at MCC-Houston wrapped up preps at ~12:10pm.   FE-6 Walker completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router, FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) and ISS FS laptops (required to mitigate the problem of iPV and OSTPV not opening up procedures due to a memory leak in the “Tomcat” software).  After a period of no less than 10 min later, Shannon also rebooted the two ISS network servers (SERVER1 & 2).   Walker filled out her weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   In preparation for EVA-17, Shannon charged the two batteries for the EVA D2Xs cameras.  About 3 hrs later, she configured the cameras for the spacewalk.   At ~6:10am EDT, the Russian crewmembers downlinked a Telebridge TV message showing crewmembers exercising in orbit, on the occasion of today’s Day of the Athlete in Russia.     [The history of the oldest sports festival began on August 16, 1939, when the decision of the Council of People's Commissars of the USSR established the Union Athlete’s Day.  During these years, physical education and sport that engulfed the country, resulted in the creation of numerous voluntary sports and sports societies, the adoption of the All-Union Physical Culture Complex "Ready for Labor and Defense of the USSR”, the development of the powerful “spartakiadnogo” movement which created a unique system of physical education of citizens.  Today’s downlink went to leaders of the Ministry of Sport, Tourism & Youth Policy of the Russian Federation, pupils junior sports school of Olympic reserve, and representatives of the media.]   Wheels completed the periodic inspection of the CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization), particularly its four isolators for their condition.      [“Corner 'A' Isolation Mount:  10 of 12 cables are attached, with 2 cables noticeably frayed; on the other side of the mount, adjacent to the CEVIS frame, there are 12 of 12 cables attached, with 1 cable frayed.  In corner 'A', 2 of the 12 cables are broken, and the ends taped.  Corner 'B' Isolation Mount:  On the side adjacent to the rack mount, there are 11 of 12 cables attached, with 3 cables frayed; on the other side of the mount, adjacent to the CEVIS frame, there are 12 of 12 cables attached, with 1 cable frayed.  In corner 'B', 1 of the 12 cables are broken, and the end taped.  Corner 'C' Isolation Mount:  On the side adjacent to the rack mount, there are 10 of 12 cables attached, with no cables noticeably frayed; on the other side of the mount, adjacent to the CEVIS frame, there are 12 of 12 cables attached, with 1 cable frayed.  In corner 'C', 2 of the 12 cables are broken, and the ends taped.  Corner 'D' Isolation Mount: On the side adjacent to the rack mount, there are 10 of 12 cables attached, with 2 cables frayed; on the other side of the mount, adjacent to the CEVIS frame, there are 12 of 12 cables attached, with 1 cable frayed.  In corner 'D', 2 of the 12 cables are broken, and the ends taped.  Photos were of all of the frayed cables and stored on SSC-15.”]   FE-4 also performed the periodic maintenance & visual inspection of the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), checking out VIS (Vibration Isolation & Stabilization) rails & rollers, and greasing the Y- and Z-axis rails & rollers.   The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]   At ~10:30am, Alex, Mikhail & Fyodor also engaged in a PAO phone interview via S-band with Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos Magazine and an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.     [“Mikhail, Fyodor, our last conference took place before your space walk.  Please, tell us about your impressions.”; “You can see everything from above.  What damage did fire cause to forestry?”;  “Now the smog almost dissipated, there are fewer fires; how many fires are still burning and in what regions?  How does this anti-cyclone, which caused so much misery, look like?”;  “Are there any changes in atmosphere?”;  “You, or rather the USOS, are also dealing with off-nominal situation, the cooling system has failed.  Did it somehow impact your life conditions?”;  “Your US colleagues have already carried out several EVAs to install the new pump.  What was your participation in these tasks?”;  “Please pass our happy birthday wishes to the intrepid Tracy Caldwell-Dyson on behalf of our magazine!!!”;  “Do you stay in radio contact with HAM radio operators?”  “Who are these people? What do you talk about with them?”  “Tell us about your plans for the next month.”]   CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4 & FE-6 were scheduled for their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Alex at ~7:15am, Shannon at ~1:50pm, Tracy at ~3:30pm, Wheels at ~5:00pm EDT.  ETCS Loop A PM (Pump Module) Update:     EVA-17 is currently planned for Monday, 8/16.  A Readiness Review is set for tomorrow, Sunday.  Objectives for EVA-17 will be to –  Install spare PM (Pump      Module) Installation Mate spare PM QDs      (Quick Disconnects)  Clean up spare      PM/S1/CETA (Crew & Equipment Translation Aid) cart Re-couple stbd &      port CETA carts Clean up SSRMS (e.g.,      remove APRF) for walkoff  Clean up tethers at S1      truss segment Install J612 extension      cable for ULF5/PMM (Pressurized Multipurpose Module) Cleanup/Ingress   Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Four -- Week 10)   2-D NANO Template (JAXA):     The experiment was started on 7/9.   3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    This ISS backup radiation monitoring system remains non-operational.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.   BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    CBEF Rotor replacement was performed on 7/27-28.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.   CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    Hardware installed.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    Currently DECLIC is OFF. The next run will start on 8/27 and run for 15 days.    DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Active Measure, ESA):    Impacted by ETCS cooling loop shut down, science data acquisition is currently not possible.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA): (Kids in Space):   No report.   EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    Photo session was performed on 7/22.  . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    No report.  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  Ferulate:    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):   No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.   HAIR (JAXA):   1st sampling session for Wheelock and Walker was performed on 7/15.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating but images cannot be downlinked since the Ethernet link was turned off following the ETCS pump module failure.  Images are stored onboard and once the Ethernet link is turned on any stored images can be downlinked.  Currently 1505 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    No report.   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:     No report.   KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Acquiring science data.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    8th run was performed on 7/15-716.  . MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Acquiring science data.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is still operating at reduced bandwidth until PEP R9 software patch is uploaded to the Payload MDM.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.   MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    First carousel (6 samples) was successfully completed ahead of schedule. The carousel change-out is planned in the coming days.    MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   No report.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.   NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADIAK:   No report.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    PCRF maintenance will be performed on 7/29-30.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   "Tracy, Wheels and Shannon, thank you for continuing to participate in Reaction Self Test!   Tracy and Wheels, we truly appreciate you taking time to complete Reaction Self Test around the EVAs. One of the specific aims of Reaction Self Test is to evaluate the extent to which Reaction Self Test is sensitive to fatigue from work intensity on ISS missions. EVAs offer a chance to assess this aim. Thank you again! "  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    PCRF checkout was performed on 7/29-30 (see PCRF).   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    CBEF Rotor replacement was performed on 7/27-28.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Survival Mode.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Shannon:  Thank you for your assistance with the HRF PC this past week.  Your help was invaluable in enabling us to successfully downlink the Actiwatch files from the monthly download.”  SMILES (JAXA):    Survival Mode.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   Impacted by ETCS cooling loop shut down, science data acquisition is currently not possible.  Sun Observation window #31 would have ended on 8/12.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.    Space-DRUMS:    No report.    SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):    “Wheels: Thank you for re-routing the power connections after the ETCS cooling loop shutdown. This restored data acquisition.”  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    Acquiring data. Commissioning part II was nominally completed on 7/16.  VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   "Through 8/10 the ground has received a total of 2,619 frames of E-24 CEO imagery for review and cataloging.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following targets with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists:    Aral Sea – excellent series of frames – now under evaluation for requirements completion; Volga River Delta, Caspian Sea, Russia – long series – unfortunately the focus for all was too soft for use; Baku, Azerbaijan – very nice session with sun glint enhancement of water features – requirement for this target are complete; Edwards Plateau, Land-use –  four sessions with four different cameras in use – under evaluation; and Dead Sea, Israel – good mapping session – under evaluation for requirements completion.  One of your views of the Gulf of Mexico Oil spill was published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  Your nearly cloud-free photo with the enhancement of sun glint dramatically depicts the encroachment of oil sheen on the South Pass, a major distributary of the Mississippi River Delta system.  Very nice shot!”   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Mt. Kilimanjaro, Tanzania (looking nadir for this famous volcano - clouds may be present along the lower flanks but the summit is typically clear.  Of particular interest are the small glaciers located at the summit.  These glaciers have been receding dramatically over the past century, and have been predicted to disappear completely by 2020.  Detailed imagery of the summit will help document changes in the extent of the glaciers and snow cover), Kwanza Basin (general views were requested, looking just right of track, to document a thin string of new developments [infrastructure such as main roads, power lines, and settlements along the roads] between the capital city, Luanda, and new oilfields inland.  Critical features were acquired if the crew shot just right of track with overlapping images.  The rationale behind imaging this site is to document planned and unplanned changes in the Luanda–oilfields corridor developing between the coastal capital city, Luanda, and the new oilfields to the NE.  Few usable images have yet been acquired, mainly due to the presence of continuous equatorial clouds), Cape Town, South Africa (looking left of track.  Images of the margins of greater Cape Town were requested for mapping purposes.  Cape Town has experienced enormous sprawl eastwards onto the Cape Flats where very extensive shanty towns have developed.  There has been a progressive immigration not only from other parts of South Africa, but from many countries in Africa south of the Sahara), Nassau, Bahamas (looking slightly right of track.  Nassau is the capital and largest city in the Bahamas.  The city has a population of 260,000 (2008) and contains nearly 80% of the entire population of the Bahamas.  The CEO image of this city will help to fill in the capitals of the world in the CEO database), Brasilia, Brazil (looking slightly right of track.  The city can be difficult to identify as it lies within an extensive agricultural landscape and neighboring cities.  However, two main visual cues are the lake on the shores of which the new Brazilian capital was built in 1960 [Lago Paranoá], and the dark, vegetated landscape of the nearby national park.  In detail, the swept wings of the “bird-shaped” layout are unique), and Lake Poopo, Bolivia (looking nadir for this lake.  Lake levels in Poopo are generally affected by El Niño episodes with water levels declining during ENSO (El Niño Southern Oscillation) events.  ISS imagery will also add to the existing CEO time series imagery of the fluctuations of lake levels in Poopo).  