
Payloads:
Butterfly IQ USND: The crew set up the appropriate hardware and performed the fifth medical technology demonstration of the Butterfly Ultrasound Device. Butterfly IQ Ultrasound demonstrates the effectiveness of a portable ultrasound device used in conjunction with a mobile computing device in the space environment. Such commercial off-the-shelf technology could provide important medical capabilities for future exploration missions beyond low-Earth orbit. The investigation also examines the effectiveness of just-in-time instructions for autonomous use of the device by the crew.
Iceberg Drawer Troubleshooting: In an attempt to prevent noise from a location where it has previously been reported, the EXPRESS rack 4 lower utility drawer was pushed all the way into the rack. Iceberg is a Double Locker equivalent designed for EXPRESS Rack operation and provides additional cold stowage resources aboard the ISS. The units provide an operating range of +4°C to -95°C.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-22 (J-SSOD-22): The crew observed the ground-commanded deployment of three satellites (TUMnanoSAT, FUTABA, and HSU-SAT1) that are part of the J-SSOD-22 mission. J-SSOD provides a novel and safe small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD is installed, including satellite cases with small satellites onto the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) by crew members, it is passed through the JEM Airlock for retrieval, positioning, and deployment by the JEMRMS.
Lumina: The Lumina hardware was power-cycled and data was transferred to an iPad for downlink.  Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina) is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Thermal Amine Scrubber: Two carbon dioxide (CO2) samples and one relative humidity sample was obtained for the Thermal Amine CO2 effluent. The Thermal Amine Scrubber tests a method to remove CO2 from the air aboard ISS, using actively heated and cooled amine beds. Controlling CO2 levels on the station reduces the likelihood of crew members experiencing symptoms of CO2 buildup, which include fatigue, headache, breathing difficulties, strained eyes, and itchy skin. The system includes elements that reduce loss of water vapor, and recover CO2 for use in electrolysis to produce oxygen.
Systems:
JEM Remote Sensor Unit (RSU) Battery Remove and Replace: The crew replaced AA Batteries in several of the JEM Wireless Instrumentation System (WIS) Environmental Monitor RSUs. The RSUs store data collected from tri-axial accelerometers and strain gauges in non-volatile memory, which is then downloaded to the External WIS (EWIS) Network Communication Unit (NCU) and the LS1 server for downlink.
Treadmill 2 (T2) SSC Adapter Connection: The crew installed a USB to GigE Adapter on the T2 SSC to provide a wired connection to both the T2 Command Logic Unit (CLU) and the JSL network. T2 interfaces with the ISS Operation Local Area Network (Ops LAN) via an SSC to download exercise data and the upload of prescription information and software updates.
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 54 Preparations: The crew continued preparation activities for the upcoming RS EVA 54, by inspecting the Retractable Equipment Tether (RET) inspection. Each RET must be inspected for damaged cords and then placed in a protective bag to isolate the RETs from potential damage until ready for EVA use. The RETs were transferred from the USOS to the RS for use during the Russian EVA on Wednesday, August 17.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) status Monitoring
Command and Control Software (CCS) Service Module Central Computer (SMCC) Data Dump
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) 2 Half Cycles
Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) Mode Change & Sample Support

