
Payloads
Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP): The crew removed the Handhold Experiment Platform adapter from the MPEP and then removed the MPEP from the JEM Airlock slide table. Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform provides the structural backbone for deployers when being transferred to the outside via the Kibo airlock and grasped by the JRMS robotic arm.
ISS HAM: The crew initiated a HAM contact with Kopernik Observatory & Science Center in Vestal, NY.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Systems
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Preventative Maintenance: Today, the crew installed the spare TOCA in the LAB to perform a functional checkout.  The crew also installed a new Waste Water Bag (WWB) and Buffer Container Packet. The buffer container from the prime TOCA was moved to the backup TOCA, and a new buffer container was installed into the prime TOCA. The checkout is performed every two years to ensure functionality of the TOCA in the event of a failure with the prime unit. The buffer container is also replaced every 47 samples or two years. The crew confirmed there was no evidence of a leak in the spare TOCA.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Remove and Replace (R&R):  Today, the crew performed a changeout of the Regenerative ECLSS recycle tank as part of routine operations. Recycle tanks are reusable bladders that hold resultant brine following waste processing from the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA). The recycle tank is replaced every six months as part of preventive maintenance to ensure continued performance and preclude a functional failure.
Completed Task List Activities:

PCS Laptop Relocate
USOS Isolation Gather (on-going)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


IAS Russian Comm Config for MRM Ops
CDRA fan speed increase to build margin prior to isolation
Shell heater configuration for module isolation
REGEN Recycle Tank Ground Support

