08-11-2010August 11, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/11/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Stage EVA-16 by FE-4 Douglas Wheelock & FE-2 Tracy Caldwell-Dyson was completed successfully in 7hr 26min, fully accomplishing its objective of removing the failed ETCS (External Thermal Control System) Loop A PM (Pump Module) and setting the stage for EVA-17, tentatively to be scheduled on 8/15 (Sunday).  During the spacewalk, Wheelock (EV1) & Caldwell-Dyson (EV2), supported by FE-5 Fyodor Yurchikhin as IV (intravehicular crewmember) plus FE-6 Shannon Walker & CDR Alex Skvortsov on the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System), –  Relocated the Stbd CETA (Crew & Equipment Translation Aid) cart – EV2Closed & demated the M3 QD (Quick Disconnect) – EV1 (hurrah, no leakage!)Removed five electrical connectors on the failed PM – EV2Broke torque on all four attachment bolts of the failed PM – EV1Closed & removed the M2 QD – EV2Released 5 electrical cables & 3 (of 4) bolts of the old PM – EV2Retrieved AGB (Adjustable Grapple Bar) from ESP-2 (External Stowage Platform 2) – EV1Attached AGB on failed PM – EV1/EV2Removed failed PM from S1 truss and stowed it on POA (Payload ORU Accommodation) on the MT (Mobile Transporter) at WS2 (Worksite 2) – EV1/EV2Transferred the C/L (Crewlock) bag to ESP-2 adjacent to the A/L (Airlock) – EV2Removed 3 electrical cables on the spare PM on ESP-2Re-covered the spare PM with MLI (Multi-Layered Insulation) blanketCleaned up & ingressed.  (Good news:  Since the M3 QD showed no NH3 leakage upon closing (except for a few “snowflakes”), closure of both the M1/F55 (Male 1/Female 55) QD at the S1 DDCU (DC-to-DC-Converter Unit) near the S1-to-S3 segment interface and the M1/F105 QD at the S1-to-S0 interface became unnecessary, as well as line venting - most likely due to the overnight reduction of the internal loop pressure to saturation pressure).  [EV1 & EV2 began their “campout” last night in the U.S. Airlock (A/L) with hatch closure and depressurization of the Crewlock (CL) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe.  Following the usual hygiene break/with mask prebreathe for Caldwell-Dyson & Wheelock at ~3:35am-4:45am (about one hour later than planned due to the late bedtime for crew and ground teams last night), the A/L hatch was closed again by Shannon Walker & Fyodor Yurchikhin for EVA preps in 10.2 psi, followed by EMU purge (~6:15am-6:30am) and prebreathe in the EMUs (~6:30am-7:20am).  Afterwards, with CL depressurization and EV1/EV2 switching to suit power, EVA-16 began at 8:27am EDT.  It ended at 3:53pm, lasting 7h 26 min.  It was the 149th spacewalk for ISS assembly & maintenance, the 13th this year, and the 241st  for US astronauts, with a total time of 937 hrs 4 min.]  Before the EVA, FE-6 Walker –  Completed the IV (Intravehicular) portion of the EVA “inhibit pad”, i.e., the list of temporary external deactivations in support of the EVA,Set up the RWS (Robotic Workstation) and DOUG (Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) peripherals with the SSC-8 (Station Support Computer 8) T61p laptop, to support SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) ops, andOperated the SSRMS, “flying” Douglas Wheelock during the EVA.   During the spacewalk, CDR Skvortsov assisted Walker on the SSRMS, and FE-5 Yurchikhin worked with her, supporting the Campout, prebreathe, EVA prep, EVA inhibit pad ops & post-EVA activities.  Yurchikhin also configured the internal STTS communications connections for the EVA and afterwards reconfigured the STTS.  At wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspected the filters before bedtime this morning, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also at wake-up, Alexander Skvortsov terminated his 10th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  Kornienko worked in the US Lab, modifying the OGS (Oxygen Generation System) secondary power cable to restore power to DDCU S02B loads/users if required.  The modified jumper will be used between the Lab1O6 position and one of the payload racks as power source (from the 1/4 solar array channel).  Afterwards, Mikhail Kornienko had another 2h5m for transferring excessed hardware and trash to the Progress M-06M/38P cargo ship for disposal, based on an uplinked preliminary list of 127 items.    [38P undocking is scheduled on 9/7.]  Other activities completed by Kornienko included –   The daily IMS (Inventory management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur), andThe periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways   [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PrK–Progress, DC1–Progress, PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment) – RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]  Skvortsov meanwhile completed the periodic transfer of condensate water to an RS (Russian Segment) EDV container for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen & (waste) hydrogen, filling the designated KOV (condensate water) EDV container from a CWC (Contingency Water Container).  When filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the Elektron’s BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.]  Later, Alex also performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Yurchikhin conducted another deployment of four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies in the Lab (at bay P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307) for two days, to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.     [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]  Fyodor also collected air samples with the GSC (Grab Sample Container) in the SM, Lab & Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), using three regular samplers and two mini-GSCs.     [GSC #1079 – SM; GSC #1073 – LAB; GSC #1020, plus mini GSCs #2018 & #2020 – JPM.]  At about the same time, Alex performed air sampling, using two Russian AK-1M absorbers in the SM & FGB, an AK-1M-F sampler in the SM for Freon, and IPD-CO Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the SM cabin air for CO (Carbon Monoxide).  The samplers were stowed for subsequent return to Earth.  FE-3 Kornienko conducted his 9th data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.     [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]  Working in the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment), FE-6 Walker configured it for using an internal EDV-U container as reception tank, until the current RFTA is replaced with a new unit.  After assisting in post-EVA activities, Shannon Walker also –  Downlinked the spacewalk camera imagery,Inspected the EMU gloves and downlinked glove photographs for analysis, andRestowed the ammonia masks and NH3 decontamination kit in the FGB.  Before their sleeptime, Caldwell-Dyson & Wheelock were to complete another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, today only once.     [The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  At ~3:25pm EDT, the three Russian crewmembers downlinked PAO/TV messages of greetings and congratulations to two events – (1) the 100th Anniversary celebration of the famous Kachin Flight School (formerly known as Sevastopol Officer Aviation School), and (2) the Freshmen Class of M.V. Lomonosov Moscow State University.    [Kachin, the world’s first military pilot school (lovingly called Kacha by aviators) has brought forth pilots which created aviation units that essentially served as a foundation for Russia’s Air Force.  Many Kachi alumni became distinguished military pilots, test pilots, and cosmonauts.  Hundreds of Kachin alumni became Cavaliers of St. George Order, Heroes of the Soviet Union and Russia; twelve Kachin members became Heroes of the Soviet Union twice, and one, Marshal of Aviation Alexander Ivanovich Pokryshkin, three times.  At Lomonosov, the school year for the freshmen begins on 9/1.  “Dear Freshmen, our close-knit crew is sending the greetings from our space home to you on the First of September holiday.  After graduating high school you were accepted into the best university of our country.  Your trials and hard work were rewarded: You are the students of the first university of Russia…”]  After ingress, FE-2 & FE-4 will have their standard post-EVA PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Tracy at ~3:50pm, Wheels at ~4:07pm EDT.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Smoke in European Russia (Dynamic event.  Hundreds of fires on the European plains have given rise to major smoke palls visible from the Black Sea area looking left [north], well off track, towards the limb.  The smoke has evolved a marked front, or margin, between clearer air (to the east) and smokier air [to the west].  Looking for this margin, and any land features which might have been visible under the clearer air mass.  Lower illumination and oblique view angles—as in this target—enhance aerosol imaging.  A smoke-pall margin and land features greatly assist image location and interpretation.  An earlier view of satellite imaging of the smoke palls comes from the TOMS instrument), Toshka Lakes, Egypt (looking left and right of track near nadir to document water levels in the new lakes of the Toshka system of southern Egypt), Maseru, Lesotho (looking left on the well defined international border, north of the marked angle in the border), and N. Gulf of Mexico—new storm and oil slick (Dynamic events.  Looking left for the new storm which has crossed into the northeastern part of the Gulf.  The storm was expected to be better organized [more circular pattern of cloud] by the time of this pass.  Sunglint [also left and forward of track] may have allowed documentation of oil sheen on the water surface, between cloud masses).  