08-16-2010August 16, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/16/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Underway: Week 11 of Increment 24.  Stage EVA-17 by FE-4 Doug Wheelock & FE-2 Tracy Caldwell-Dyson was completed successfully in 7hr 20min, fully accomplishing its objective of installing the spare ETCS (External Thermal Control System) Loop A PM (Pump Module) plus additional tasks.  The PM has been checked out and is functioning nominally.  Loop A will be fully in service later this week.  This was the third contingency spacewalk to replace the Loop A ammonia pump.  During the excursion, Wheelock (EV1) & Caldwell-Dyson (EV2), supported by FE-5 Fyodor Yurchikhin as IV (intravehicular crewmember) plus FE-6 Shannon Walker & CDR Alex Skvortsov on the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System), –  Installed the spare PM (Pump Module) mechanicallyMated & opened associated fluid QDs (Quick Disconnects)Successfully performed electrical & data continuity checks plus bump-start test (by MCC-H, verifying pump functionality)Re-coupled the stbd & port CETA cartsCleaned up spare PM/S1/CETA (Crew & Equipment Translation Aid) cartCleaned up the SSRMS by removing the APRF (Articulated Portable Foot Restraint) to enable SSRMS walkoffInstalled the J612 extension cable for ULF5/PMM (Pressurized Multipurpose Module)Cleaned up tethers at S1 truss segmentConfigured the CETA cart to allow for WS8 (Worksite 8) ops, andCleaned up/Ingressed.  [EV1 & EV2 began their “campout” last night in the U.S. Airlock (A/L) with hatch closure and depressurization of the Crewlock (CL) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi at ~3:55pm for 70 min of mask prebreathe with oxygen.  Following the usual hygiene break/with mask prebreathe for Caldwell-Dyson & Wheelock this morning at ~2:35am-3:45am, the A/L hatch was closed again by Walker & Yurchikhin for EVA preps in 10.2 psi, followed by EMU purge and prebreathe in the EMUs.  Afterwards, with CL depressurization and EV1/EV2 switching to suit power, EVA-17 began at 6:20am EDT, ~35 min ahead of timeline.  It ended at 1:40pm, lasting 7h 20 min.  It was the 150th spacewalk for ISS assembly & maintenance, the 14th this year, and the 242nd for US astronauts, with a total time of 944 hrs 24 min.]  Before the EVA, FE-6 Walker –  Verified closure of protective window shutters in Lab, Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and Node-3 Cupola,Completed the IV (Intravehicular) portion of the EVA “inhibit pad”, i.e., the list of temporary external deactivations in support of the EVA,Set up the Lab RWS (Robotic Workstation) and DOUG (Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) peripherals with the SSC-8 (Station Support Computer 8) T61p laptop, to support SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) ops, andOperated the SSRMS, “flying” Douglas Wheelock during the EVA.   During the spacewalk, CDR Skvortsov assisted Walker on the SSRMS, and FE-5 Yurchikhin worked with her in supporting the Campout, prebreathe, EVA prep, EVA inhibit pad ops & post-EVA activities.  Yurchikhin also configured the internal RS (Russian Segment) STTS communications connections for the EVA.  After ingress from the spacewalk, Tracy, Wheels, Fyodor & Shannon completed initial post-EVA activities in the A/L (Airlock), including –  Doffing backpacks, harnesses, tethers and EMUs (Extravehicular Mobility Units),  Inspecting & taking photography of the EMU  gloves,Taking some photos of broken threads on the MLI (Multi-Layer Insulation) of the SCU (Service & Cooling Umbilical) connector of Tracy’s spacesuit,Deconfiguring the A/L after the spacewalk,  Reconfiguring STTS communications in the RS,Downlinking spacewalk camera imagery,Downlinking the glove photographs for analysis, andRestowing the ammonia masks & NH3 decontamination kit in the FGB.  Earlier, at wake-up, Alex Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Alex, Mikhail & Fyodor started out with the periodic pre-breakfast session of the Russian biomedical routine assessment PZEh-MO-7/Calf Volume Measurement protocol.     [MO-7 Calf measurements (left leg only) are taken with the IZOG device, a custom-sewn fabric cuff that fits over the calf, using the knee and lower foot as fixed reference pints, to provide a rough index of deconditioning in zero-G and effectiveness of countermeasures. ]  Skvortsov made preparations for tomorrow’s scheduled periodic GKM window inspection & photography in the SM (Service Module).     [Purpose of the activity is to assess the condition of the glasses in windows № 6, 7, 8, 9, 12 in regards of their deterioration as compared to the data from the previous expeditions (new caverns, scratches, spots or blotches which affect the transparency of the glasses, or the growth of old deficiencies), and to take photography of any deficiencies in the window glasses.]   Alex & Mikhail jointly performed the periodic/long-term inspection of the SM RO (Working Compartment)’s pressure shell and ring, looking for any moisture, deposits, mold, corrosion and pitting behind panels 130, 131, 134, 135, 138, 139 and also underneath the TVIS treadmill (where deposit was discovered in the past) and the cold plates (where SNT and STR lines are installed).  Last time done: 3/1/10.    [The inspection of the hull surface, which is coated with a primer and dark-green enamel, is done using cleaning napkins to wipe the area in question if required and reporting results to the ground.  The hull inspection looks for changed color and cavities; if cavities are found, they are to be measured for depth (with chewing gum) after cleaning.  Digital photographs of the shell before and after the removal of deposits were to be made for documentation.]  FE-3 Kornienko was also occupied with a number of other activities which included –  Inserting dried sample trays into MELFI 3 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 3), after removal of extra icebricks & used desiccant/humidity cards, and performing a swap between MELFI 1 Dewar 1 and MELFI 3 Dewar 1; the MELFI1 Dewar 1 Trays were left out to dry  [there were a total of eight -32 degC icebricks and four each Humidity Cards and Desiccants],Collecting water samples from the BRP-M (Modified Water Distribution & Heating Unit) in the SM, after flushing out its TEPL warm port valve several times with water from an EDV container and catching it in a second EDV, then drawing the samples in two drink bags for return to Earth,Preparing the equipment for tomorrow’s sampling of KAV condensate water samples from the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor (water recovery system) upstream of the FGS gas/liquid mixture filter/separator in the SM,Completing the periodic cleaning of the screen of the BVN air heater fan assembly in the Orbital Module (BO) of the Soyuz TMA-19/23S crew return vehicle, docked at the MRM1 port,Performing periodic service of the RS radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), setting up new Bubble dosimeters for recording radiation traces, initializing & deploying the detectors and verifying proper function of the setup with the LULIN-5 electronics box.  [A total of eight Bubble dosimeter detectors (A21-A28) were initialized in the Bubble dosimeter reader in the SM and positioned at their exposure locations, three in the spherical “Phantom” unit on the DC1 panel and five in the SM (two in starboard crew cabin on both sides of the MOSFET (metal oxide semiconductor field-effect transistor) dosimeter detector unit, two under the work table, and one at panel 410.  The deployment locations of the detectors were photo-documented with the NIKON D2X camera and also reported to TsUP via log sheet via OCA.  The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls],Conducting the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur), andCompleting the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Besides supporting the two spacewalkers before & after the EVA, FE-5 Yurchikhin charged the NIKON D2X camera battery and then took measurements & Earth photography with the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging experiment at SM window 9, targeting specific photo/video  observation sites.  Afterwards, Fyodor spent time in the MRM2 Poisk module with the bioscience experiment ASEPTIC (BTKh-39), collecting surface and air samples from the Russian Glavboks-S (Glovebox S) for stowage in the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic refrigerator, set at +37 degC.    [Purpose: to check on sterility conditions 12 days after Glavboks sterilization.]  Later today, FE-2 & FE-4 will have their standard post-EVA PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Tracy at ~3:15pm, Wheels at ~4:25pm EDT.  Before their sleeptime, Caldwell-Dyson & Wheelock will also complete another session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, today only once to evaluate the extent to which the test is sensitive to fatigue from work intensity.     [The sequence includes testing twice on the day before the EVA and once at the end of EVA day.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  The Russian crewmembers worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).  No (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  