08-13-2009August 13, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/13/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Upon wakeup, FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Kopra, FE-4 Thirsk & FE-5 DeWinne continued their new session of the SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight) experiment, logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Also at wakeup, Roman Romanenko terminated his fifth experiment session for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]   Before breakfast & exercise, CDR Padalka, FE-2 Kopra & FE-4 Thirsk each completed a 10-min session with the periodic Russian MedOps test "Hematokrit" (MO-10), which measures the red cell count of the blood, with one of them acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer, Russian: “Examiner”).  It was the third session for the three of them.     [The blood samples were drawn from a finger with a perforator lancet, then centrifuged in two microcapillary tubes in the M-1100 kit's minicentrifuge, and its hematocrit value was read off the tubes with a magnifying glass.  It is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell count (normal range: 30-45%) tends to go down over time.  After the exam, the data were saved in the IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), and Romanenko stowed the equipment.]   FE-1 Barratt completed Day 6 of Session 1 his daily diet monitoring for the SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) experiment entailing a series of diet intake loggings, body mass measurements and blood & urine samplings in two session blocks.  Today, Mike finished up with measurements and sampling of body mass, blood (with PCBA/Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer), and urine, begun two days ago.  Samples were stowed in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  The SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) equipment was stowed away temporarily.   [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Mike will have to eat special diet (Session 1: High salt diet which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level and Session 2: Low salt diet).  Solo Diet starts with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are being logged on sheets stowed in the PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer) Consumable Kit in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  SOLO, an ESA/German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD.  Blood samples are taken with the PCBA.  Background:  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 & MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]   Frank DeWinne downloaded the ICV CDP (Integrated Cardiovascular Cardiopres) data collected by Bob Thirsk earlier this week to the Cardiolab computer in the EPM (European Physiology Module) rack and transferred it to the HRF (Human Research Facility) PC1 for downlink via a USB thumb drive.   Bob Thirsk’s FD75 activities of the ICV protocol of Ambulatory Monitoring concluded today when he took off the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) and Actiwatches and downloaded the data to the HRF PC1.  [Those data and the CDP data transferred by Frank were to be downlinked after the download is complete.]   FE-3 Romanenko continued his major SOTR Thermal Control System outfitting IFM (Inflight Maintenance) in the SM (Service Module), removing old SMOK condensate lines and replacing them with new spares (last time done: September 2008).    [Today Roman completed Part 3, replacing condensate line components between the SK1 valve assembly and connector K-G3 of the SRV-K2M condensate water processor.  More to follow tomorrow.  The R&R involves about 20 flexible hoses (SMOK) and line components.]   Romanenko terminated charging of the batteries for the Kelvin-Video and TTM-2 (Thermoanemometer-Thermometer 2) of the BAR/EXPERT experiment, and began taking measurements behind panels 225, 228, 229А, 230 in the SM.    [Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  The payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss anemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]   The FE-3 serviced the RS radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), setting up new Bubble dosimeters for recording radiation traces, initializing & deploying the detectors and verifying proper function of the setup with the LULIN-5 electronics box.    [A total of eight Bubble dosimeter detectors (A01-A08) were initialized in the Bubble dosimeter reader in the SM and positioned at their exposure locations, three in the spherical “Phantom” unit on the DC1 panel and five in the SM (two in starboard crew cabin on both sides of the MOSFET (metal oxide semiconductor field-effect transistor) dosimeter detector unit, two under the work table, and one at panel 410).  The deployment locations of the detectors were photo-documented with the NIKON D2X camera and also reported to TsUP via log sheet via OCA.  The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls.]     FE-1 Barratt checked up on IFM (Inflight Maintenance) hardware, verifying the availability of two Gamah plugs and two Gamah caps to be used for the CHeCS AAA (Crew Health Care System Avionics Air Assembly) scavenge scheduled for 8/21.   Mike Barratt, as Subject, undertook the PFE (Periodic Fitness Evaluation) protocol, a monthly 1.5-hr. procedure which checks up on blood pressure and electrocardiogram (ECG) during programmed exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer in the US Lab.  Readings were taken with the BP/ECG (blood pressure/electrocardiograph) and the HRM (heart rate monitor) watch with its radio transmitter.   Bob Thirsk acted as Operator/CMO.    [BP/ECG provides automated noninvasive systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements while also monitoring and displaying accurate heart rates on a continual basis at rest and during exercise.]   DeWinne & Thirsk assisted each other in relocating the CHeCS Rack from the US Lab to the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).   The FE-4 completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Collapsible Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week.      CDR Padalka & FE-1 Barratt reviewed the video taken during the last RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) photo/video training session.   [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the Shuttle (STS-128/17A).  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on the Orbiter, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]   Romanenko set up the hardware for the new Russian geophysics experiment DZZ-12 Rusalka near SM window #14 and charged its battery for tomorrow’s session, while Padalka took documentary photography.   Barratt installed an IWIS (Internal Wireless Integrated System) accelerometer and RSU (Remote Sensor Unit) in the JAXA JPM.   Mike Barratt continued replenishing the Icepacs in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) by inserting two more +4C Icepac belts into MELFI.   [The Icepacs were originally removed as part of 2J/A packing.  Nine additional activities spaced at least 24 hours apart are being planned over the next two weeks, each time inserting two Icepac belts (to prevent temperature increase inside the MELFI.]   After configuring the Lab camcorder to provide a field-of-view of his activities FE-5 DeWinne continued his work on the FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility), borrowing an ELC (EXPRESS Rack Laptop Computer) from EXPRESS Rack 5 and connect it to CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack). He then used the ELC to restore the boot parameters on the MDCA (Multi-user Drop Combustion Apparatus) Avionics Package.  Afterwards, Frank returned the ELC to ER-5.    [For restoring the default boot parameters, he and the CIR ground team at POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center) took turns sending commands to either the CIR or the MDCA Avionics Package.]   With the US OGS (Oxygen Generator System) currently down, Gennady Padalka in the course of the day ignited two more end-of-life SFOG (Solid Fuel Oxygen Generator) “candles” in the RS (Russian Segment).   Also, yesterday the Elektron O2 generator was activated by TsUP-Moscow based on agreements with NASA specialists.    The RS has successfully upgraded to SM software Vers. 08.03.  The TsVM Central Computer and TVM Terminal computers were restarted nominally.  Today, Gennady also upgraded Laptop 1 (RS3) of KTsP1 (Central Post Computer 1) to Vers. 08.03 and checked out the machine afterwards.   Mike Barratt & Tim Kopra filled out their regular weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC.    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   The CDR completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Gennady also did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   Mike undertook the periodic maintenance & visual inspection of the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) and its VIS (Vibration Isolation System) guide rails & rollers, greasing the Y- and Z-axis rails & rollers and also evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration.   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).    Later, Tim Kopra transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  