
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: Four Actiwatches were connected to the Human Research Facility-1 (HRF-1) rack for data download and charging. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Astrobee: The perching arm that was used to support the Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4 rehearsal was removed from the Astrobee flyer (Bumble). Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. These robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, and logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): The gas tube was reconnected to the JWRS hardware. The demonstration of JWRS generates potable water from urine. In the past, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard. However, for long-term space missions, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions. 
Life Science Glovebox (LSG): Attempts were made to locate the 8″ large LSG Sleeves reported missing. The LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crewmembers can work in LSG simultaneously.
Plant Habitat-03B: CO2 bottle serial number (S/N) 204 was opened in position 2 and S/N 203 closed in position 1. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food and air and water purification in life support systems on future space missions. 
Payload On-Orbit Still Shots for Utilization and Maintenance (POSSUM): Follow-up photos were taken of the station configuration based on photos taken on GMT 195. POSSUM is the periodic photography of the current NASA rack placement and configuration.
Project EAGLE: Hardware was gathered for upcoming Project EAGLE operations. Culturing human cardiomyocytes, or heart cells, holds potential for disease modelling and drug discovery. In microgravity, cardiac cells can grow into 3D cultures that have better structural maturation compared with 2D cultures grown on Earth. ISS: Engineering Stem Cell-Derived Cardiac Microtissues with Metabolic Regulators in Space to Promote Cardiomyocyte Maturation (Project EAGLE) grows 3D cultures of cardiomyocytes that could provide a better model of heart disease and improve assessment of therapeutic measures.
Sidekick: The Sidekick hardware was charged and configured for future use during Treadmill 2 (T2) maintenance. Crewmembers on the ISS have plenty of devices and reference guides to help them complete tasks, but none is as immersive and simple to use as the new Sidekick tool. Sidekick: Investigating Immersive Visualization Capabilities (Sidekick) is a hands-free, wearable remote assistance system that enables high-definition 3D holograms mixed with real-time views, enabling new ways to communicate and work. Sidekick improves efficiency for crew tasks such as science experiments, maintenance, and operations on the ISS.
StemCellEX-H Pathfinder: Harvesting operations were performed on BioCells samples A, B, and C, which were placed into Iceberg-2 cold stowage. Hematopoietic Stem Cell Expansion in Space: Pathfinder Investigation (StemCellEX-H Pathfinder) tests methods for producing human hematopoietic stem cells in space. Hematopoietic stem cells give rise to blood and immune cells and have potential as treatments for patients with blood diseases and cancers. Producing them in space could lead to the ability to produce greater numbers of stem cells with superior attributes for clinical use than currently possible on the ground.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules-Microgravity-synthesized Graphene Aerogels (SUBSA-ugGA): Ampoule sample #6 was installed into the SUBSA thermal chamber. Examination of the Multi-physical Properties of Microgravity-synthesized Graphene Aerogels (SUBSA-ugGA) seeks to create a graphene aerogel on the ISS. Microgravity is expected to alleviate effects of Earth’s gravity, such as agglomeration, sedimentation, and thermal convection, and enable production of a superior, uniform material structure. This research could lay the groundwork for the engineering of bulk quantities of graphene aerogel with exceptional physical properties for applications in power storage, environmental protection, and chemical sensing.
Z-Camera Virtual Reality (ZCAM VR) Livestream: A crew conference was performed with ZCAM VR Livestream payload developers (PDs) in preparation for upcoming operations. Felix & Paul Studios (FPS) ZCAM VR Livestream demonstrates livestreaming of 360-degree virtual reality video from the ISS to audiences on the ground. The project uses hardware that recorded 4K immersive video and audio for “Space Explorers: ISS Experience,” adding new software capabilities and an expanded ground segment. The VR livestream provides people on the ground the opportunity to immerse themselves in the world of crewmembers on the orbiting lab.
Systems:
Airlock Stowage Platform (ASP) Equipment Restow: Today, the crew concluded a multi-day operation to replace the ASP with the new Airlock Overhead Stowage Platform. The crew inspected the Airlock Port, Cygnus, and Lab Aft hatches after the old ASP was transferred from the Airlock to the Cygnus NG-19 cargo vehicle for disposal on Tuesday. After completing the hatch seal inspections, the crew then restowed temporarily displaced stowage back in the Airlock and configured Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) to swap transfer from the High Pressure O2 High Pressure Gas Tank (HPGT) to the low pressure O2 HPGT.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) Exam: The crew used the ultrasound device to perform a VTE scan. This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams.
JEM Wireless Instrumentation System (WIS) Air Flow Sensor Correction for Remote Sensor Unit (RSU) B1: The crew performed a power cycle, battery reinstallation, and reconnection of JEM WIS Air Flow Sensor 220mm for JEM WIS RSU B1 S/N 1003 at JLP1FS2. The JEM WIS environmental monitoring function consists of the Cabin Advanced Network Apparatus (CANA) and the JEM Cabin Access Point (J-CAP). The CANA acquires JEM cabin environmental data utilizing wireless sensors like this RSU.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SPDM BDT Test
MSS Powerup & Powerdown
Lab CDRA Deactivation
JEMRMS/NREP Operations [Planned]

