
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)5 Capture/Berthing: Yui and Lindgren captured HTV5 using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) at 5:29 am CDT this morning.  Next the Robotics Ground Controllers used the SSRMS to maneuver the HTV5 into position to support the inspection of the HTV5 Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) and then maneuvered the HTV5 to and install it on the Node-2 Nadir Active CBM at approximately 8:44 am CST. Kelly and Lindgren then performed the CBM capture/Abolt, vestibule pressurization and outfitting parts 1 and 2. The Robotic Ground Controllers have ungrappled the HTV5 and maneuvered the SSRMS to grapple the HTV5 External Platform (EP).  Robotic Ground Controllers have reconfigured the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) from the Hot Backup Configuration to a nominal operations configuration and powered down the MSS.  Overnight Robotics Ground Controllers will extract the EP from the HTV and handoff to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (RMS).  Tomorrow morning the crew will perform Vestibule Outfitting part 3, CPA removal and ingress.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: 

Kelly and Kornienko performed their morning and pre-sleep Reaction Self Tests.  This week-long session is in advance of the sleep shift required for the 42 Soyuz relocation later this week.  Reaction Self-Test helps crewmembers objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, extravehicular activity, and residual sedation from sleep medications).
Kelly and Kornienko are performing a week of sleep logging.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness. It examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.

 
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) LAD62B-A RPC 12 (Lab CDRA ASV) Trip: Over the weekend the RPCM LAD62B-A that provides power to the Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Air Selector Valves (ASV) tripped multiple times. This RPCM was replaced on 24-July-2015. This is the first time the RPC 12 has tripped since the RPCM was replaced. RPC 12 has been tripping intermittently since April 1, 2014 while the Lab CDRA is ‘On’ or in ‘Standby’. The replacement of the RPCM was to remove a leg of the fault tree. RPC 12 has been closed and Lab CDRA is currently in standby. It is available for use as needed.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Self-Reaction Test. Historical Documentation Photos
Self-Reaction Test. Reaction Time Test (morning)
Self-Reaction Test. Photo Documentation
МО-8. Configuration Setup
Body Mass Measurement
RWS Configuration Setup
МО-8. Closeout Ops
PCS Verification
Closing USOS Window Shutters
Acoustic Dosimeter Setup
HD Camcorder Set-up
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Cupola Crew Restraint (CCR) Installation
HTV Approach Monitoring
Conference with Search and Rescue Team (ГПСК)
Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
Collecting condensate water samples from СРВ-К2М before Gas-Liquid Mixture Filter (ФГС) into Russian Samplers – start r/g 9695
Photography in MRM1 for КЛ-108/109Ц digital unit installation feasibility assessment / r/g 9694
UDOD. Experiment Ops. / r/g 9688
HTV Approach Monitoring
Hardware prepack for return and disposal on ТК 716 / r/g 9646
Surface samples from SM equipment and structures / r/g 9686
SSRMS HTV Grapple
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Power up
Node 2 – Port CBM Pre-mate Status Verification
Soyuz 716 Sokol Suit Leak Check
HAM radio session from Columbus
Video downlink from LAB (end)
CALET H/W setup for video acquisition
Sokol Suit Drying – Set up Suits 1 and 2 for Drying [Aborted]
HTV – Hardware Command Panel (HCP) Inhibit and Stow
Node 2 CBM – Capture and Acquire Bolts
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Video of greetings r/g 9696
Removal of Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS)
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Relocate cargo items from unauthorized RS stowage locations  r/g 9687
Connecting TV Camera КЛ-153М to MRM1 TVS / r/g 9693
Condensate tank dump  to CWC (end)
Testing MPEG-2 TV Transmission via Ku-band
HTV/N2 –  Vestibule Pressurization and Leak Check
Terminate Drying Suits 1, 2 [Aborted]
Start Drying the 3rd Space suit and Set Up the 1st t Pair of Gloves for Drying [Aborted]
FS – Urine Collection Hardware Setup
ARED – Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 11. / r/g 9685
Finish drying the first pair of gloves and start drying the second pair [Aborted]
Node 2 Nadir/HTV Vestibule Outfitting, Part 1
Exercise Data Downlink / r/g 6797
Terminate drying the second pair of gloves [Aborted]
SOZh maintenance
RWS Cupola Crew Restraint (CCR) Removal
WRM – Water Consumption Balance, place holder
Photo of SM window 2 exterior after EVA-41 cleaning / r/g 9703
Finish drying the 3rd suit, start drying the 3rd pair of gloves [Aborted]
Thermolab – Instrumentation Ops for Circadian Rhythms
Terminate drying the 3rd pair of gloves [Aborted]
Stow suits and gloves after drying [Aborted]
БМП Ф1 Absorption Cartridge Regeneration (end)
Self-Reaction Test. Reaction Time Test (evening)

 
Completed Task List Items

Air quality survey
COL ziplock stow
P/TV external inspection from JEM
Short Duran Mission prep: generic gather, MOBIPV gather, P/TV gather, video gather

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HTV5 capture/berthing

 
