
Progress 85P Launch: Tuesday evening at 8:08 PM CDT, 85P launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome carrying food, fuel, and supplies to the ISS. An automated docking to the ISS Service Module aft docking port is planned to occur on Thursday, August 24th at approximately 10:50 PM CDT after completing a 34-orbit rendezvous.
Port Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ) Trundle Bearing (TB) Anomaly: Today, the Port SARJ TB #7 experienced a primary bearing seizure and stopped rotating. The Flight Control Team parked the Port SARJ in a safe position at 75 degrees to minimize rotations using the secondary journal bearing following the TB failure. This position is acceptable for near-term power balance requirements and 85P docking. The team is assessing the forward plan to update the Port SARJ position for Crew-7 docking and to recover the TB. The secondary bearing can provide full functionality; however, is only certified for 30 days of continuous operation.
Payloads:
Gambit Installation into the NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL): Gambit hardware was installed into NRAL and NRAL orientation labels were applied.  The objective of Gambit is to evaluate and catalog performance of the NRAL external sites. Gambit will be moved to all six external NRAL sites throughout the course of the investigation, and various sensors measure temperature, vibrations, and radiation to characterize each site. Results could support design and development of future science investigations that use these sites.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham contact was made with STEMforGIRLS, St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Space Acceleration Measurement System-II (SAMS-II): SAMS Sensor for KEyence Research MIcroscope Testbed (KERMIT) was relocated from Mission Science Research Rack (MSRR-1) to EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 6. SAMS-II is an on-going study of the small forces (vibrations and accelerations) on the ISS resulting from the operation of hardware, crew activities, dockings, and maneuvering. Results generalize the types of vibrations affecting vibration-sensitive experiments and structural life of ISS. Investigators and structural analysts seek to better understand the vibration environment on the ISS using SAMS-II data and assessment of station loads and dynamics.
Project EAGLE: Inoculations and media exchange was performed on BioCell samples S/N 01 and 02. Culturing human cardiomyocytes or heart cells holds potential for disease modelling and drug discovery. In microgravity, cardiac cells can grow into 3D cultures that have better structural maturation compared with 2D cultures grown on Earth. ISS: Engineering Stem Cell-Derived Cardiac Microtissues with Metabolic Regulators in Space to Promote Cardiomyocyte Maturation (Project EAGLE) grows 3D cultures of cardiomyocytes that could provide a better model of heart disease and improve assessment of therapeutic measures.
Systems:
Crew Quarters Cleaning: In preparation for Crew-6 departure, the crew cleaned the intake and exhaust ducts, fans, and airflow sensors in the Port crew quarters. Due to the large amounts of dust seen during previous crew quarter cleanings, the crew removed all relevant panels, temporarily stowed them, and then cleaned all areas at once.
Crew Dragon Endeavour Suit Checkouts: The Endeavour Crew performed a checkout of their Crew Dragon suits to confirm suit fit and operability prior to departure from ISS. The crew first donned their suits, open, closed, and re-opened their helmet visors, and checked all zippers. Following this suit check, the crew doffed their suits and checked their earpieces using Crew Dragon Endeavour audio. Finally, the crew visually inspected their suits for any foreign object debris (FOD) or damage. Crew Dragon Endeavour is planned to undock after a direct handover with the upcoming Crew-7 mission.
Endeavour Crew Departure Preparation: The Endeavour crew was allotted time to prepare for their departure and the arrival of Crew-7. During this time, the crew prepared personal items for return and performed cleaning, stowage, and inventory tasks. Stowage was removed from Crew Alternate Sleep Accommodation (CASA) to be used for Woody Hoburg’s sleep location during the Crew-6/Crew-7 direct handover.
Maintenance Work Area (MWA) Utility Kit Audit: The crew performed an audit of the contents of the MWA utility kit for ground tracking and future logistics. Results of the audit will help ground to determine what replenishment is necessary for future Maintenance.
Completed Task List Activities:

Imagery Transfer Tool Troubleshooting

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Airlock, Node 2, and Node 3 CCAA Fan Speed Test for Humidity Control
Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Small Fine Arm (SFA) Grapple, Extract, and maneuver to overnight park
MSS Walk-off from Node 2 to Lab
EPS Commanding for Port SARJ Bearing Anomaly

