
Payloads:
Engineering Stem Cell-Derived Cardiac Microtissues with Metabolic Regulators in Space to Promote Cardiomyocyte Maturation (Project EAGLE): The crew performed the final preservation session. During the operations, several internal membranes were ruptured, but it’s believed the ground teams can still harvest the cells they need for the experiment. Culturing human cardiomyocytes or heart cells holds potential for disease modelling and drug discovery. In microgravity, cardiac cells can grow into 3D cultures that have better structural maturation compared with 2D cultures grown on Earth. Project EAGLE grows 3D cultures of cardiomyocytes that could provide a better model of heart disease and improve assessment of therapeutic measures.
Fluids Integrated Rack/Flow Boiling and Condensation Experiment/Condensation Module for Heat Transfer (FIR/FBCE/CM-HT): In response to cable connection issues experienced last week, the crew reclocked the connector on a CM-HT data cable. FBCE seeks to validate a model for flow boiling critical heat flux (CHF) and develop an integrated two-phase flow boiling and condensation facility for the ISS. Data from microgravity and the ground are compared to determine the influence of various forces and processes needed for gravity-independent flow boiling and condensation. CM-HT is a Test Module Assembly that performs measurements of flow condensation heat transfer. Results could support development of boilers and heat exchangers that work in both microgravity and partial gravity.
Fluid Science Laboratory/Soft Matter Dynamics (FSL/SMD): Two Foam-Coarsening experiment samples were swapped to different positions. SMD is currently supporting the Foam Coarsening investigation.  Foam Coarsening looks at bubble size and rearrangement dynamics for “wet foams”, where microgravity conditions are essential to study rearrangement phenomena, such as coarsening and coalescence, disentangled from drainage.
Microgravity Research for Versatile Investigations (MaRVIn): The MaRVIn facility and Microgravity Research for Versatile Investigations-Phase Change in Mixtures (PCIM) experiment hardware were installed in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). MaRVIn is an experiment processing system for operating scientific and commercial investigations in microgravity. Sample processing from zero to over 1000°C is supported. The first experiment to use the facility is PCIM, which examines the distribution of vapor and liquid within a wickless heat pipe system.
Nanoracks Module-48 (Mod-48): Video and photo documentation was performed on Mod-48 and its contents in the Cupola. Nanoracks Module-48 seeks to increase interest in the space environment as it is difficult to provide students with access to space. For this investigation, student photos and messages may be sent up as printed material or as files on a USB drive. Additionally, plant seeds may be flown.  The students plant the seeds once they return to Earth and compare them to plants grown from regular seeds. Through this experiment, students can touch and feel close to space.
Secure Laser Communications between ISS and Ground Station (SeCRETS):  The SeCRETS hardware and EFU Adapter 1 were attached to the JEM Airlock slide table. They will later be passed through the JEM Airlock and installed at the designated external location. JAXA’s SeCRETS is a project that demonstrates secret key (random number) sharing by a physical layer cryptographic protocol using optical communication between outer space and the ground. Random numbers sent from a transmitter aboard the ISS are downlinked in the free-space optical communication path and received by a detector installed at a ground station on Earth. Free-space optical communication from outer space enables key sharing between points farther than key distribution using fiber optics.
Zero T2: An Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) exercise session was performed on the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED). Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, and aerobic rowing and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill there is no means of ambulating or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking and therefore the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of no treadmill usage during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance, which is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Systems:
ISS Crew Handover and Adaptation: Over the weekend, the experienced Endeavour Crew and 69S Crew started a handover with the newly arrived Endurance Crew to transfer knowledge of the intricacies of onboard equipment and working in microgravity. The newly arrived crewmembers executed activities while the experienced crewmembers provided oversight and assistance.
Crew-6 Endeavour Departure Preparations: The Endeavour crew was allotted time to prepare for their departure. During this time, the crew prepared personal items for return and performed cleaning, stowage, and inventory tasks. Crew-6 undocking is currently scheduled for Saturday with splashdown on Sunday.
ARED Quarterly Inspection: Today, the ISS crew completed regularly scheduled maintenance on the ARED Vibration Isolation System (VIS) Rails and Rollers, Upper Stop Cables, and X-Rotation Dashpots. The crew also provided feedback on ARED performance while the ARED Lift Bar was moving between Lower Stops and Upper Stops. This quarterly maintenance allows the ARED exercise device to keep operating nominally as well as verifying if any wear and tear exists on the hardware.
Transfer Cargo Operations: The crew continued transferring cargo from Crew-7 Dragon to the ISS. Crew also reviewed the Cygnus NG-19 cargo operations products prior to a cargo operations conference. NG-19 is planned to remain at the space station until the end of October before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

NRAL Berth to Node 3 [Monday Night]
JEM Airlock Depressurization and Vent
JEMRMS Activation [Planned]
Mobile Transporter (MT) Translation from Work Site 6 to Work Site 4

