
Payloads
Astroporter: The crew set up the work area and worked with the Astrobee ground team in conducting science for the Astroporter Mass Property Learner.  Astroporter is a suite of software that enables collaborative behavior between multiple robots in space, including algorithms for handling changes in mass properties of free-flying systems as they collaborate in the transport of cargo.  The primary objective is to enable Astrobee to serve as a cargo tug for large objects as part of a roadmap for in-space servicing, and to allow use of the Astrobee facility to validate control strategies for future efforts.
Blob:  The crew set up the experiment hardware and injected water to hydrate the slime mold and begin the experiment.  The goal of the Blob investigation is to observe the influence of microgravity on the Blob’s (a unicellular organism whose scientific name is Physarum polycephalum) behavior when it explores its environment or when it eats. A ground experiment takes place in schools and the results are compared against the results of the International Space Station conclusions. The final goal is to motivate students from France and other European Space Agency (ESA) Member States to study the Biological sciences.
Using Water Bears to Identify Biological Countermeasures to Stress during Multigenerational (Cell Science-04):  The crew injected algae into the CS-04 experiment bioreactors.  The tardigrades in the experiment use algae as a food source.  The tardigrade (water bear) is the model organism for studying biological survival under the most extreme environmental stress conditions on Earth and in space.  The objective of the Cell Science-04 investigation is to characterize the molecular biology of short term and multigenerational survival in the space environment by identifying genes that are required for adaptation and survival in high stress environments.  The findings from this study can be applied to understanding the stress factors of humans in the space environment, and identification of countermeasures.
Immersive Exercise:  The crew performed troubleshooting (t/s) for the wireless Virtual Reality (VR) headset used in the experiment.  In this t/s session, the crew powered the VR headset, and checked for drift and flickering with and without the forward cameras covered.  Following the t/s, the crew reported the flicker and drift occurred with and without the cameras covered.  The ground team will assess further t/s steps.  The Immersive Exercise project focuses on the development of a VR environment for biking sessions aboard the ISS. The VR equipment is interfaced with the current bicycle exerciser aboard the ISS, Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS), located in the United States “Destiny” Laboratory Module.
Manufacturing Device (ManD): The crew removed and stowed the ManD feedstock, extruder and print tray, and then installed the extruder and tray insert needed for the Redwire Regolith Print (RRP) experiment.  RRP demonstrates 3D printing with regolith feedstock material in microgravity using the Made In Space Manufacturing Device currently aboard the International Space Station. This demonstration could help determine the feasibility of using resources available on planetary bodies as the raw materials for on-demand construction of housing and other structures. This capability reduces the amount of materials needed on future exploration missions, thus reducing launch mass.
Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones): The crew set up the appropriate hardware, located and marked measurement points on the body, and performed an experiment session with the Myotones device.  Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g. muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth, as well as for future space missions.
Nanoracks Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD): Using the Maintenance Work Area (MWA), the crew disassembled and stowed the empty NRCSD Triple Deployer components.  NRCSD is a stackable, modular, ground loaded launch case. Each NRCSD accommodates up to six launch cases.  NRCSD is passed through the JEM Airlock, and manipulated robotically for to the satellite deployment position.
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems BioScience-12 (STaARS BS-12): The crew placed the STaARS experiment container shells and cryotube Kit into the STaARS-1 Experiment Facility.  Novel Protein Aggregation/degradation Studies in the Unique ISS Environment Provide Mechanistic Insights Relevant to Biopharmaceutical Development and Degenerative Diseases (STaARS BioScience-12) examines protein folding and aggregation under the unique stresses of space, including microgravity- and cosmic radiation-dependent folding and degradation and the combination of these factors. Biopharmaceuticals play a significant role in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of human diseases, but a challenge in making them is the instability and degradation of their proteins. This investigation may help develop new strategies to prevent protein degradation and support design of therapeutic biopharmaceuticals.
Systems
Deck Airlock Stowage Platform (ASP) Install:  Earlier today, the crew installed the new ASP in the Airlock Deck 1 location. The crew adjusted the platform to align with adjacent closeout panels, installed deck hampers, and deck access doors. The new ASP was designed to replace the existing stowage bin and increase stowage capability.
Joint Station LAN (JSL) Cable Test: The crew performed a connection test of JSL Ethernet cables between LAB, SM, and MLM. This test was required prior to the installation of this cable, planned during an upcoming Russian EVA. 
Robotic Operations: Yesterday (GMT 237), the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to the Mobile Base System (MBS) Power & Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF 2). The SSRMS was then walked off to the MBS PDGF 1. Following that, the SSRMS unstowed the SPDM and maneuvered to park for tomorrow`s Mobile Transporter (MT) translation. Later tonight Robotics Ground Controllers will be installing the Z-Cam on the JEMAL slide table.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MT Translation [Planned]
JEMAL Slide Table extend [Planned]
Z-Cam install on JEMAL slide table [Planned]
JEMAL Slide table retract [Planned]

