
Payloads
Phospho-Aging:  The crew took blood and urine samples in support of the Phospho-Aging investigation.  Phospho-aging Mechanism of Accelerated Aging Under Microgravity (Phospho-aging) examines the molecular mechanism behind aging-like symptoms, such as bone loss and muscle atrophy, that occur more rapidly in microgravity. Using analysis of human premature-aging syndromes (progeria) in mouse models, scientists identified calciprotein particles (CPPs) as a pro-aging factor in mammals. CPPs behave like a pathogen, inducing chronic inflammation and systemic tissue damage that could be the mechanism behind accelerated aging in space.
Ring Sheared Drop: The crew removed the processed sample syringe and installed a new syringe.  The Ring Sheared Drop investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid.  Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues; amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s.  Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
Time Perception: The crew set up the appropriate hardware and participated in the Time Perception science sessions. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time perception in microgravity is also fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. The Time Perception in Microgravity experiment quantifies the subjective changes in time perception in humans during and after long-duration exposure to microgravity.
Systems
Deck Airlock Stowage Platform (ASP) Install: Today, the crew completed installing the new ASP in the Airlock Deck location.  Today’s steps including installing the closeout panels, reconfiguring the Airlock UOP and transferring stowage into the new ASP.This week the crew replaced the old Airlock deck stowage bins with the new ASP, increasing the stowage capability by approximately 10 CTBE.
Hatch Seal Inspection: The crew cleaned and inspected the N1 Aft, Port, Starboard, Forward, Nadir and Cygnus hatches, hatch plate sealing surface and crank handles for damage or foreign object debris (FOD) following the transfer of the Airlock closeout panels during the ASP install activities.
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustible Products (CSA-CP) Extended Maintenance: Today, the crew replaced the battery packs in all CSA-CPs and calibrated the units.  The CSA-CP provides real-time readings following a combustion event and subsequent clean-up efforts. The CSA-CP are also used for continuous monitoring of carbon monoxide levels in the ISS.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEM Airlock Repress [Planned]

