
SpaceX-9 Dragon Pack: In preparation for SpX-9 return this Friday the crew completed the following:

Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) to Polar Sample Transfer: Samples were transferred from the MELFI to the Polars.
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL) CO2 Controller Removal: SABL-1’s CO2 Incubator Controller was removed for return on SpaceX-9.
SPHERES Blue Satellite: The CO2 tank in the SPHERES blue satellite was removed, vented, and packed.
Meteor Hard Drive Retrieval: The Meteor Laptop hard drive was retrieved.

Mouse Epigenetics Habitat Cage Unit Maintenance:  The Mouse Cage Units containing the mice were transferred from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) to the glove box to conduct food cartridge exchanges and cleaning activities. The crew also performed troubleshooting activities on the Transportation Cage Units (TCU) by performing individual cover replacements, cage block replacements, and TCU exchanges to prepare for return on SpX-9. The Mouse Cage Units were then returned to CBEF.  The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space, and also examines changes in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space. 
Biomolecule Sequencer Surface Pro 3 Hardware Checkout: The crew set up and connected Surface Pro 3 tablets to the wireless network before completing checkout activities to support upcoming Biomolecule Sequencer operations later this week. The Biomolecule Sequencer investigation seeks to demonstrate for the first time that DNA sequencing is feasible in an orbiting spacecraft. A space-based DNA sequencer could identify microbes, diagnose diseases and understand crew member health and potentially help detect DNA-based life elsewhere in the solar system.
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet was completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation. This investigation is critical during long-duration space missions, particularly those skills needed to interact with technologies required in next-generation space vehicles, spacesuits, and habitats. The crewmember’s fine motor skills are also necessary for performing tasks in transit or on a planetary surface, such as information access, just-in-time training, subsystem maintenance, and medical treatment. 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of life onboard ISS, providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need. 
Dose Tracker: The crew completed entries for medication tracking on an iPad today. This investigation documents the medication usage of crewmembers before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
Columbus Payload Power Switching Box (PPSB) – SDX Switch 1 Reconfiguration: The crew reconfigured the SDX 1 switch on the PPSB1 for RapidScat in Columbus in preparation for tomorrow’s 63P reboost.
Columbus Power Distribution Unit 1 (PDU-1) Troubleshooting: On Monday, ground teams were unable to repower the COL’s PDU-1  Outlet 3 which provides operational power to RapidScat and Solar Monitoring Observatory (SOLAR) payloads.  Today, ground teams successfully repowered SOLAR from Outlet 3 by turning OFF the Columbus Payload Power Switching Box (PPSB) – SDX switch 1 to isolate RapidScat from the power feed.  RapidScat has active heater power and can remain deactivated with no impact to hardware.  Ground teams continue to investigate the anomaly.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last night Robotics Ground Controllers stowed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture #2 (PDGF2). At the end of rigidizing its Latching End Effector (LEE) on MBS PDGF2, the SPDM safed, which has been observed previously. Controllers performed the necessary recovery steps and latched and mated the SPDM LEE to the PDGF. The SSRMS was then maneuvered to grapple the SpX-9 Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) in preparation of the SpX-9 release on Friday.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

MO-8 Body mass measurement Configuration Setup
Body Mass Measurement  r/g 3165
МО-8. Closeout Ops
MORZE. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake / r/g 3167
Virus Definition File Update on Auxiliary Computer System (ВКС) Laptops
Conference of Search and Rescue (ГПСК) specialists with returning crew
DRAGON. Transfers
WRS Sample Collection
Fine Motor Skills (FINEMOTR) Experiment Ops
Measuring top and bottom plate connection in SM (panels 225, 226) r/g 3171
PILOT-T. Preparation for the experiment r/g 3159
DRAGON. Transfers
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops r/g 3159
Photo/TV, Camcorder Activation Check
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ-СВ. for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
TOCA Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
DUBRAVA. Observation and photography using VSS / r/g 3176
WRS Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
Water Processing using MCD
СОЖ Maintenance
Procedure review for sample transfer from MELFI to POLAR
ARED Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
Sample Transfer from MELFI to POLAR
Photo/TV, Camcorder Activation Check
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops r/g 3163
Relocate Double Coldbags for access to Dragon Lithium Hydroxide (LiOH) Enclosure
HABIT Preparing for the experiment
Dragon Lithium Hydroxide Filter Bag Remove and Replace
SP3 Hardware Checkout
PILOT-T. Photography of the Experiment Ops / r/g 3161
Photo/TV, Camcorder Activation Check
Software Update installation on RSS1 Laptop for BRI Diagnostics r/g 3169
PILOT-T. Closeout Ops r/g 3163
SPHERES Battery Replacement
MOUSE Hardware Setup
PAO Hardware Setup
MORZE. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake / r/g 3167
On MCC Go Transfer of urine from RS ЕДВ-У U and USOS brine to Progress 433 (DC1) r/g 3164
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: SUPOS Test
Preparation for diagnostics of FGB Power Supply System Devices r/g 3168
Crew Prep for PAO
XF305 Camcorder Settings Adjustment
MOUSE Habitat Cage Unit Cleaning
PAO Event
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Check Ethernet interface cable routing between МКСД and АСП r/g 3166
RS internal lighting system audit (SM, MRM1, MRM2, DC1) / r/g 3009
TOCA Data Recording
Gathering Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) and Vestibule Outfitting Kit Equipment
ISS-HAM Radio Session
Mouse Epigenetics.  Habitat Cage Unit Cleaning 5 and Food Exchange in Glovebox
Photo/TV, Camcorder Activation Check
DRAGON. Transfers
Mouse Epigenetics. Habitat Cage Unit Cleaning 5 
Photo/TV, Camcorder Activation Check
Plant RNA Regulation/European Modular Cultivation System  Onboard Training (OBT)
Video Footage of Greetings / r/g 3175
CONTENT. Experiment Ops / r/g 3160
MORZE. Experiment setup / r/g 3170
Photo/TV, Camcorder Activation Check
IMS Delta File Prep
Polar Transfer Review
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
USOS Window Shutter Close
Closing window 6,8,9,12,13,14 shutters/ r/g 6965
MORZE. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake / r/g 3167
SPLANH. Diet Restrictions Reminder /  r/g 3162

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Maritime payload ops
Nominal ground commanding

