
Progress 83P Undock: Sunday afternoon, the Russian Cargo Vehicle Progress 83P, which provided cargo and propellant to the ISS, undocked from the Service Module (SM) Aft port at 6:50 PM CDT. Following departure from the ISS, the vehicle’s thrusters fired to maneuver 83P into a deorbit trajectory to send it into the Earth’s atmosphere where it burned up during re-entry. 83P undock opens up the SM Aft port for 85P, which is planned to launch on Tuesday at 8:08 PM CDT and dock to SM Aft on Thursday at 10:50 PM CDT.
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device- Kinematics (ARED-K): The ARED-K Acquisition Unit in Node 3 was powered on to verify ground connectivity and data was retrieved from flash drive for downlink. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the ISS.
Microbial Aerosol Tethering on Innovative Surfaces in the ISS-3 (MATISS-3): MATISS-3 holders S/N 1 and 2 were uninstalled and stowed. Bacteria are a big problem in space as they tend to build up in the constantly-recycled atmosphere of the ISS. The main objective of the MATISS experiment is to find better materials with which to build a space station or spacecraft, which is especially important for longer missions farther from Earth. Researchers will also monitor how bacteria form biofilms that protect them from cleaning agents and help them adhere to surfaces.
NanoRacks Module-105: Module-105 was removed from the NanoRacks Mainframe and stowed. Spacepharma NanoRacks – SPNR1 has two experiments, CUTISS and SuperSonic. CUTISS tests DenovoSkin, a bio-engineered human skin graft material to treat wounds in space, potentially benefitting reconstructive medicine on Earth. SuperSonic evaluates the impact of space radiation and proliferation of reactive oxygen species on human skin and tests whether an antioxidant, Co-Enzyme Q10 (CoQ10), provides protection from these risks.
Neuronix: Neuronix hardware was setup in the Life Science Glovebox (LSG) and the BioCells were thawed, centrifuged, and inoculated and re-inserted back into Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory-1 (SABL-1) facility. Innovative Paralysis Therapy Enabling Neuroregeneration (Neuronix) demonstrates the formation of three-dimensional (3D) neuronal cell cultures in microgravity and tests a neuron-specific gene therapy.
Rhodium Space Microgreens: Space chambers S/Ns 0032-003 were prepared and transferred into Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS-1 (MELFI-1) cold stowage facility. Swinburne Youth Space Innovation Challenge 2022: Examining the Growth of Nutritious Microgreens in a Microgravity Environment (Rhodium Space Microgreens) examines the effect of microgravity on germination rates. Microgreens have peak nutritional value during early growth phases. Microgravity has been shown to alter plant growth rates, which may affect the timing of germination. Results could support the use of microgreens as part of a healthy diet for crew members on future space missions and also improve microgreen production on Earth.
Space Organogenesis: The CBEF-L centrifuge turn table frame was uninstalled from the CBEF-L facility and the sample tray was installed in preparation for upcoming Space Organogenesis operations. The Development of Advanced 3D Organ Culture System Utilizing the Microgravity Environment (Space Organogenesis) investigation demonstrates growth of organ buds from human stem cells in 3D cultures in microgravity. Researchers plan to use these cultures to observe growth of the organ buds and analyze changes in gene expression. Cell culture on Earth needs supportive materials or forces to achieve 3D growth, but in microgravity cell cultures likely can expand into three dimensions without those devices.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules-Microgravity-synthesized Graphene Aerogels (SUBSA-ugGA): Ampoule sample #8 was installed into the SUBSA thermal chamber. SUBSA-ugGA seeks to create a graphene aerogel on the ISS. Microgravity is expected to alleviate effects of Earth’s gravity, such as agglomeration, sedimentation, and thermal convection, and enable production of a superior, uniform material structure. This research could lay the groundwork for the engineering of bulk quantities of graphene aerogel with exceptional physical properties for applications in power storage, environmental protection, and chemical sensing.
Systems:
Crew-6 Dragon Thermal Protection System (TPS) Inspection: Robotics Ground Controllers are surveying the TPS of the Crew-6 Dragon using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). The survey began this morning and is planned to conclude this evening. TPS inspections are performed on returning vehicles prior to undock from the ISS to ensure the vehicle is in a good configuration for re-entry. 
Crew Quarters Cleaning: In preparation for Crew-6 departure, the crew cleaned the intake and exhaust ducts, fans, and airflow sensors in the Deck crew quarters. Due to the large amounts of dust seen during previous crew quarter cleanings, the crew removed all relevant panels, temporarily stowed them, and then cleaned all areas at once.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): As part of routine maintenance, the crew R&Red the WHC UR and IF. After the R&R, the crew cleaned the power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance activities.
Crew Dragon Departure Preparations: The Endeavour crew continued preparations for their departure and the arrival of Crew-7. The crew reviewed On Board Training (OBT) for Dragon nominal departure and deorbit, prepared personal items for return, and performed cleaning, stowage, and inventory tasks.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

TPS Inspection of the Crew-6 Vehicle [On-going]
MSS Powerup
ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain Support
C2V2 ACOs

