08-22-2010August 22, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/22/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Sunday –  crew off duty.   Ahead: Week 12 of Increment 24.   At wake-up, Fyodor Yurchikhin performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   Upon wake-up, FE-6 Walker continued her 4-day session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) after the urine pH spot test, her 3rd onboard run, with the final controlled diet and diet logging tonight at ~6:45pm (8 hrs prior to her morning blood draw).  Photo documentation is part of the activity.     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 4 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]   Shannon then started her new (FD60) 24-hr urine collections of the Generic HRF (Human Research Facility) urine sampling protocol.      [Based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV (International Procedures Viewer) capabilities, the generic blood & urine procedures were created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]   Before sleeptime, Walker will also break out and set up the equipment for her blood sample collection, scheduled tomorrow.     [The operational products for blood & urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]   Rescheduled from yesterday, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson began her third (FD120) Nutrition/Repository/Pro K generic blood collection, with FE-3 Kornienko assisting with the phlebotomy as operator.  Tracy then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).      [The operational products for Blood & Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]   For Douglas Wheelock, it was the 3rd day of his 3rd session with the Pro K protocol after the urine pH spot test.   Later, Wheels set up the equipment for his next 24-hour urine collections of the Generic HRF  urine sampling protocol, scheduled for tomorrow.   Caldwell-Dyson, Wheelock & Walker continued their current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 3rd for Doug & Shannon, 7th for Tracy, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   CDR Skvortsov performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Alex also checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.     Jobs listed for Skvortsov & Kornienko today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –  Another ~30-min. run of      the GFI-8      "Uragan"      (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera      photography with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, shooting large glaciers of      the South Patagonia ice field (in nadir) A ~30-min. session for      Russia's EKON      Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial      photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X      camera with the RSK-1      laptop, and A ~15-min. photography      session for the DZZ-13      “Seiner”      ocean observation program, obtaining NIKON D3 photos with Nikkor 80-200 mm      lens and the SONY HD video camcorder on oceanic water blooms in the      South-West Atlantic area, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.    The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but is regularly being done after the last T2 session of the day.]   No TVIS treadmill or CEVIS cycle ergometer sessions were conducted today.   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  