
Lung Tissue:  The crew took samples and fixed media in Tissue Bags. They then inserted the bags in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Lung Tissue investigation uses the microgravity environment of space to test strategies for growing new lung tissue. Using the latest bioengineering techniques, the Lung Tissue experiment cultures different types of lung cells in controlled conditions onboard the ISS. The cells are grown in a specialized framework that supplies them with critical growth factors so that scientists can observe how gravity affects growth and specialization as cells become new lung tissue.
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems (STaARS) Intraterrestrial Fungus (iFUNGUS): The crew removed 2 sample bags from a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) and inserted them in the STaARS facility for incubation times of 8 and 11 hours, respectively.  The bags were later removed and stored in a MELFI. The crew repeated the above steps for 2 more sample bags but for incubation times of 18 and 23 hours.  STaARS-iFUNGUS cultures a rare type of fungus in the microgravity environment of space to support the search for new antibiotics. The fungus, Penicillium chrysogenum, comes from deep in the Earth’s subsurface and shows potential as a source for new antibacterial compounds. For the iFUNGUS experiment frozen fungal spores are transported to the ISS, fungus is grown in different nutrient mixtures over different intervals, and frozen samples are returned to Earth where scientists examine how they grew and what chemicals they produced. Discoveries generated by this research can foster further research and production efforts that utilize low gravity conditions to create novel compounds or other products.
MagVector:  The crew performed closeout and cleanup activities for the 7-day MagVector Run #12.  The European Space Agency (ESA) MagVector investigation studies how the Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research may help improve future ISS experiments and offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general. 
Rodent Research 9 (RR-9):  The crew replaced old food bars and cleaned the Animal Habitats to support the ongoing RR-9 investigation which studies how microgravity affects the immune systems, muscles and bones of rodents during extended stays on the ISS.  After approximately 30 days aboard the ISS, the mice will be returned to Earth where scientists on the ground will study how their time in space has affected various tissues, including brain, muscle, heart, joints, eyes and the immune system. 
SUPVIS-Justin:  The crew set up hardware for ESA’s SUPVIS-Justin investigation operations and completed a protocol operation.  SUPVIS-Justin, part of the Meteron program, aims to demonstrate that an astronaut on an orbiting space station can command a robot via a tablet PC to perform complex tasks on a planetary surface. The SUPVIS Justin experiment includes an extended supervised autonomy concept: the crew gives high level commands to the robot, which then uses its local intelligence and decision-making capability to execute a task independently, according to pre-programmed algorithms. In this sense, the responsibility of decision-making is shared between the crew and the robot. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  The crew collected saliva samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation and placed them inside a MELFI.  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS.  MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes on ISS over a 1-year period and how they change over time. 
Lighting Effects: A crewmember provided a sleep log entry for the Lighting Effects investigation. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. Fluorescent bulbs are being replaced with solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) that have adjustable intensity and color. Investigators will determine if the new lights improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have implications for people on Earth who use electric lights. 
Dose Tracker:  A crewmember made a weekly medication tracking entry in the Dose Tracker application that runs on an iPad. Dose Tracker documents the medication usage of crewmembers before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The investigation is expected to provide anecdotal evidence of medication effectiveness during flight and any unusual side effects experienced. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics is occurring during missions.
On-Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Descent Drill: In preparation for 50S undock, the 50S crew participated in a nominal descent drill.  In addition to the drill, they consulted with ground teams regarding returning equipment and Soyuz stowage. Undock and landing are scheduled for Saturday, September 2.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew R&Rd the WHC urine receptacle and insert filter. 
Starboard Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning: In preparation for 50S departure from the ISS next week, the crew cleaned the starboard CQ intake and exhaust ducts as well as fans and airflow sensors. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Test video recording for RT channel
DUBRAVA. Observation and photography using Photo Equipment
COSMOCARD. Preparation and start of a 24 hr-long ECG recording 
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
ECON-M. Observation and photography
Reminder Probiotics Saliva Operations
Microbial Tracking-2 Saliva Sample MELFI Insert
Biochemical Urine Test
Microbial Tracking-2 Reminder for Body Collection
Probiotics Saliva Operations
URISYS Hardware Stowage
Probiotics Saliva Sample MELFI Insertion
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) weekly conference
Biological Research In Canisters Light Emitting Diode Installation
JEM Camera Robot Cable Swap
Multi-Omics-Mouse Item Gathering
Biological Research in Canisters Light Emitting Diode
MORZE. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Microbial Capture Device (MCD) and Coliform Water Sample Analysis 44 +/- 4 hours post processing
PROBIOVIT. ТБУ-В No.5 Activation at +04 deg С setting
6×6 Bitran Bags Removal from Glacier
Bitran Bag S/N 1004 and S/N 1005 Insertion into STaARS facility for incubation
Soyuz 735 Descent Drill, Return Equipment List & Stowage Consultation
BIODEGRADATION  Structure Surface Sampling and Photography
Disconnection and Stowing of KUBIK 5
Transportation Cage Unit Cage Replace
TangoLab2 Card Cube Replace
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
MELFI Fixation Kit Retrieve
Microbial Tracking-2 Body Sample Collection
Big Picture Words read for SUPVIS-JUSTIN
Microbial Tracking-2 Body Sample MELFI Insert
KENTAVR fit check
PCG-7 Hardware Photography
Audio conference with Russia’s TASS Information Agency
Removal of PCG-7 Hardware from Polar and Temp Stow
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
PROBIOVIT. Removal of Probiotic kits No.1 and No.2 from ТБУ-В No.02 (+37 deg С) and setup in ТБУ-В No.05 at +4 deg C. ТБУ-В No.02 Deactivation and Removal
FAGEN. Deactivation and setup of MSK kit No.07 on SM panel 328
FAGEN. Photography during fixation of samples
Exchange Hard Drive for HRF PC1 Laptop computer
LBNP Training (PRELIMINARY)
Retrieve and Stow PCG-7 Hardware
HRF1 PC 1 USB Load Installation Preparation
Lung Tissue Media Fixation
Lung Tissue MELFI Sample Bag Insertion
Lung Tissue MELFI Tissue Containment Bag Insertion
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Dose Tracker Data Entry Subject
USB Jumpdrive Return and PPS2 Reconfiguration
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
High Definition Video Camera Assembly 2 Activation in High Definition Mode
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Starboard Cleaning
Rodent Research 9 Habitat 3 & 4 Restock
Supvis-Justin Setup for Operations
MORZE. Log Entry of Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
Hardware prepack for return and disposal on Soyuz 735
Photography of ТП228 mockup temperature sensors on the external surface of MRM2
HAPTICS SOFTWARE UPDATE
Checking metal bushings (2 pcs.) for the HC-1M force loader foot platform attachment and the foot restraint straps (2 pcs)   
HRF1 PC 1 USB Load Installation Conclude
SUPVIS-JUSTIN Protocol Operation
MORZE. Experiment setup
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) or ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Long Duration Sorbent Testbed Status Check.
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Photo/TV RED Camera firmware update and reset
Bitran Bag S/N 1004 Removal from STaARS
STAARS MELFI Bitran Bag Sample Insertion
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace
HAPTICS OPERATIONS CONCLUDE
Tropical Cyclone Untended Operations
Meteor Hard Drive Swap out
High Definition Video Camera Assembly 2 Switch to SD Mode
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
6×6 Bitran Bags Removal from Glacier
Bitran Bag S/N 1005, S/N 1006, S/N 1007 Operations
STAARS MELFI Bitran Bag Sample Insertion
MORZE. Log Entry of  Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake 

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Lung Media Fixation
RR9 Habitat Restock

