
Multi-Omics-Mouse: The crew performed routine maintenance on the Multi-Omics-Mouse Cage Units that are being maintained in microgravity, exchanging waste collection equipment and odor filters. Several studies have reported space flight effects on the human immune system, but the relationship between microbiota and immune dysfunction during flight remains unclear. In the Multi-Omics-Mouse investigation, food with and without fructooligosaccharides (FOS) will be used as prebiotics, to determine if they improve the gut environment and immune function.  After the flight, researchers will analyze the gut environment (microbiota and metabolites) and immune system of the mice by multi-omics analysis. 
Cool Flames Investigation: The crew replaced Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Fuel Reservoir in support of continued operations for the Cool Flames investigation.  Cool Flames provides new insight into the phenomenon where some types of fuels initially burn very hot, then appear to go out, but they continue burning at a much lower temperature, with no visible flames (cool flames). Understanding cool flame combustion helps scientists develop new engines and fuels that are more efficient and less harmful to the environment.
SSRMS LEE A Unable to Latch to MBS Base 3:  Robotics operations Tuesday evening were scheduled to include an MT Translate, an SSRMS Walkoff to MBS Base 3, and an SPDM Unstow in preparation for the P12B_B RPCM R&R that was scheduled for Wednesday evening.  During the SSRMS Walkoff, ROBO was unable to latch LEE A to MBS Base 3.  High motor currents were observed as the latches on the LEE were being driven. The SSRMS is currently in a safe configuration with LEE B grappled to the Node 2 PDGF.  The SPDM is still stowed. The Robotics team is in agreement to stand down on operations until a FIT is convened to discuss the LEE latch motor current data in more detail.  It should be noted the LEE A latches are not required to support a Dragon release.  As a result of the inability to complete Tuesday evening’s planned operations, the RPCM R&R scheduled for Wednesday evening has been postponed. 
On-Board Training (OBT) Medical Emergency: The 51S crew reviewed medical emergency procedures and rescuer roles during a medical event requiring Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) including emergency medical hardware configuration and determine desired deployed locations. During the training they covered crew communication and coordination of care. 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Status: Yesterday the crew reported a clicking noise emanating from T2 that had not been heard previously.  The crew took video and audio which were downlinked for ground team evaluation and T2 was declared no-go for exercise. Video and audio revealed no obvious sources so the crew was directed to perform T2 annual maintenance. Again, no sources were identified so the crew was given a go to use T2 but to monitor performance and report any further clicking noises.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

50S & 51S Samsung Tablet Battery Status Check and Recharge (if it is less than 80% charged)
Aquapad Double Water Sampling
KUBIK Functional check
Combustion Integrated Rack Front End Cap Close/Open
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold Bottle Replacement
Combustion Integrated Rack Doors Close/Open
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
T2 Activation and Checkout (ACO)
Treadmill  2 (T2) Yearly AND 6-MONTH MAINTENANCE plus Inspections
Environmental Health System (EHS) Coliform Water Processing
Environmental Health System (EHS) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collect
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Waste Water Bag (WWB) Changeout
In Situ message recording
KUBIK ASI Biomission message
Downlink and stowage
EPO items unstow and camera setup
Food Acceptability Questionnaire – Subject
Handover Feedback Questions
Ultrasound 2 Guided Data Export
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan Prep
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Post Exam
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 2 Power On
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan performed by a Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan
Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry – Subject
Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus One Fuel Reservoir Replacement
Multi-Omics-Mouse CBEF A3 Cage Install
Multi-Omics-Mouse CBEF A3 Cage Removal
Multi-Omics-Mouse Water Gel Removal from A3 cage
Multi-Omics-Mouse Cage Maintenance for Water A3 Cage
Multi-Omics-Mouse Cage Cleaning and Maintenance for Food Micro-G first part 1 & 2
Multi-Omics-Mouse Item Gathering
NeuroMapping Experiment Neurocognitive Test – Subject [Failed]
On Board Training (OBT) International Space Station (ISS) Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) Drill
CHeCS. Medical Contingency Drill
On Board Training (OBT) International Space Station (ISS) Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) Drill
Photo/TV Treadmill 2 (T2) Activation and Checkout (ACO) Video Setup & Teardown
Surface Tension Containment MWA Assist
Surface Tension Containment MWA Operations
Surface Tension Containment MWA Preparation
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 To HRF Rack 2 Transfer
1.0 CTB J0026 Wanted
XF305 Camcorder Setup
PROBIOVIT. Glovebox-S hardware prep.
PROBIOVIT. ТБУ-В No.2 installation and activation at + 37 deg С setting.
Video for episode 5 of “Space Yura and Nura” cartoon
End discharge of the 2nd Orlan Battery Pack 825М3 (stow in ФГБ1ПГО_2_221_1) and start discharge of the 3rd  Battery Pack No.1265131133 (00070928R)
Post-EVA SM ПхО and DC1 reconfig to nominal
Preventive Maintenance of SM АСП-О and Progress 436 ACA hatch Sealing Mechanisms after the RS EVA
Vacuum Cleaning area behind MRM1 panels 405, 406
MRM1 СКПФ1, СКПФ2 Dust Filter Replacement (ФГБ1ПГО_2_224_1, bag 436-26 (00071452R). Discard de-installed items. Reflect changes in IMS)
Photography of Plume Impingement and Deposit Monitoring Unit [БКДО] position on MRM2 from SM window No.13
Photography of Plume Impingement and Deposit Monitoring Unit [БКДО] position on MRM2 from SM window No.13, Closeout Ops
Photography of Plume Impingement and Deposit Monitoring Unit [БКДО] position on MRM2 from SM window No.13, Preparation
BIOKARD. Performing experiment (assist)
BIOCARD. Experiment Ops.
Hematocrit Test
Measuring Hematocrit Number.
Hematocrit Test
Hematocrit Hardware Stowage
Photography of the БД-2 treadmill belt edge and screen form of Belt tab
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
Terminate drying the second pair of gloves
Finish drying the 1st pair of gloves and start drying the 2nd  pair
Drying the 3rd pair of gloves
Stowage of suits and gloves after drying
Soyuz 735 crew Sokol leak check without donning ПКО and Kentavr
Terminate Drying Suits 1,2
Sokol Suit Dryout, Suits 1 and 2 Setup for Drying
Drying of the 3rd suit – end, start drying the 3rd pair of gloves
Dryout of the 3rd spacesuit: start, and set up the 1st pair of gloves for drying
ECON-M. Observation and photography

Completed Task List Activities

SABL2 Door Open – Morning
Photo/TV RED SSD Reader deploy 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

MT translation from WS4 to WS6

