08-25-2009August 25, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/25/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Upon wakeup (~2:00am EDT), FE-1 Mike Barratt, FE-2 Tim Kopra, FE-4 Bob Thirsk & FE-5 Frank De Winne continued their current round for the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.   Barratt did the final LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System) Phase 2 sampling session, using a Gram+ LAL (Limulus amebocyte lysate) cartridge, setting up the equipment, preparing media and taking samples (IDs #55, #56, #57, #58, #59) by surface swabbing.  Afterwards, the experiment was closed out, all trash discarded and the equipment stowed.    [LOCAD uses small, thumb-sized “microfluidic” cartridges that are read by the experiment reader.  The handheld device tests a new analysis technology by sampling for the presence of gram negative bacteria in the sample in about 15 minutes.  Lab-on-a-Chip technology has an ever-expanding range of applications in the biotech industry.  Chips are available (or in development) which can also detect yeast, mold, and gram positive bacteria, identify environmental contaminants, and perform quick health diagnostics in medical clinics.  The technology has been used to swab the MERs (Mars Exploration Rovers) for planetary protection.  With expanded testing on ISS, this compact technology has broad potential applications in space exploration--from monitoring environmental conditions to monitoring crew health.  After today, there are nine sessions remaining to complete the planned science requirements.]   FE-3 Romanenko completed the periodic (monthly) functional closure test of the Vozdukh CO2 (carbon dioxide) removal system’s spare emergency vacuum valves (AVK), in the spare parts kit.    [The AVKs are crucial because they close the Vozdukh's vacuum access lines in the event of a malfunction in the regular vacuum valves (BVK) or a depressurization in the Vozdukh valve panel (BOA).  Access to vacuum is required to vent CO2 during the regeneration of the absorbent cartridges (PP).]   After setting up the hardware for the new Russian geophysics experiment DZZ-12 Rusalka (“Mermaid”) at SM (Service Module) window #9, Romanenko conducted another session with hand-held observation of the sun glint with the spectrometer (i.e., without using the TIUS three-stage rate sensor), supported by ground specialist tagup.  The data were then downloaded to laptop RSE1 for downlink via OCA, and the gear was dismantled & stowed.    Starting a new round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, the FE-3 worked in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok), cleaning the mesh screen of its central ventilation fan TsV1 and the detachable VT7 fan screens of the three SOTR gas-liquid heat exchangers (GZhT4), plus the fixed GZhT4 grill.   FE-2 Tim Kopra did the weekly offloading of the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) from WRS (Water Recovery System) Rack 1 into a CWC-I (Collapsible Water Container-Iodine, #2004) with the common H2O transfer hose (which took about 23 min) from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Auxiliary Port, then flushed the system.   Kopra also supported the JAXA MS (Marangoni Surface) experiment by removing & replacing IPU VRU (Image Processing Unit/Video Recording Unit) hard disks.    [The replaced VRU disks were put in a Ziploc bag for return to SSIPC (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center/Tsukuba).]   After setting up the camcorder for recording video, FE-4 Thirsk & FE-5 De Winne reviewed instructions and then conducted the EPO (Educational Program Operations) discussion & demo of “Rotation”, on Center of Mass, Rotation, and Moments of Inertia.  Afterwards, Bob recorded a second EPO demo, “Speed/Work/Energy”, discussing speed of the ISS and Earth, work, and energy.  The hardware was then restowed.     [The demos were timed such that EPO ground personnel could provide real-time feedback during the demo.]   CDR Padalka conducted the periodic/long-term inspection of the SM RO (Working Compartment)’s pressure hull and ring, looking for any moisture, deposits, mold, corrosion and pitting behind panels 130, 134, 135, 138, 139 and also underneath the TVIS treadmill (where deposit was discovered earlier) and the cold plates (where SNT and STR lines are installed).  Last time done: 11/20/08.    [The inspection of the hull surface, which is coated with a primer and dark-green enamel, is done using cleaning napkins to wipe the area in question if required and reporting results to the ground.  The hull inspection looks for changed color and cavities; if cavities are found, they are to be measured for depth (with chewing gum) after cleaning.  Digital photographs of the shell before and after the removal of deposits were to be made for documentation.]   Padalka also did the periodic inspection of the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor’s sediment trap insert.   [The Russian SRVK-2M converts collected condensate into drinking water and dispenses the reclaimed potable water].   In the SM, with the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system turned off and VD-SU control mode disabled, the CDR continued his troubleshooting on the BITS2-12’s prime central processor subsystem (PTsB) behind panel 314 by removing the PZUB-1M (ROM, read-only memory) data storage unit and replacing it with a new ROM unit, PZUB-1T, from spares.    [The dismantled PZUB-1M was stowed and the hardware changes logged in the IMS (Inventory Management System).]    Afterwards, Gennady supported the ground-commanded re-activation of the Elektron oxygen generator at 24 amps by monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.     [The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.  Elektron had been turned off for the BITS2-12 troubleshooting since the BITS2-12 and VD-SU control system mode, required for Elektron, had to be deactivated during the activity.]   Mike Barratt had two hours set aside to scavenge/remove an AAA (Avionics Air Assembly) and an MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) filter from the deactivated & no longer used CHeCS (Crew Health Care System) Rack.  Both items were stowed as spares.   The CDR did the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   Romanenko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   The CDR & FE-3 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Gennady at ~1:05pm, Roman at ~2:50pm EDT.    [Yesterday’s PMC for Mike Barratt suffered a snag, when flight surgeons could establish only one-way video for the conference via the seldom-used SSC-10 (Station Support Computer 10).]   At ~11:50am, Bob Thirsk held the weekly teleconference with the CSA (Canadian Space Agency) ground support team.   The crew performed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).    Afterwards, Timothy transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  COL CMU R&R Update:   Frank De Winne’s R&R of the CMU1 (Command & Monitoring Unit 1) of the COL DMS (Columbus Orbital Laboratory Data Management System) on 8/21 was successful.  ESA is reporting that the unit is working nominally.    [CMU1 is one of four units in the DMS.   The failed CMU1 was prepacked for return on 17A.]  ATA  Replacement Planning:    In preparation for the ATA (Ammonia Tank Assembly) swap on EVA-2 & -3 during the 17A docked period, the tubing (not the already isolated tank) in the P1 truss will be vented by ground control starting on FD2 (Flight Day 2) to reduced pressure in the tank QD (Quick Disconnect) lines.   A very small amount of ammonia (NH3) will be dumped overboard (approx. 2.5 lbs).  Contamination will be minimized with off-flight-direction pointing.  The vent valve will be kept open for 4 days, until shortly before EVA-1, as a safeguard against a leak in an isolation valve.  If such a leak should occur and is large enough to produce NH3 ice crystals, they would be expected to be seen prior to Orbiter arrival (FD3), and action would be taken to stop the leak.  A slow leak would only produce NH3 vapor and should not be a concern.    [If the vent fails, one tank isolation valve will be opened to reduce the over pressurization risk.  Nitrogen (N2) will be vented from ATA on FD4, the day before EVA-1.  Established decontamination procedures will be in place in case of accidental ammonia contamination of the EV crew.]   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.    CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).   