
Command and Control (C&C) Multiplexer Demultiplexer (MDM) Transition : The ground executed a planned C&C MDM transition today.  C&C 2 MDM was transitioned to primary with C&C 3 MDM in backup and C&C 1 MDM in standby.  The transition supports the desired configuration for OA-5, ensuring that the primary Guidance, Navigation and Control (GN&C) MDM and the primary C&C MDM are not on the same power channels.
Columbus Power Distribution Unit 1 (PDU-1) Repower: Last Friday the Columbus Module experienced a power anomaly with Power Distribution Unit 1 (PDU-1), and a subset of the loads on PDU-1 lost power.  Systems were automatically safed.  All downstream loads have since been repowered with the exception of RapidScat.  During an attempt to reactivate RapidScat, outlet 3 on PDU-1 tripped.  The only two items downstream of this outlet are RapidScat and Solar Monitoring Observatory (SOLAR), which was deactivated at the time of the trip.  RapidScat has active heater power and is able to stay deactivated indefinitely without hardware impact.  Ground teams are investigating the cause of the outlet 3 trip. 
Payload Activities Completed Over the Weekend:

Mouse Epigenetics Habitat Cage Unit Maintenance:  The crew completed standard maintenance activities by exchanging the food cartridges and refilling the water of Mouse Habitat Cage Units which is located in the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF).
Heart Cells Media Change Operations: The crew changed the media in the Multiwell BioCell for Heart Cells and repaired one of the Multiwell BioCells within the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) work volume to provide nutrients to the Heart Cells.
Biological Rhythms 48 Hours Actiwatch Preparation: In preparation for upcoming Biological Rhythms activities this week, the crew configured of the Actiwatch using the Actiware Software and Medical Laptop.
NanoRack Module 9: Session 4 of 5 for the NanoRack Module 9 experiment was completed when the crew activated, deactivated, and shook the mixture tubes to facilitate the experiment.
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet were completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation.
Space Headaches: The crew completed the European Space Agency (ESA) Space Headaches questionnaire.
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) Hard Drive Change: The crew swapped the AMS hard drives in the UltraBay Adapter in the AMS laptop, which is completed every six months.

 