08-23-2009August 23, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/23/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday --- Crew rest day.  Ahead:  Week 13 of Increment 20.   Upon wakeup, FE-2 Timothy Kopra continued his current experiment activity of SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), logging data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of an extended session.     [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   For his chosen VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activity, Kopra set up the photographic equipment for the last session of the Moon photography required by the JAXA EPO (Educational Programs Operation) “ISS Moon Score” and afterwards conducted the shooting at pre-set times.     [The purpose of this JAXA EPO is to create a musical score using Moon photos taken from the “Kibo” JEM and DC-1 windows at different times in the lunar cycle while the crew is floating naturally under microgravity environment.  Five of the seven sessions required for each different Moon age were taken by Greg Chamitoff and Koichi Wakata, the remainder by Tim Kopra.  At least 80 photos are necessary from DC-1 no. 2 window with the 400mm lens, and at least 80 photos of the Moon with atmospheric layer and/or JEF (JEM External Facility) are desirable from JEM window #F8 with the 200mm lens.  However, if there wasn’t enough time to acquire 80 photos, the FE-2 was to take as many photos as he can during today’s session.]   FE-1 Mike Barratt & CDR Gennady Padalka performed a joint procedures review of the RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) operations, tagging up with ground specialists at ~10:55am EDT to discuss the results of their latest (8/20) RPM photo drill.    [The RPM flip-over is used by the crew for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the Shuttle next week.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Discovery, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]   Gennady completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   At ~4:10am, FE-5 Frank De Winne tagged up with the ESA staff at Col-CC (Columbus Control Center) at Oberpfaffenhofen/Germany.   [This conference is scheduled once every week, between ISS crewmembers and Col-CC via S/G2 (Space-to-Ground 2) audio.]   At ~4:07pm, the ISS crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H via S-band/audio.    [S/G-2 (Space-to-Ground 2) phone patch via SSC (Station Support Computer).]   The five Flight Engineers had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Roman Romanenko at ~7:40am, Frank De Winne at ~8:30am, Tim Kopra at ~10:15am, Bob Thirsk at ~12:00pm, Mike Barratt at ~4:45pm EDT.   The crew performed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).    At ~1:20pm, Roman Romanenko & Gennady Padalka downlinked PAO TV messages & greetings to TsUP-Moscow for the Seventh Pacific Meridian Film Festival in Vladivostok.    [The Seventh Pacific Meridian Film Festival, to take place in Vladivostok on 9/19-9/25/09, is an international film festival for all of the Asian Pacific Region countries.  The Asian Pacific Region countries include those whose shores border the Pacific Ocean as well as the Southeast Asian countries up to India.  The film festival takes place annually in the city of Vladivostok.  The Pacific Meridian is above all a contest for feature-length films and movie shorts, in which debutants and already famous film-makers participate.  A large part of the non-competitive program includes a view into modern film-making in the Asian Pacific Region countries over the past year, new Russian films, as well as retrospectives of world renowned directors.  55 countries have expressed their desire to participate in the film festival.  Films from 37 countries will be presented during the film festival program and 20 pictures from 13 countries in the Asian Pacific Region (China, Singapore, India, Canada, Korea, Australia, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, the Philippines, USA, and Russia) will be entered into the competitive program.]   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.    CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  