08-24-2010August 24, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 08/24/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   At wake-up, CDR Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   Upon wake-up, FE-4 Wheelock concluded his 5-day session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) after the urine pH spot test, his 3rd onboard run, with the final controlled diet and diet logging.  Photo documentation was part of the activity.     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]   Doug then underwent his 2nd (FD60) Nutrition/Repository/Pro K generic blood collection, in which FE-3 Kornienko assisted him with the phlebotomy as operator.  Wheels set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  FE-4 also closed out his FD60 urine collections at about 3:00am EDT after completing the 24-hr protocol.  His next Nutrition/Repository/Pro K activity will be his FD120 session.     [Based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV (International Procedures Viewer) capabilities, the generic blood & urine procedures for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]   Also, FE-4 Wheelock & FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson completed another session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.    [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Caldwell-Dyson powered up the ERB2 (European Recording Binocular 2) from the EDR (European Drawer Rack) and checked it out before letting it run on its internal clock.      [The internal clock runs for 1hr and 20min until ERB2 is shut down, having recorded on its 135-min capacity hard disk.]   Afterwards, Tracy set up the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware in COL, including MBS (Mixing Bag System), powered it up and then spent several hours performing her 5th session with the VO2max assessment, integrated with Thermolab.  After concluding without issues, she downloaded the data, including Thermolab, to a PCS (Portable Computer System) laptop, powered down, cleaned up and temporarily moved all hardware aside for subsequent crew operation.      [The experiment VO2max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% & 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]   Later, FE-2 retrieved the MELFI-1 trays, which had been put out for drying after the recent power-downs, and inserted them into MELFI-3’s Dewar 1.   FE-6 Walker continued her support of POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center/Huntsville) in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) on the SAME (Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment) payload by activating the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) and then changing out the sample carousel, the alcohol wick and the thermal precipitator, followed by opening vent & GN2 (gaseous nitrogen) valves for ground-controlled operation.   After a ~4hr run, FE-6 performed the scheduled shutdown of the experiment.   Shannon then took the regular monthly assessment (her 3rd) of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh her CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on intravenous (IV) fluid infusion.   [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]    Afterwards, Shannon underwent, as subject, her 3rd (FD75) ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Resting Echo Scan in the US Lab, assisted by Wheelock as CMO who helped to operate the scans.     [Wearing electrodes, ECG (Electrocardiograph) cable & VOX, Shannon underwent the ultrasound scan for the Exercise Echo mode of ICV, with video being recorded from the HRF (Human Research Facility) Ultrasound and COL cabin camera.  Heart rate was tracked with the HRM (Heart Rate Monitor).  After confirmed file transfer, the gear was powered down and stowed. The ultrasound echo experiment uses the Image Collector software on the laptop and requires VOX/Voice plus RT Video downlink during the activity.  Goal of the ICV experiment is to quantify the extent, time course, and clinical significance of cardiac atrophy and identify its mechanisms.  The ICV experiment consists of two separate but related activities over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).]   In preparation for the next Progress arrival, M-07M/39P on 9/10, Alexander & Mikhail, with TsUP support, conducted the standard 30-min intermodular space-to-space (wireless) test of the TORU teleoperated rendezvous & docking system, i.e., between the TORU control station in the SM and the Progress 38P, docked at SM (Service Module) aft.  Progress DPO (Approach & Attitude Control) thrusters were not commanded.     [TORU is the manually teleoperated backup approach and docking system for the automated Progress ships.  It will be on "hot standby" during the upcoming arrival of Progress 39P.]     With Skvortsov & Kornienko due to depart on Soyuz 22S (along with Caldwell-Dyson) on 9/24, Alexander & Mikhail (of Exp-24) spent several hours with FE-5 Yurchikhin (of Exp-25) on handover activities, to get Fyodor up to date with RS (Russian Segment) tasks and issues.   Afterwards, Misha had another 1.5 hrs to transfer & stow discarded cargo and trash on Progress 38P.   FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson collected the periodic potable water samples from the WRS WPA (Water Recovery System / Water Processor Assembly), first purging (washing out) the sampling equipment, then drawing six 1L samples from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser)’s auxiliary port.   In the COL, Tracy later replaced the stowage goods at loc. D4 removed yesterday by Doug to make room at F4 for the USND (Ultrasound) eye scanning session on Tracy.   In the JAXA Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-4 Wheelock worked on the FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility) for the MI (Marangoni Inside) experiment, taking out the silicon filter hose.    [After first disconnecting the IPU (Image Processing Unit) User Video cables between FPEF and IPU, Doug opened the FPEF experiment cover plate and removed the filter hose.]   With the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) set up to monitor activities in COL, Wheelock finished up on downgrading the FSL VMU (Fluids Science Laboratory / Video Management Unit) hardware, begun yesterday, swapping the Hard Disks HDD1 & HDD2.  The DLT (Digital Line Tape) tape recorder was then replaced and the connections tightened with reinforcing Kapton tape.     [The DLT and new HDDs were installed by Soichi Noguchi on 3/5, but the FSL has had communication problems ever since, which repeated troubleshooting attempts were unable to resolve.  The current activity returned the VMU to its old configuration.]   Fyodor conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Kornienko completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   Mikhail also set up and readied the PZE MO-9 equipment for another Russian “Urolux” biochemical urine testing, scheduled tomorrow for all three Russian crewmembers.    [MO-9 is conducted regularly every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for US crewmembers for IMG (Integrated Medical Group) PHS evaluation as part of the "PFE w/o Blood Labs" exam.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally for the Mir program.  The data are then entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software.]   Before sleeptime tonight, Yurchikhin sets up the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and starts his 5th experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]   CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4 & FE-5 were scheduled for their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Mikhail at ~8:30am, Alex at ~8:45am, Tracy at ~10:30am, Wheels at ~2:30pm, Fyodor at ~2:45pm EDT.   At ~1:20pm, Fyodor Yurchikhin supported a Russian PAO TV event by downlinking a message of greetings & congratulations to the residents of the Shchelkov District on their holiday on 8/27 when the city administration of Shchelkov will hold a celebration event dedicated to the Day of Shchelkov municipal district.   Wheels, with support by Shannon Walker, removed the exercise rope of the ARED advanced resistive exercise device and replaced it with a new spare.   When they were finished, Tracy flew in and conducted the periodic maintenance & visual inspection of the ARED, checking out the rails & rollers, greasing the Y- and Z-axis rails & rollers and evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration.   The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but is regularly being done after the last T2 session of the day.]  TVIS  Update:  The treadmill is currently NoGo due to some off-nominal noise during operation, and one of the slats appears to be partially buckled.  A troubleshooting procedure was developed.  This activity has some urgency since Skvortsov & Kornienko are within the thirty day deadline of required return exercise protocol.  They are currently approved for using the T2/COLBERT treadmill.   (Note: TVIS is located in the SM, and TVIS ops are currently under RS control, however maintenance remains the responsibility of U.S. specialists.)    CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo target uplinked for today was Woollya Cove, Chile (HMS Beagle site.   Looking right of track on the far side of Tierra del Fuego as seen from track.  Visual cues are first the wide spit of land of Tierra del Fuego itself, then the narrow strip of water known as the Beagle Channel which divides Argentina [Tierra del Fuego] from Chile [islands south of the channel].  The target is the waterway between major islands on the south side of the channel.  Darwin and Captain Fitzroy of HMS Beagle were disappointed to find that the mission station set up here some years earlier had been abandoned).  