
Biorock: The crew removed the Biorock container samples from Kubik 5 and 6 and placed them into cold stowage after imagery was taken. The interaction between microbes and rocks in a liquid phase can be affected by reduced gravity in several ways. The reduction of thermal convection in low-gravity, and its absence in microgravity, minimizes the natural stirring in liquids and gases, and may restrict the supply of food and oxygen to the bacteria – leading to a suppression of growth, proliferation and mining performance. The goals of the Biorock investigation is to verify and quantify this assumption, and to find out if morphological and genetic changes occur in the biofilms. 
Micro-15: The crew performed Session C of Drug Injection activities for the Micro-15 sample bags. The goal of this investigation is to better understand the effects of gravity on the differentiation of mammalian cells using 3-D cultures of induced pluripotent stem cells. Past flight experiments and ground-based simulations have demonstrated that microgravity influences gene expression, cell proliferation, and differentiation in stem cells but the mechanism behind these observations is not clearly understood. This study investigates how exposure to microgravity fundamentally alters cell regulation and how these changes can affect the timing, progression, and outcomes of cell differentiation. 
International Docking Adapter (IDA)3 Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed the following in preparation for tomorrow’s planned EVA:

Conference with ground teams for reminders, emergency briefing, helpful tips and procedures to be used
Equipment Lock preparation
Degassed Liquid Cooling Venting Garment (LCVG) S/N 3270 and Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3008
Multimeter setup at Node 2 Zenith IDA Control Panel 

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday evening and this morning, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS then grappled and extracted International Docking Adapter 3 (IDA-3) from the SpaceX-18 trunk.  Using the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and the Space Station Robotic Manipulator System (SSRMS), they maneuvered IDA-3 to the starting configuration for the EVA tomorrow.
Completed Task List Activities:

AstroPi IR status check

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


EVA preparation support
Payloads ops support

Look Ahead:
Wednesday, 8/22 (GMT 233)
Payloads:


Micro-15 Sample Fixation (NASA)
HRF Repository Urine (NASA)
Standard Measures Saliva Collect (NASA)

Systems:

IDA3 Install EVA 

Thursday, 8/22 (GMT 234)
Payloads:


Vascular Aging Blood Pressure (CSA)
NUTRISS Setup and Measurement (ESA)
MSPR2 cable attachment (JAXA)
RR-17 Habitat Restock and Access Unit Clean (NASA)
NanoRacks MOD-9 Ops 4 (NASA)
LSG Front Glove Swap (NASA)
Goodyear Sample Termination (NASA)
Micro-15 Drug Injection session D (NASA)
HRF Repository Frozen blood setup (NASA)

Systems:

EVA debrief
EMU water ops

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


TOCA Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
On MCC GO Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Cartridge, initiate
Periodic Health Status (PHS) Pre EVA Examination – Subject
Unmanned Soyuz 743 rendezvous monitoring OBT
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluation – Subject
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
TOCA Sample Data Record
FOTOBIOREACTOR. Activation of Bench Cleaning
International Docking Adapter (IDA) Stowage Removal
FOTOBIOREACTOR. Equipment Reconfig in the Bench
International Docking Adapter (IDA) Multimeter Setup
Equipment Lock (E-LK) Preparation
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Audit
FOTOBIOREACTOR. Medium replacement in Glovebox-S
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Conference
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) iPad Contingency Procedures preparation
International Docking Adapter (IDA) Multimeter Video Setup
PILOT-T. Closeout Ops
VELO, Day 4
On MCC GO Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Absorption Cartridge (end)

 