
CREAM (Cosmic Ray Energetics and Mass):  Last night the CREAM external payload was removed from the SpX-12 trunk by the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and handed off to the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which then installed it on Exposed Facility Unit-2 (EFU-2) on the JEM Exposed Facility (JEF).  Ground controllers then commanded activation of the CREAM payload.  CREAM’s instruments measure the charges of cosmic rays over a broad energy range for a planned three years of operation on the ISS.  The origins of cosmic rays and the mechanisms that accelerate them to high speeds are among the oldest questions in modern astrophysics.  Results from CREAM are expected to bring the science community closer to answering those questions and build a stronger understanding of the fundamental structure of the universe.
Cardio Ox Ultrasound:  A 50S crewmember completed their Return minus 15 Day (R-15) ultrasound, blood pressure and Electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements for the Cardio Ox investigation.  Another crewmember provided scanning assistance after the subject crewmember donned the ECG electrodes and marked the carotid and brachial arteries for scanning.  By collecting ultrasound and ECG data, along with blood and urine samples, scientists are trying to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. 
ADvanced Space Experiment Processor (ADSEP):  The crew removed Cell Culturing (CellCult) cassettes from ADSEP, inserted cells into each cassette and reinserted them into ADSEP.  ADSEP is a thermally controlled facility that accommodates up to three cassette-based experiments that can be independently operated. Its companion hardware consists of a collection of several experiment cassettes that accommodate experiments in cell technology, model organisms, multiphase fluids, solution chemistry, separation science, microencapsulation, and crystal growth.  For CellCult investigations, each cassette contains a rotating filtered bioreactor, a reservoir for fresh media, two peristaltic pumps, a waste reservoir, and up to 6 sample-collection or reagent containers connected by a manifold to the reactor. Cultures can be operated in continuous perfusion, batch fed, static, or sampling mode.  The removal of samples and the addition of additives to the reactor volume can be programmed or teleoperated. 
Multi-Omics-Mouse: The crew performed routine maintenance for the Multi-Omics-Mouse Cage Units, exchanging waste collection equipment and odor filters.  Several studies have reported space flight effects on the human immune system, but the relationship between microbiota and immune dysfunction during flight remains unclear. In the Multi-Omics-Mouse investigation, food with and without fructooligosaccharides (FOS) will be used as prebiotics, to determine if they improve the gut environment and immune function.  After the flight, researchers will analyze the gut environment (microbiota and metabolites) and immune system of the mice by multi-omics analysis.
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM):  The crew ingressed BEAM and collecteded air and surface microbial samples.  BEAM is an experimental expandable module attached to the ISS.  Expandable modules weigh less and take up less room on a rocket than a traditional module, while providing additional space on-orbit for living and working. Crews traveling to the moon, Mars, asteroids, or other destinations may be able to use them as habitable structures.
Treadmill 2 (T2): This afternoon the crew reported a clicking noise emanating from T2 that had not been heard previously.  The crew took video and audio which were downlinked for ground team evaluation. T2 is currently no-go for exercise.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Advanced Space Experiment Processor Cell Collection On-Board Training
Advanced Space Experiment Processor Cell Collection
ADSEP MELFI Sample Insertion #1
ADSEP MELFI Removal #2
AQUAPAD Training
KUBIK Functional check
BEAM Cleanup and Egress
BEAM Ingress
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Node 3 Aft Stow/Unstow
Cardio Ox CDL Holter Arterial BP Hardware Doff – Subject
Cardio Ox CDL Holter Arterial BP Measurement – Subject
Cardio Ox Ultrasound Preparation
Cardio Ox Ultrasound Scan – Operator
Cardio Ox Ultrasound Scan – Subject
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Install
ARED Platform Fold
ARED Platform Unfold Back to Nominal Position
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Kit Sample Collection
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Surface Sample Kit (SSK) Collection/Incubation
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Post Scrub Cooling Loop Water (H2O) Sample
Stow Syringes used in H2O Conductivity Test
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Conductivity Test
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfiguration
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub Initiation
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Iodination
Handover Feedback Questions
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Medical Accessories Kit (IMAK) Unpack from SPX-12
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Tonometry Test Setup/Stow
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Tonometry Test Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Tonometry Test Subject
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Questionnaire
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test
IFUNGUS sample MELFI Insertion #1
Auxiliary Computer System [ВКС] Hardware Audit
Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry – Subject
Multi-Omics-Mouse Cage Cleaning Familiarization Conference
Multi-Omics-Mouse Cage Cleaning and Maintenance for Food 1G first part 1
Multi-Omics-Mouse Cage Cleaning and Maintenance for Food 1G first part 2
Multi-Omics-Mouse Item Gathering
Photo/TV N3/BEAM Camcorder Setup
Probiotics Fecal Sample MELFI Insertion
Probiotics Fecal Sample Operations
Probiotics Sample Photo
Reminder Rodent Research Thermal Consideration
Treadmill 2 (T2) Photo/TV Reminder
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Наклейка русской клавиатуры на лэптоп RSК2
Pre-pack cargo items for return or disposal on Soyuz 735
Surface Tension Containment MWA Assist
Surface Tension Containment MWA Operations
Surface Tension Containment MWA Preperation
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Water Recovery System Waste Water Tank Drain Init
Water Recovery System Waste Water Tank Drain Termination
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Test video recording for RT channel
Stop discharging the 1st Orlan Battery Pack 825М3 and and start discharging the 2nd Battery Pack
EVA tool stow, update IMS
RSK1 Laptop Replacement
DUBRAVA. Observation and photography using Photo Equipment
Virus Definition File Update on Auxiliary Computer System (ВКС) Laptops
Reconnecting SM KURS-P cables from to DC1 port Antenna Feeder to MRM2 port antenna feeder, Handover
Reconnecting SM KURS-P cables from to DC1 port Antenna Feeder DC1 to MRM2 port antenna feeder
МО-8. Configuration Setup
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
МО-8. Closeout Ops
Hematocrit. Hardware Setup
LBNP Training (PRELIMINARY) Operator
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
БРП-М water sampling to drink bags
СВО-ЗВ water sampling to Russian drink bags
Collecting condensate water samples [КАВ] up to [СРВ-К2М] БКО, equipment setup, sampler installation
Sampling atmospheric condensate [КАВ] upstream of БКО [СРВК-2М], Sampler Removal, Deconfiguration
Collecting condensate water samples [КАВ] to [СРВ-К2М] БКО, sampler replacement
Measuring Partial CO Pressure in RS using US portable CSA-CP device
Sampling condensate water [КАВ] upstream of СРВ-К2М Gas-liquid mixture filter (ФГС) to drink bags, end
Hardware prepack for return and disposal on Soyuz 735
URAGAN. Observation and Photography
ECON-M. Observation and photography

Completed Task List Activities

SABL2 Door Open 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

CREAM install
EVA loop scrub
BEAM ingress

