
Fluid Shifts – FE9:  A second crewmember began the first of the Fluid Shifts experiment operations known as Dilution Measures.  Dilution Measures looks at fluid compartmentalization by assessing of total body water (via saliva and urine analysis) and extracellular and intracellular fluid volume (via blood and urine analysis).  Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis and is typically spread over several weeks. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
Microgravity Crystals – FE6:  The crew pipetted and mixed solutions of varying viscosities onto crystallization plates 1B, 2B, 3B, and 4B. Then wells on the plates were then sealed and the completed plates transferred to SABL. The Microgravity Crystals investigation crystallizes a membrane protein that is integral to tumor growth and cancer survival. Although crystallization of this protein has yielded unsatisfactory results on Earth, this investigation leverages extensive protein crystallization work on the space station, significantly increasing the likelihood of successful crystal growth. Results may support development of cancer treatments that target the protein more effectively and with fewer side effects.
Space Moss maintenance – FE5: The crew performed a Space Moss Plant Experiment Unit Cleanup to remove dust from the CBEF vent fan cable cover.  Environmental Response and Utilization of Mosses in Space – Space Moss (Space Moss) grows mosses aboard the space station, and on Earth, to determine how microgravity affects their growth, development, gene expression, photosynthetic activity, and other features. Tiny plants without roots, mosses need only a small area for growth, an advantage for their potential use in space and future bases on the Moon or Mars.
Vascular Aging – FE8: The crew donned the appropriate hardware and performed the blood pressure monitoring sessions and attempted the ultrasound session.  Unfortunately, due to issues with the ECHO ultrasound unit, the Vascular Aging session was not fully completed and was deferred.  Emerging data indicates links among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Vascular Aging investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Robotic Operations Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU): The Mobile Servicing System (MSS) was powered-up and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm2 in position to install the In Flight Maintenance (IFM) MBSU in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) ORU Transfer Interface (JOTI) on the JEM Airlock Slide Table. Next, the MSS was maneuvered into position in preparation for MT translation to Worksite (WS3) for MBSU3 AFRAM transfer.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Payloads support ops

Saturday, 8/31 (GMT 243)
Payloads:


NutrISS
Probiotics

Systems:

Crew off duty, housekeeping

Sunday, 9/1 (GMT 244)
Payloads:


None

Systems:

Crew off duty

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Microgravity Crystals MELFI Vial Retrieve
Microgravity Crystals Screening Plate Load S/N 1B/2B
MICROVIR. Photography of Cassette-M No.1-3 and No.1-4 upper cells
Team Task Switching Experiment Survey
Soyuz 743 packing conference
In Flight Maintenance MBSU Procedure Review
Lighting Effects Light Meter Setup
Microgravity Crystals MELFI Protein Vial Insertion
Fluid Shifts HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Operator
Soyuz 743 БО and [СА] Transfers and IMS Ops
Fluid Shifts HRF Centrifuge Blood Collection Configuration
Space Moss Plant Exp Unit Cleanup
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) 1G Cable Check
Microgravity Crystals MELFI Vial Retrieve
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Microgravity Crystals Screening Plate Load S/N 3B/4B
MICROVIR. Photography of Cassette-M No.1-3 and 1-4 cells contents
ISPYTATEL. Installing and connecting robot in MRM2
Lighting Effects Light Meter Ambient Readings
Microgravity Crystals MELFI Protein Vial Insertion
MICROVIR. Photography of Cassette-M No.1-3 and 1-4 cells contents
Magnetic 3D-bioprinter Experiment Session 7
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config JEM Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
Lighting Effects Light Meter Stow
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Oxygen Manual Valve Open
VIP Conference – JEM
MICROVIR.  Photography of Cassette-M No.1-3 and 1-4 cells contents
ISPYTATEL. Work Prep.  Robot Activation and Checkout
ISPYTATEL. Setting up and running session No.1
ISPYTATEL. Data Export from GoPro No.1 to Zbook Laptop (start)
MICROVIR. Photography of Cassette-M No. 1-3 and 1-4 cells contents. Activation of auto photography
ISPYTATEL. Data export from GoPro No.1 (end)

 