
Payloads:
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): The xPWD hardware was installed, activated, and checked out in Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 7. The current on-orbit Potable Water Dispenser (PWD), launched in fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. The new system, xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the ISS crew.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device-Kinematics (ARED-K): Preparation activities continued for the ARED-K experiment, with a goal of performing the first science session next week. ARED is the current resistive exercise device used as a countermeasure to musculoskeletal deconditioning in microgravity. However, a major unknown is the internal bone and muscle forces developed during exercise in microgravity. In addition, squat and deadlift resistance exercise loads used in flight have to be increased to account for the loss of body weight in microgravity and it is unknown how the level of body weight replacement (BWR) affects bone and muscle loads. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the space station.
Bio-Monitor: The crew replaced several suspect controller unit USB cables with new cables to alleviate intermittent data connectivity issues. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crewmember physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew verified that the Ion Pump controller power LED was illuminated.  This allows the health of the new science module 3B to be preserved until it can be installed in the CAL facility at a later date. CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS-3D): The eleven currently installed DOSIS-3D Passive Detector Packages (PDPs) were removed and prepared for return to the ground, and the new set of PDPs were installed.  ISS crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation, which can be harmful to their health. DOSIS-3D uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS.
Systems:
Emergency Mask Inspection: Today, the crew performed an inspection of the emergency masks onboard ISS. The crew identified a number of suspect masks and sequestered them from the functional inventory. Ground teams will develop a forward plan for the suspect masks and manifest strategy. The emergency mask Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is designed to provide respiratory protection to crewmembers in response to an ammonia leak or post-fire event.
ISS Crew Handover and Adaptation: The experienced Endeavour Crew and 69S Crew continued the handover with the newly arrived Endurance Crew to transfer knowledge of the intricacies of onboard equipment and working in microgravity. The newly arrived crewmembers executed activities while the experienced crewmembers provided oversight and assistance.
Waste Hygiene Compartment Consumables Audit: An audit of the Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) consumables was performed to help determine either future shortages or excess in supplies, adjust planning use-rate, and determine future manifest quantities.
Columbus Network Monitoring and Administration Unit CMAU Shell Swap: Today, the crew performed activities to replace the CMAU Zbook Laptop shell with a stowed spare. The crew removed High-Definition Drive (HDD) and installed a new HDD.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEMRMS Preparation Maneuver for SFA Installation to SSE [Last Night]
SFA grasping SSE Tool Fixture 2 [Last Night]
xPWD Activation And Checkout – Part 1
Crew Dragon System Undock Activation [Tonight]
NRAL Pressure Equalization Commanding

