
Payloads:
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): The crew performed a manual fluid recovery and refilled the plant nutrient solution as needed. They also performed a plant check with the goal of reporting plant growth, as well as any algae or microbial growth that may be present. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station (NutrISS): The crew performed an ESA Nutritional Assessment (ENA) in support of the NutrISS investigation. Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. It is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss.
Systems:
Nitrogen Jumper Purge: In preparation for the Life Support Rack (LSR) and Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) swap next week, the crew purged the Oxygen Generation System (OGS) nitrogen jumper with nitrogen to integrate the jumper with the OGS. The Nitrogen Purge On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) regulates flow of nitrogen through the electrolyzing cell stack in the Hydrogen ORU to make it inert for safing or deactivation.
OGS Feedwater Hose Flush: In preparation for the LSR/OGA rack swap next week, the crew flushed the OGS Feed Water Jumper through the Potable Bus using the Water Storage System (WSS) Sample Port Hose. The intent of this activity was to flush out any microbial growth that may have accumulated over time in the hose.
Lab DZUS Fastener Repair: Today, the crew inspected and replaced DZUS fasteners in the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE) volume on the LAB1D1-01 panel. In order to replace the DZUS fasteners, crew had to first remove the PFE and replace when finished. Repairing this fastener returned the closeout panel to a nominal configuration and ensures it can withstand crew-induced loads.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) EP FRAM Swap
PRO LSG Facility Activation Commanding
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Power up

