
Trailing Thermal Control Radiator (TTCR) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Post-EVA Activities:  Today, the USOS crew had a half-duty day.  They completed their post-EVA medical checkups, and performed an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge procedure on EMUs 3003 and 3008. The EMUs and associated equipment were then be prepared for storage.  They then participated in an EVA debrief to discuss any comments regarding preparation and execution of the EVA. 
Skin-B Operations: The Skin-B investigation was conducted as FE-6 performed Corneometer, Tewameter and Visioscan measurements on his forearm. The Corneometer measures the hydration level of the stratus coreum (outer layer of the skin), the Tewameter measures the skin barrier function, and the Visioscan measures the skin surface topography. Skin B is a European Space Agency (ESA) investigation that aims to improve the understanding of skin aging, which is greatly accelerated in space. The data will also be used to verify the results from previous testing for the SkinCare investigation on the ISS.  
Space Headaches: The crew completed the ESA Space Headaches questionnaire which provides information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crew members which can influence performance during a space mission. 
Habitability Walk-through: The crew recorded a walk-through video documenting observations of life onboard ISS, providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Closing Window Shutters 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14
Regeneration of БМП Ф2 Micropurification Cartridge
Soyuz 720 СУДН Test Prior to Undocking
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 8
Post EVA Crew Health Status Examination
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference
Environmental Control & Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Soyuz 720 Samsung tablet recharging
USOS EVA Photo Cameras Reconfiguration
Skin B Nominal Ops (SKNB) Setup and hardware gathering
CALCIUM. Bioekololgiya Cases: Photography, Processing, and Photo Downlink, Pre-pack for Return
ISS HAM – Activation of ISS HAM Radio and Video
IMS Tagup (S-band)
HABIT Habitability Walk-Through Video
Crew Departure Prep
BIODEGRADATSIYA. Sample collection from structure surfaces and photography
WRS Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
Water flow through Microbial Removal Filter
Soyuz 720 [АСУ] Activation
Pille Dosimeter Readings after US EVA
Prepack USOS hardware for stowage in Soyuz
EMU Water Refill
Soyuz 720 Descent OBT
Crew’s Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review
Food Frequency Questionnaire
Microbial Removal Filter (MRF) Purge
Expedition 49/50 Crew Handover Conference
Post-EVA PBA Relocation
Crew Departure Prep
METEOR Rack Doors Open
Crew EVA Debrief
СОЖ Maintenance
Onboard Training (OBT) Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Debrief
Space Headaches (SHD) Weekly Questionnaire
IMS Delta File Prep
Space Headaches (SHD) Weekly Questionnaire
IMS Conference
Initiating potable water flow through the Microbial Removal Filter into the Water Processor Assembly
Daily Planning Conference
Flight Director / ISS Crew Tagup
Regeneration of БМП Ф2 Absorption Cartridge

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

46S Thruster Test (first time Soyuz thruster test performed on US CMG Control)

