
Payloads:
Astrobee: The JEM was prepared for Astrobee flyer remote operations. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. These robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, and logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The remaining closeout steps for the Slice-7B hardware replacement were completed. The newhardware will  the operational quality of CAL and resolve voltage spikes from the injector. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time. 
Immunity Assay: Samples were collected and reaction tubes were prepared for centrifuge operations in the Human Research Facility (HRF) centrifuge. After centrifuge operations, the reaction tubes were clipped and placed into cold stowage. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): Electrolysis water sampling was collected from the electrolysis water tank and then the electrolysis water was disposed into the JWRS processed water bag. The JWRS generates potable water from wastewater. In the past, wastewater was collected and stored, or vented overboard; however, for long-term space missions, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
TangoLab Mission-32: Cube QUST_NNL06 removal from slot A in Tangolab-4 and cube QUST_NXT-02 was installed in slot A. Space Tango launched two 9U cubes for the TangoLab Mission-32 operations and two 9U cubes for the TangoLab Mission-33 operations. TangoLab units 3 and 4 are utilized for Mission-32. 
TELe-Luminescence Analysis System (TELLAS): TELLAS equipment was installed into the MSPR Work Bench and cables were connected in preparation of upcoming TELLAS operations. The TELLAS is an experimental facility that uses luminescence and an imager to make observations of tissues/genes in small living animals. Such in-vivo observations facilitate the study of mechanisms related to aging in the microgravity environment. Installed in the JEM, the TELLAS facility can provide information that contributes to aging research and improves the health and longevity of people on Earth.
Systems:
Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) Checkout: A checkout of the Test Module for SAFER seals was performed to satisfy on-orbit maintenance requirements, which included measurement of the SAFER regulator pressure under flow and no-flow conditions, performance of a leak check, and measurement of the relief valve crack and reseating of the pressure. Essentially a “life jacket” for spacewalks, SAFER is a self-contained maneuvering unit that is worn like a backpack. The system relies on small jet thrusters to let an astronaut move around in space.
Emergency Equipment Return: Following the Crew-6/Crew-7 handover, the emergency such as Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs) were relocated to their approved stowage location on the ISS. The PBA provides breathable O2, eye/nose/mouth protection, and two-way communications to a crewmember during a fire, rapid depressurization, or toxic spill event.
On-orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA) Assessment: The crew performed a hearing test using an OOHA headset and KUDUwave software. An OOHA is done within the first 14 days of flight on the ISS, and then every 60 days thereafter, to assess the peripheral hearing sensitivity of crewmembers while living on the ISS. The results will help the audiology team with data comparisons to conventional pre-flight and post-flight audiometric test results of crewmembers.
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): Today, the crew completed the setup max CEVIS today which is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. The Max CEVIS activities satisfies ISS medical requirements to measure crew heart rate, electrocardiogram, and oxygen consumption. The max CEVIS crew sessions are scheduled for tomorrow.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS Walkoff Maneuver
SPDM BDT Testing
Upgrade BCC SAN Version

