
Payloads: 
Four Bed CO2 Scrubber:  The crew routed the MSG Aux Power Cable from LAB1O5 UIP to LAB1P4 UIP to provide power to Four Bed CO2 Scrubber.  Four Bed CO2 Scrubber demonstrates a technology for removing carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere on a spacecraft.  The technology is based on the current system in use on the International Space Station (ISS) with mechanical upgrades in absorption beds, heater elements and valves, and the use of an improved zeolite absorbent to reduce erosion and dust formation.  A goal for next-generation systems is continuous operation for 20,000 hours without a failure. This technology demo is a step toward that goal.
Genes in Space-8:  The crew performed the Genes in Space 8 Freeze and Fly Run #4 by using the mini-PCR to amplify DNA samples.  Some pharmaceuticals used to maintain astronaut health do not work as well in space, which may be linked to changes in levels of the liver enzymes that metabolize most drugs.  Genes in Space-8 tests the Genes in Space Fluorescence Viewer, a new technology for monitoring the expression of genes that control these critical enzymes.  This test could lead to a better understanding of spaceflight-induced changes in liver gene expression and may support development of new therapies that can account for the body’s adaptations to spaceflight.
GRIP:  The crew executed the GRIP Dynamics Seated protocol session 2 of 3. The GRIP experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements, and tapping gestures.
The Materials Science Lab Batch 3a (MSL SCA-Batch 3a-ESA):  A crewmember replaced the Gas Supply of the MSL facility in support of the Batch 3a CETSOL runs.  MSL SCA-Batch 3a-ESA serves two projects investigating how different phases organize in a structure when metallic alloys are solidified.  The Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions (MICAST) experiment aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys.  The Columnar-to-Equiaxed Transition in Solidification Processing (CETSOL) experiment also aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys.
RFID-Enabled Autonomous Logistics Management-2 (RFID Recon):  The crew installed the RFID Recon Reader onto an Astrobee Free Flyer and assisted the ground teams in conducting science runs and returning the Astrobee free flyer to its original configuration.  RFID Recon uses a radio frequency identification (RFID) reader and antennas attached to a robotic free-flyer named Astrobee to identify RFID-tagged cargo on the ISS in order to determine its presence and location to help the crew find items quickly and efficiently. RFID tags are like barcodes, except they are electronic, do not require line-of-sight, and are able to respond through wireless communication.
TangoLab Mission-23:  A crewmember removed the Double Cube AIRB_IPS01 from the MERLIN facility, photo documented the Double Cube, and installed it back into the MERLIN.  TangoLab Mission-23 launches two cubes that will be attached to the TangoLab-4 unit.  MAGN_GRW06 examines the potential of sustainable crops in Space.  AIRB_IPS01 Tests the potential of human stem cells to develop and differentiate into organ-like structures in microgravity under different cultivation conditions.
The ISS Experience:  A crewmember positioned the ISS Experience EVA Z-CAM hardware for a post-EVA Checkout, removed Z-CAM Cover, and photographed the lenses.  The EVA Z-CAM hardware was then stowed following the post-EVA data download.  The ISS Experience is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station.  Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.
Systems
Deck Airlock Stowage Platform (ASP) Closeout Modifications: Today, the crew installed four 8.5″ Handrails on the newly installed ASP at four corners to protect Closeout Panels A/L1D0 and A/L1D2 corners from kick-loads. Additionally, caution labels will be attached at the four corners of Closeout Panels A/L1D0 and A/L1D2 to warn crew of kick-load concern. The crew also took photos and measurements of the Airlock Closeout Panel. The new ASP will increase the stowage capability in the A/L by approximately 10 CTBE.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Bed Cleaning Closeout: During today’s CEDRA bed leak check the crew confirmed a leak in the hardware due to a faulty O-ring. The crew was able to replace the O-ring and confirm a successful seal and leak check. The leak check was performed as a follow up to yesterday’s CDRA Desiccant Adsorbent Bed Adsorbent Cover Filter Assembly activity. CDRA maintains cabin carbon dioxide partial pressure levels within specified limits, while minimizing air and water losses to space.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed several activities in preparation for the 4A ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep EVA. The crew configured the Floating Potential Measurement Unit (FPMU) and reviewed both the EVA ISS power Augmentation Modification Kit (MODKIT) and the Suit Intravehicular (IV) briefing package. Additionally, the crew completed EVA battery operations and performed an EVA robotics review using the Portable Onboard Computers (POC) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) software. The 4A IROSA Prep EVA is scheduled for Sunday, September 12th.
Crew Dragon On-Board Training (OBT): The crew completed Crew Dragon Free-Flight Depress and Fire response contingency OBTs. The crew routinely completes emergency OBTs to maintain their proficiency in the event of an ISS or crewed vehicle contingency.
Completed Task List Activities:

JAXA Hard Disk Drive (HDD) Transfer
JAXA T61p Laptop Transfer
Radio Frequency Identification Power Cycle
EVA FPMU Familiarization
EVA MODKIT Familiarization

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Initiate Airlock (A/L) Flow and Turn on A/L CCAA water Separator
Command and Control Software (CCS) Service Module Central Computer (SMCC) Data Dump
Vacuum System (VS) Limit Configuration

