
Airway Monitoring: Today the crew performed preparatory activities for the GMT 250 Airway Monitoring US Airlock Session. These activities include review of big picture words, hardware location, etc. The Airway Monitoring investigation aims to determine in detail the pulmonary nitric oxide turnover in weightlessness and in combined weightless, hypobaric and hypoxic environments as well as determining the lung diffusion capacity for nitric oxide. With dust particles present in the ISS atmosphere, this investigation studies the occurrence and indicators of airway inflammation in crewmembers, using ultra-sensitive gas analyzers to analyze exhaled air. This will help to identify health impacts and support maintenance of crewmember well-being on future human spaceflight missions, such as to the Moon and Mars, where crewmembers will have to be more self-sufficient in identifying and avoiding such conditions.
Atomization: Today the crew successfully removed the used syringe and water trap from Atomization Operation Equipment (AOE). The Atomization experiment investigates the disintegration processes of a low-speed water jet for various jet issue conditions in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to validate the new atomization concept by observing the process using a high-speed camera. The knowledge gained can be applied to improve various engines utilizing spray combustion. 
Electro-Magnetic Levitator (EML): Today the crew installed a new (next generation) High-Speed Camera Controller in EML which is located in the European Drawer Rack (EDR).  They also installed a new hard disc with more storage capacity. The activity was not fully completed, however, due to incompatible threads between the fasteners of the electrical connectors and the camera controller; the facility was placed in a good temporary configuration while ground teams considering the forward plan. The EML is a multi-user facility is designed for containerless materials processing in space. It supports research in the areas of meta-stable states and phases along with the measurement of high-accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys at high temperatures.
EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station (EXPRESS) rack 5: Today the crew successfully replaced the EXPRESS Rack 5 lower payload valve. This is the second EXPRESS Rack 5 valve that was replaced following indications of a leak from the Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM); the first valve was replaced successfully on 23-August. Of note, a successful recovery of EXPRESS Rack 5 will allow installation of the Plant Habitat Science Carrier #2 and subsequent resumption of science in the facility.
Radi-N2 Neutron Field Study (Radi-N2): Today the eight detectors were retrieved from the Russian crew and deployed in the JPM1D5 area. This Canadian Space Agency investigation measures neutron radiation levels in the ISS. These bubble detectors are designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
SpaceTex-2 and Metabolic Space:  A crewmember donned Thermolab equipment, a heart rate monitor, and a SpaceTex material 3 shirt for ESA’s SpaceTex-2 investigation.  He also donned Metabolic Space equipment and completed an exercise session using the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).  SpaceTex fabrics provide a higher rate of sweat evaporation and a corresponding higher evaporative heat loss compared to conventional cotton fabrics used by astronauts on the ISS.  Metabolic Space provides a technology demonstration for a measurement system worn by astronauts that supports cardio-pulmonary diagnosis during physical activities of astronauts living onboard the ISS, while maintaining unrestricted mobility. 
Service Module (SM) ISS Reboost: Tonight at 7:50 PM CT, the ISS will perform a 13-second reboost using the SM main engines. This reboost is the second in a series of three burns to set up proper phasing for 54S landing on October 4th and 56S launch on October 11th, which will use the 4-orbit rendezvous profile. ISS velocity will be increased by 0.20 meters per second (m/s) during tonight’s reboost.     
Environmental Health System (EHS) Microbial Air and Surface Sampling: Today the crew took surface and air samples for microbial analysis using the Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) and Surface Sample Kit (SSK). Both samples will be placed into a Petri Dish and allowed to incubate approximately five days for future analysis. The EHS monitors the ISS environment for gaseous contaminants from off-gassing, combustion products, and propellants as well as microbial contaminants from crewmembers and ISS activities.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations: Last night, the Robotics Ground Controllers (ROBO) performed the Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload/Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA) checkouts on both string and diagnostics on only the prime string as required to meet H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) 7 Launch Commit Criteria. Then, the ROBO performed a checkout of the SSRMS Force and Moment Sensor (FMS) for Wrist Roll compensation.  Finally, the SSRMS was maneuvered to the start position of the Columbus Survey, to be performed later today. The European Space Agency (ESA) has requested an optical impact survey of the outer surface of the Columbus module with emphasis on the forward-and zenith-facing areas. This status check will verify the status of the Columbus meteoroid and debris protection system (MDPS) and obtain information on the space debris and meteoroid environment of the ISS. MSS performance remains nominal.
Nacho Service Pack: Yesterday, ground specialists successfully reloaded various Space Station Computers (SSCs) with the Nacho Service Pack. Controllers will continue reloading additional SSCs during crew sleep tonight and are scheduled to complete installation of the Service Pack tomorrow during the workday. One of the many updates included in the Nacho Service Pack are crew accounts for the 56S and 57S crewmembers as well as an upgrade to Microsoft Office 2016.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Solar Array Maximum Power Output Test (Channels 3B, 1A, 2A, 1B)
SSRMS Ops: Columbus Zenith MDSP Survey Part 1 [Planned overnight]
Reboost [Planned at 249/00:50 GMT]

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Thursday, 09/06:
Payloads

Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) Experiment 3 RNA Run
Rodent Research-7 Habitat Camera Clean
Team Task Switching Experiment Survey
Airway Monitoring US Airlock setup

Systems

JEM Exposed Facility High Definition TV Camera Unit install on EFU Adapter on JEM AL Slide Table
HTV Prep: HTV ROBOT training session 1
EVA Prep: EVA DOUG review, CWC-I degas,  EVA Tool Configuration, Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-Board Training
Ground SSRMS Ops: SSRMS Walkoff to Node 2, SPDM Relocate and maneuver to HTV offset grapple position

Friday, 09/07: 
Payloads

Airway Monitoring US Airlock session
MSG Setup for Rodent Research-7 Session 2

Systems

HTV Prep:  Offset Grapple Training
EVA Prep:  Initiate Long Life Battery (LLB) charging
Ultrasound Eye Exams
JEM Airlock Depress and Vent

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluation Setup
Airway Monitoring Big Picture Words Read
Check network settings on Laptop RSK2.
T2 SSC Wired to Wireless
Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluation
Metabolic Space equipment connection and calibration
Atomization syringe removal
Nacho Load Prep
Periodic Health Status (PHS) Stow Hardware
Thermolab instrumentation for Spacetex-2
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Surface Sample Kit (SSK) Collection/Incubation
FGB Gas Analyzer Vacuum Cleaning
EXPRESS Rack-5 Rotate
Metabolic Space instrumentation
CEVIS exercise session for MetabolicSpace and Spacetex-2 experiments
BIOCARD. Experiment Session
ER5 Payload Valve R&R
MetabolicSpace de-instrumentation
Thermolab de-instrumentation for Spacetex-2
T61p installation for Metabolic Space
Metabolic Space data transfer and equipment stowage
СТТС Configuration for MRM1 comm
SEPARATSIYA. Flushing Centrifugal Multi-Purpose Vacuum Distiller (ЦМВД) and Urine Circulation Loop. Auto distillation of water with pre-treat solution.
T61p stowage
MATRYOSHKA-R. Prep and Initialization of Bubble-Dosimeter Detectors
EXPRESS Rack-5 Rotate Up
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test [Deferred] 
EXPRESS Rack-5 Plant Habitat Photo
Clean Bench (CB) Valve Checkout
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons Hardware Handover
US SSC Wireless to Wired
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeter detectors to USOS
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter initialization and deployment for exposure
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Kit Sample Collection
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
Installation of new High-Speed Camera Controller Installation of next generation High Speed Camera Controller into EML in EDR
Comm reconfig for nominal ops
Handover of 5.5 mm Screwdriver from Russian to USOS crew for EML HSC Installation
Airway Monitoring Big Picture Words Read
Lighting Effects Light Meter Setup
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Airlock Unstow
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ (КОВ) for Elektron-VM or ЕДВ-СВ
Lighting Effects Light Meter Readings
24-hour ECG Recording (termination)
24-hour BP recording (terminate)
СОЖ maintenance
Lighting Effects Light Meter Stow
VIZIR. Experiment Ops using СКПФ-У PL.
Airway Monitoring PPFS reconfiguration
Airway Monitoring Hardware Location
Deploy PS-120 JUNCTION BOX into Air Lock to support Airway Monitoring activity.
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
СТТС Configuration for MRM2
ALBEDO. Prep, photo and closeout operations
Metabolic Space data transfer and equipment stowage
Nacho Load Prep
СТТС reconfiguration in MRM2
Handover  from USOS to Russian Crew of 5.5 mm Screwdriver used for EML HSC Installation
Fundoscope Prep
On-Board Training (OBT) HTV OBT Conference
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Platform Grip Tape Trim and Pulley inspection
Fundoscope Setup
USOS Window Shutter Close
Eye Exam – Fundoscope
Fundoscope Tear Down and Stow
ECON-L. Observations and photo
Monitoring shutter closure on windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14

 