09-07-2010September 07, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 09/07/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  At wake-up, CDR Alex Skvortsov conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson, FE-4 Wheelock & FE-6 Walker continued their new week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 4th for Doug & Shannon, 8th for Tracy, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Wheelock & Walker continued their second six-day SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) sessions, which entails a series of diet intake loggings, body mass measurements and blood & urine samplings in two session blocks.  Doug is now on the High Salt diet, with daily diet log entries, Shannon on Low Salt.  FE-4 today set up the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) for tomorrow’s session which will involve taking measurements of body mass (BMM) with the SLAMMD.      [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Wheels & Shannon are ingesting special diet (for Wheels: Session 1 – Low salt diet; Session 2 – High salt diet which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level; for Shannon: first High salt, then Low salt).  SOLO Diet starts with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are logged daily on sheets stowed in the PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer) Consumable Kit in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) on Days 4 & 6.  Blood samples are taken on Day 5, centrifuged & inserted in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) and also measured with the PCBA.  24-hr urine collections will be performed on Day 5, with sample insertion in MELFI.    Background:   SOLO, a NASA/ESA-German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 & MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]  For tomorrow’s SOLO SLAMMD activities in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory, loc. F4), Shannon Walker removed stowage at D4 that blocked access to F4.  In preparation for her first CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment) test run (the 21st aboard ISS), FE-6 Walker took ~30 min to study CFE reference & procedural material, then set up the hardware, prepared the MWA (Maintenance Work Area), secured the CFE hardware on the MWA (work surface only), and positioning the HD camcorder.    [CFE is a suite of fluid physics experiments that investigate capillary flows and flows of fluids in containers with complex geometries.  CFE takes advantage of the station’s micro-G environment to investigate the special dynamics of capillary flow, i.e., the interaction of liquid with solid that can draw a fluid up a narrow tube and can be exploited to control fluid orientation so that fluid systems on spacecraft perform predictably.  Interest is in the critical wetting angles for various container geometries and determination of the hysteresis to a higher accuracy than before.  CFE results will have applications to management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions, and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  The last CFE session, the 20th, was conducted by Tracy Caldwell-Dyson on 7/13-7/18.]  In preparation for Progress M-07M/39P docking on Friday, Alexander Skvortsov & Mikhail Kornienko went through the standard 3-hr refresher training for the TORU teleoperator system, which provides a manual backup mode to the Progress’ KURS automated rendezvous radar system.  A tagup with a TORU instructor at TsUP/Moscow via S-band audio supported the training.     [The drill included procedure review, rendezvous, docking data and rendezvous math modeling data review, fly-around, final approach, docking and off-nominal situations (e.g., video or comm loss).  Three different flight conditions were simulated on the RSK1 laptop.  The TORU teleoperator control system lets a SM-based crewmember perform the approach and docking of automated Progress vehicles in case of KURS failure.  During spacecraft approach, TORU is in “hot standby” mode.  Receiving a video image of the approaching ISS, as seen from a Progress-mounted docking television camera (“Klest”), on a color monitor (“Simvol-Ts”, i.e. “symbol center”) which also displays an overlay of rendezvous data from the onboard digital computer, the CDR would steer the Progress to mechanical contact by means of two hand controllers, one for rotation (RUO), the other for translation (RUD), on adjustable armrests.  The controller-generated commands are transmitted from the SM's TORU control panel to the Progress via VHF radio.  In addition to the Simvol-Ts color monitor, range, range rate (approach velocity) and relative angular position data are displayed on the “Klest-M” video monitor (VKU) which starts picking up signals from Progress when it is still approximately 8 km away.  TORU is monitored in real time from TsUP over Russian ground sites (RGS) and via Ku-band from Houston, but its control cannot be taken over from the ground.  On 9/10, Progress KURS-A (active) will be activated at 6:59am EDT on Daily Orbit 1 (DO1), SM KURS-P (passive) two minutes later.  Progress floodlight will be switched on at a range of ~8 km.  Progress TORU will activate at 3 km range.  Flyaround to the SM aft (+X) port (~400 m range, in sunlight) starts at 8:12am, followed by station keeping at 170m at ~8:22pm.  Start of final approach: ~8:26am (DO2) in sunlight, contact: ~8:37am.  SM Kurs-P deactivation on mechanical capture.  Sunset: 8:42am.]  After the TORU OBT (Onboard Training), Yurchikhin worked on the RSK-1 laptop, restoring it to software version 2.3 by loading its hard drive from a CD.   With the LK-2 video camera battery for the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment freshly recharged, Fyodor assembled & installed the payload hardware and later conducted the measurement session from SM window #9 at a specific time (8:05am-8:35am), recording atmospheric thunderstorm radiation spectra.  Afterwards (10:00am-10:40am), the equipment was taken down and stowed.    [Using the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment is designed for spectral observations of the Earth atmosphere and surface, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  Today’s thunderstorm measurements involved UV-range measurement of formations radiation during global electro-magnetic processes in the upper atmosphere.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]  CDR Skvortsov & FE-3 Kornienko completed their first preliminary orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test session with the Russian Chibis suit, conducting the MedOps MO-4 exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill, each crewmember taking turns as Subject and CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Alex was supported in his one-hour session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 11:48am-12:05pm, Mikhail at 1:23pm-1:39pm EDT.     [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Romanenko’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  Data output includes blood pressure readings.]   FE-6 Walker conducted the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) in Node-3, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.    [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB stick for downlink, and the data were also logged.]  After setting up the LFTP (Low Flow Transfer Pump), Shannon Walker offloaded condensate water from a CWC (Contingency Water Container, #1094) to the WPA WWT (Water Processor Assembly Waste Water Tank) for processing.     [The operation took an estimated 3h 20m.]  FE-6 also started another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS ( Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.   [This was the 20th session with the GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware].  Continuing her support of the SAME (Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment) payload in the COL, FE-6 Walker activated the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) and started up the next (13th) run of the SAME (Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment).      [Steps included powering up the MLC (MSG Laptop Computer) and changing out the SAME sample in the carousel (with all 6 preloaded carousels processed, the individual samples on each carousel now need exchanging).  The MSG tape is exchanged after every second carousel is processed.  After a ~7.5 hr run, FE-6 performed the scheduled shutdown of the MSG and experiment.]   FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson & FE-4 Wheelock worked several hours jointly swapping the AR (Atmosphere Revitalization) Racks to their permanent locations:  AR1 was returned to the US Lab and AR2 was moved into Node-3.  This provides the station with two active CDRAs (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assemblies).      [To make room for the transfers, the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) Kabin and the CEVIS cycle ergometer were removed temporarily, with Walker taking Wheels’ place for the Kabin re-installation.  The crew was able to move the racks without disconnecting the ALTEA (Anomalous Long Term Effects on Astronauts Dosimetry) hardware.]  Before the AR transfers, Wheelock installed the orange-colored snubber alignment guides (4) at the T2 treadmill to protect the exercise device.  Afterwards, before first exercised run, the guides were removed again by Caldwell-Dyson.  If the MCA (Major Constituent Analyzer) on AR2 required a pumpout/calibration (per ground determination), Shannon Walker was to open the manual valve (HV01) and later close it again.    [The MCA is used as primary device for accurately monitoring oxygen (O2) and carbon dioxide (CO2) in the cabin air.]   Alex Skvortsov performed the periodic (monthly) functional closure test of the Vozdukh CO2 (carbon dioxide) removal system’s spare AVK emergency vacuum valves, in the spare parts kit.     [The AVKs are crucial because they close the Vozdukh's vacuum access lines in the event of a malfunction in the regular vacuum valves (BVK) or a depressurization in the Vozdukh valve panel (BOA).  Access to vacuum is required to vent CO2 during the regeneration of the absorbent cartridges (PP).]  Afterwards, during overflight of ground site RGS-21 at 10:18am-10:28am, Skvortsov conducted another STTS comm test session, today over the STTS UKV2 (VHF-2) radio channel, similar to yesterday’s check of UKV2.   [RGS-21 Djusail (DJS) is located at 45.7N, 63.5E.]  Doug Wheelock went through the regular monthly session (his 3rd) of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on intravenous (IV) fluid infusion.   [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]   Afterwards, Wheels conducted the T+5 day visual microbial (bacterial & fungal) analysis & data recording of surface & air samples collected by Tracy on 9/2 in Lab, SM, Node-1, Node-3 & Kibo JPM with the Microbiology SSK (Surface Sampling Kit) and MAS (Microbial Air Sampler).     [The colony growth on the sampling slides is inspected visually after five days of incubation, using a special procedure to analyze the SSK media slides for bacterial & fungal colony growths.  Tomorrow, Doug is scheduled for the T+5 analysis of the 24 nominal samples collected by Tracy]  Kornienko performed air sampling, employing the Russian AK-1M adsorber in the SM and FGB, as well as the IPD-CO Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the SM cabin air for CO (Carbon Monoxide).  The samplers were stowed for subsequent return to Earth.  FE-5 Yurchikhin completed the periodic refresh of the IUS AntiVirus program in the Russian VKS auxiliary (non-network) laptops RSS1, RSK1, RSK2, RSE1, which are not loaded from the ground, from a special software program working with Norton AV on the FS (File Server) laptop, first scanning the latter, then transferring the database by flash-card to the other computers and scanning them one by one.     [Only the RSS2 laptop is automatically updated (once a week on Fridays from MCC-Houston).]  Wheelock gathered & verified specific hardware items and tools required for upcoming activities with the SODI-COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument – Colloid) payload, setting up the equipment early to maximize crew time on the experiment run.  To prepare and make room for the upcoming relocation of the CHeCS RSR (Crew Health Care Systems Resupply Stowage Rack) to rack bay D4 in the Lab, Walker had about an hour to shuffle stowage items, i.e., clean out cargo stowed at D4 and transfer it to other locations.    Alex did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Mikhail completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Misha also set up and readied the PZE MO-9 equipment for another Russian “Urolux” biochemical urine testing, scheduled tomorrow for all three Russian crewmembers.    [MO-9 is conducted regularly every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for US crewmembers for IMG (Integrated Medical Group) PHS evaluation as part of the "PFE w/o Blood Labs" exam.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally for the Mir program.  The data are then entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software.]  FE-5 Yurchikhin had ~1.5 hrs for shooting onboard video with the SONY HVR-Z7E camcorder for the Roskosmos TV Studio and TV Channel Telenyanya (TV baby-sitter), a joint children production dedicated to space.     [Fyodor’s footage is scheduled today and on 9/9 (Thursday) for 3 scenes, i.e., the first 3 weekly episodes.]  Before sleeptime tonight, Fyodor sets up the Russian MBI-12 payload and starts his 6th Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5 & FE-6 were scheduled for their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Alex at ~10:35am, Tracy at ~11:20am, Mikhail at ~12:25pm, Shannon at ~12:40pmk, Fyodor at ~1:10pm EDT.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-4, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3/2x, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2).     [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after the last T2 session of the day; it is now being done only once a week after the last T2 session.]  Progress 37P Thruster Control:   US-21 Matching Unit control of Progress 37P thrusters via SM was successfully restored last night.  This re-established roll control of the ISS using 37P thrusters instead of SM jets (which were disabled).  37P is docked to DC1 Nadir, most efficient for roll control.  Progress 39P Launch Preps:   At the Baikonur/Kazakhstan Cosmodrome, preparations continue for the launch of the Progress M-07M/39P cargo vehicle to the ISS.  Countdown is proceeding nominally toward a launch tomorrow (9/8) at 7:11am EDT for an 8:37am docking on 9/10 (Friday).   L-1 activities are currently being conducted.  Progress M-07M will deliver 1,918 pounds of propellant, 110 pounds of oxygen & air, 375 pounds of water and 2,645 pounds of spare parts & experiment hardware.    No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  