
60 Soyuz (60S) Unmanned Undock and Landing: 60S undocked from the Service Module (SM) Aft port today at 1:13 PM CT and is planned to land this afternoon in Kazakhstan at ~4:35 PM CT. The flight test objectives include:

Test a modernized guidance, navigation and control system as well as an entry control system.
Verify the integration of the Soyuz spacecraft with the Soyuz-2.1a rocket.
Aid in the development of an uncrewed vehicle for return of cargo to the ground from the Russian Segment.

At Home in Space: The crew participated in an At Home in Space session. This Canadian Space Agency investigation assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the spacecraft by creating a home in space. At Home in Space also uses questionnaires to investigate individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth.
Acoustic Diagnostics: The crew set up the Acoustic Diagnostics equipment, executed the otoacoustic measurements, and used the EveryWear app to complete Acoustic Diagnostics questionnaire. The investigation tests the hearing of ISS crewmembers before, during, and after flight. This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
ISS Experience: The goal of this session was recording one crewmember giving another crewmember a briefing on key safety procedures. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Repository: The crew performed urine and blood collections in support of the repository investigation.  Repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Life Support Rack (LSR) Filter Replacement: The crew replaced the wastewater filter insert with a unit that should be more resistant to blockage from gas in the liquid stream. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. It captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR will operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Space Moss: The crew detached the plant experiment unit from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) micro-G incubator unit and setup the Space Moss Sample on the Microscope for observation. Environmental Response and Utilization of Mosses in Space – Space Moss – grows mosses aboard the space station, and on Earth, to determine how microgravity affects their growth, development, gene expression, photosynthetic activity, and other features. Tiny plants without roots, mosses need only a small area for growth, an advantage for their potential use in space and future bases on the Moon or Mars.
H-II Vehicle (HTV)-8 Robotics Onboard Trainer (RoBOT) On-Board Training (OBT): The crew practiced a 30 meter approach and two Capture Point hold runs followed by self study in preparation for HTV8 launch scheduled on September 10 and capture on September 14. 
Completed Task List Activities:

Wanted poster: vacuum bags
EVA BSA ops terminate
EVA camera bracket locate
EVA ECWS OBT
Wanted poster: dial torque wrench, ¼” drive
Handover questionnaire
Slime Cupola photo

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


HTV RoBOT OBT support
Payloads ops support

Saturday, 9/7 (GMT 250)
Payloads:


Repository
Space Moss observation

Systems:

Crew off duty; housekeeping

Sunday, 9/8 (GMT 251)
Payloads:


Repository
Standard Measures
Microgravity Crystals day 9 observation

Systems:

Crew off duty

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection 25 Minutes Subject
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Configuration
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Spin Conclude
HRF Generic MELFI Sample Insertion
At Home In Space Questionnaire Verision 2 Subject
Space Moss Sample Observation Setup 2
ISS HAM Radio Power Down in Service Module
Removal of Waste Water Filter
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) weekly conference (S-band)
Standard Measures Cognition Testing HRF PC 2
BIOPLENKA. Cryogem-03 Removal
Life Support Rack (LSR) Setup Configuration
Standard Measures Cognition Testing HRF PC 2
HRF Generic Urine Collection Setup
Fluid Shifts Hardware USOS Disconnect
Food Acceptability Survey
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
Life Support Rack (LSR) Line and Filter Flush
On-board Training (OBT) HTV Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 1
Fluid Shifts Hardware USOS Gather
Fluid Shifts Hardware RSOS Transfer
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Service Module Setup
Life Support Rack (LSR) Final Configuration for Filters and Lines
FLUID SHIFTS. Connecting Ultrasound Equipment to РБС
ISS Experience Microphone Don
ISS Experience Social Moments Recording
ISS Experience Hardware Relocate
On-board Training (OBT) HTV Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session
ISS Experience Hardware Stow
ISTOCHNIK-M. Preparations for carrying out measurements
ISTOCHNIK-M. Moding Soyuz 743 telemetry to recording
ISTOCHNIK-M. Closeout Ops
Reminder HRF Generic Urine Collection
Reminder Rodent Research Thermal Consideration
Record ESA PAO Message European Researchers Night
Record ESA PAO Message Space Chronicles with Luca Parmitano (W36)
HRF Generic Urine Collection Female

 