09-01-2012September 01, 2012
ISS On-Orbit Status 09/01/12 

All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      Saturday – Crew off duty. 

CDR Padalka performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection. 

Gennady also conducted the periodic checkup of the circuit breakers & fuses in the DC1 Pirs Docking Compartment.      [The monthly checkup in DC1, MRM1 & MRM2 looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 & BPP-36.  MRM2 & MRM1 were derived from the DC1 concept and are very similar to it.] 

FE-2 Sergei Revin serviced the BTKh-26 KASKAD experiment, extracting the top of the bioreactor (#6) from the TBU-V incubator (+29 degC), shaking it with “moderately strong” movements for 2 minutes without taking it out of the case and inserting it again in TBU-V.      [Started on 8/23, this activity is being carried out for 21 days, once in the morning and once in the evening.] 

Padalka, Revin, Acaba, Malenchenko, Williams & Hoshide joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including all USOS (US Orbit Segment) modules like Lab, Nodes, COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.] 

FE-6 Hoshide performed the regular (~weekly) inspection & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 & O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes. 

FE-4 Malenchenko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] 

At ~8:55am EDT, the entire crew held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  

At ~10:55am, Suni Williams powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 11:05am conducted a ham radio session with students at the National Electronics Museum (NEM), Linthicum, MD.       [NEM, located just outside Baltimore, Maryland, is home to the country’s largest collection of historic defense electronics, including radar, radios, electronic countermeasures, sonar, and space sensors. The museum also has objects derived from defense electronics like the Apollo 11 camera and early GPS equipment. The students are Junior and Senior schoolers from the local Baltimore area. They have completed a six-week amateur radio course and are now licensed hams. As part of their training, they used an AMSAT satellite to make a contact.  Their first contact as hams was today, with the ISS.] 

At ~12:00pm, Sunita Williams had her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop). 

 

The crew worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration stabilization (FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (CDR, FE-2/2x, FE-3, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4)     [FE-6 & FE-5 are on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval & continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Friday.  If any day is not completed, Suni & Aki pick up where they left off, i.e., they would be finishing out the week with the last day of exercise on her off day.  Suni’s protocol for today was on ARED/CEVIS (continuous), with CEVIS (interval, 2 min.), ARED/CEVIS (cont.), CEVIS (int., 30 s.), ARED/T2 or CEVIS (cont.), T2 or CEVIS (int., 4 m.) & T2 Kinematics for the next 6 days. Aki’s protocol for today showed CEVIS (interval, 2 min.), ARED/CEVIS (aerobic, cont.), CEVIS (int. 30 sec), ARED/CEVIS & T2 or CEVIS (int., 4 min.) for the next 4 days.] 

 

Before his first exercise run on the TVIS treadmill, Joe Acaba observed Yuri Malenchenko’s workout on the machine and then formatted a PCMCIA (Portable Computer Memory Card International Adapter) memory card for his own TVIS exercise program. 

 

Due to power limitations with the current 3-MBSU jumper configuration, T2/COLBERT has been powered down because it is a big power draw on Channel 4. For the time being, T2 sessions have been rescheduled as CEVIS for Suni, Aki & Joe, and TVIS for Gennady. 

 

Tasks listed for Revin, Malenchenko & Padalka on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were – 
·        More preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb), and
·        A detailed & general view photo session with TEKh-52 Vizir of the flooding which occurred overnight on 8/21-22 at the Black Sea;   [the disaster zone includes the towns Novomikhalovsky, Lermontovo and Tenginka, the Shapsukho & Nechepsukho river valleys and the adjacent mountain region.  Novomikhalovsky is located on the Tuapse-Novorossiisk Highway, 33 km from Tuapse and 14 km from Dzubgi. The town is situated in the Nechepsukho river valley and its tributary Psebe, where Nechepsukho is falling into Mikhalovsky Bay in the Black Sea. As a result of torrential rain the Nechepsukho River flooded.  600 houses, a hospital and a school were in the disaster zone. Four people died, 1500 were affected, including 275 children.  Municipal infrastructures need to be restored. Lermontovo is located on the shores of Tenginsky Bay of the Black Sea, at the inflow of Shapsukho River. The valley of that river is approx. 40 km in length, 5 km to the east of Dzubgi on the Tuapse-Novorosskiisk highway and 55 km from Tuapse. The Tenginka village is located 4 km upriver], and

·        Recording high-resolution video with the SONY HVR-Z7E to be used in a joint project of Roskosmos TV Studio with Karusel (Carousel) TV Channel for children ages 8 to 12 years, the “It’s Time to go to space!” program, which has a segment where Russian cosmonauts are discussing their work &, answer viewers’ questions; the footage was then to be downlinked to TsUP-Moscow.
MBSU1 Update:   With the current configuration, ISS is in a stable but non-optimal power configuration. MCC-H flight controllers are managing the loads and making adjustments as necessary for specific requests.  A second spacewalk, EVA-19, is being planned for as early as Tuesday, 9/4, to attempt to install & connect MBSU1. SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) capability is required for the MBSU translations, but there will not be a certified SSRMS operator on board after Soyuz 30S departure (9/16) and prior to 32S arrival (10/17). Hardware teams are working to determine what caused the failure and propose alternate methods, including assessing any additional available tools, to seat the MBSU bolts. The crew has a full day off today and will start EVA preps tomorrow (Sunday), with procedure review, conferences & suit checks, with final procedure review and tool configuration on Monday (U.S. Labor Day). Post-EVA events will be replanned as required. Due to issues with cooling loop temperatures in Aki’s EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) on 8/30, the suit was declared NoGo, and Suni & Aki resized replacement suits yesterday: Suni will be using a large-size EMU adjusted to “medium size”, and Aki will don the medium-size EMU Suni used on EVA-18. Also, NASA has asked JAXA to evaluate a delay of HTV3 (H-II Transfer Vehicle 3) unberthing until the week of 9/16 to relieve the onboard timeline.
