
Lighting Effects: The crew completed a visual assessment test in the Crew Quarters (CQs) by setting the light to the correct mode, turning all other light sources in the CQ off, and performing one Numerical Verification Test and one Color Discrimination Test. The crew will then photograph the completed tests, before transferring the photos for downlink. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
Multi-Omics-Mouse:  Today the crew performed routine maintenance operations by filling the transportation cage units with water and refilling the camera washer water of the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit located in the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF).  Several studies have reported space flight effects on the human immune system, but the relationship between microbiota and immune dysfunction during flight remains unclear. In the Multi-Omics-Mouse investigation, food with and without fructooligosaccharides (FOS) will be used as prebiotics, to determine if they improve the gut environment and immune function.  After the flight, researchers will analyze the gut environment (microbiota and metabolites) and immune system of the mice by multi-omics analysis.
Rodent Research 9 (RR-9):  In support of the on-going RR-9 investigation, the crew restocked the Animal Habitat Units with new food bars and cleaned the lid and interior cages. RR-9 studies how microgravity affects the immune systems, muscles and bones of rodents during extended stays aboard the ISS.  After approximately 30 days aboard the ISS, the mice will be returned to Earth where scientists on the ground will study how their time in space has affected various tissues, including brain, muscle, heart, joints, eyes and the immune system. 
MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS) Electronic Unit Removal: While removing the failed spare Electronic Unit from MELFI-1, which will be 1 of 2 units returned on SpX-12.; the crew found corrosion on the fluid line connector. This activity has been paused until the ground teams can determine a forward plan of action. The MELFI is a cold storage unit that maintains experiment samples at ultra-cold temperatures until those samples can be returned to the ground for analysis.
Space Headaches:  The crew completed weekly questionnaires for the ESA Space Headaches investigation today.  The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

ACME Lens Inspection
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
Combustion Integrated Rack MWA Containment System STOW
Flight Director/ISS CREW CONFERENCE
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
iPad iOS update
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry – Subject
Lighting Effects Visual Performance Tests Light Setting – Subject
MELFI # Electronic Unit Removal for Packing
Multi-Omics-Mouse Cage Maintenance for Water 5
Multi-Omics-Mouse Transportation Cage Unit Preparation 2
Polar Desiccant Pack Swap
TV -conference with the participants of science conference “Future of Medicine – 2017” (Ku + S-band)
PAO hardware setup. Video/Audio check. 
Rodent Research 9 Access Unit Clean
Rodent Research 9 Habitat 3 & 4 Restock
SARCOLAB crew conference
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) weekly conference
Установка видеооборудования для съемки ФУ на БД-2
Removal of Video Equipment Used to capture БД-2 Exercise and Downlink the file
On MCC GO БД-2 Test (Exercise Day 3 Cycle)
Changeout of ПФ1 & ПФ2 Dust Filters (ФГБ1ПГО_2_224_1 bag 436-26 (00071452R). Update IMS) and Cleaning В1, В2 Fan Screens in DC1
СОЖ maintenance
External inspection and photography [СКВ1] acoustic and thermal insulation.
Scheduled ВП-2 Pilot’s Sight Test (СМ1РО_1_113_1).
Health Check of the Wide Angle Vertical Sight (ВШТВ) (СМ1РО_1_110_111 Drawer Central Post Small Recess) 
IDENTIFICATION. Copy ИМУ-Ц micro-accelerometer data to laptop

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

None

