
MBSU I-Level Maintenance:  In early August, ground teams successfully transferred a degraded Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) from External Stowage Platform 2 (ESP2) site 4 to the JEM Airlock. Today, the crew removed the MBSU from the JEM A/L and performed Intermediate Level (I-Level) maintenance on the unit.  This MBSU is one of two failed units externally stowed on orbit that will be brought inside to undergo maintenance and repair. 
Lighting Effects: This morning a crewmember provided a sleep log entry for the Lighting Effects investigation. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. Fluorescent bulbs are being replaced with solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) that have adjustable intensity and color. Investigators will determine if the new lights improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Camera Inspections: After completing routine inspections of the LMM Confocal Unit, LMM Confocal Camera, LMM Wide-field Camera, and the LMM Observation Camera for shattered materials, the crew reported that no damage was found to the equipment.  The Light Microscopy Module (LMM) is a modified commercial, highly flexible, state-of-the-art light imaging microscope facility that provides researchers with powerful diagnostic hardware and software onboard the International Space Station (ISS). The LMM enables novel research of microscopic phenomena in microgravity, with the capability of remotely acquiring and downloading digital images and videos across many levels of magnification. The way that matter is organized and moves on the microscopic level profoundly affects the macroscopic world and an understanding of such processes helps scientists and engineers build more efficient materials and machines both for both the earth and space environments.
MAGVECTOR: The crew configured the power supply and supporting equipment prior to initiating the 13th experiment run of the MAGVECTOR investigation, which ends Thursday of next week.  MAGVECTOR investigates how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research not only helps improve future International Space Station experiments and electrical experiments, but it could offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general, the backbone of our technology.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Nitrogen Manual Valve Close
At Home In Space Culture Photo
CB/ISS CREW CONFERENCE
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Install
ESA Weekly crew conference
ESA-PAO-RAI PRIX
Handover Feedback Questions
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ)
In Flight Maintenance Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) Check Out
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) Repair
IMS Delta file prep
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Retraction from JPM Side
LMM Camera Inpsection
LMM Maintenance Work Area Containment System Setup
ACE MWA Preparation
Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry – Subject
Preparing For Upcoming MagVector Science Run
Joint Station Local Area Network (LAN) (JSL) Network Information for JSL Administration (NINJA) Print
Recorded Greeting Request
Structures & Mechanisms (S&M) JEM ORU XFER I/F INSPECTION
Structures and Mechanisms (S&M) JEM ORU Xfer I/F (JOTI) Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) Install
Structures and Mechanisms (S&M) JEM ORU Xfer I/F (JOTI) Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) Remove
Station Support Computer (SSC) 5 Return
Tropical Cyclone Hardware Closeout
Tropical Cyclone Untended Operations
Tear Down of Remote RS Laptop Setup. Tagup with specialists
Preparation and Configuration Setup for Remote RS Laptop on USOS. Tagup with specialists
On MCC GO Testing RS Remote Laptop with КЦП1 and КЦП2. Tagup with specialists
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ (КОВ) for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
Measuring CO level in RS using US portable CSA-CP device
СОЖ maintenance
Adjusting position of the regulator valve [КР] in the Air Conditioning System [СКВ1]. Tagup with specialists
MPEG-2 TV Downlink Test via KU-band prior to Soyuz 734 Docking to the ISS. Tagup with specialists
Cleaning FGB panel vent screens (116, 316, 231, 431)
ECON-M. Observation and photography

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

None

