
ISS Reboost: This afternoon, the ISS performed a reboost using the Aft Progress 85P rendezvous and docking (R&D) thrusters. This reboost will set up proper phasing conditions for the Soyuz 70S 2-orbit rendezvous in August. The burn was nominal with a 2.05
Payloads:
Immunity Assay: Samples were retrieved and reaction tubes were prepared for centrifuge operations in the Human Research Facility (HRF) centrifuge. After centrifuge operations, the reaction tubes were clipped and placed into cold stowage. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
SpaceWear Monitor: The SpaceWear Monitor hardware was donned for a full day data acquisition run. Data was transferred upon run completion and documentary photos were taken. The purpose of the Demonstration of a Wearable for Space and Extreme Environments (SpaceWear Monitor) technology demonstration is to prove the functionality of the Wearable Health Monitoring System by a crew member aboard the ISS.
TELe-Luminescence Analysis System (TELLAS): The Calibration Light Source hardware was installed in order to calibrate the TELLAS. The TELLAS is an experimental facility that uses luminescence and an imager to make observations of tissues/genes in small living animals. Such in-vivo observations facilitate the study of mechanisms related to aging in the microgravity environment. Installed in the Kibo module, the TELLAS facility can provide information that contributes to aging research and improves the health and longevity of people on Earth.
Systems:
Biolab Rack Transfer Preparation: Next week, the crew will transfer three Columbus (COL) racks as part of preparation for the Enhanced European Exploration Exercise Device (E4D). Today, in preparation for rack transfers, the crew configured the Biolab rack for safe relocation by deinstalling reference experiment containers, engaging manual rotor lock, closing Biolab Life Support Module O2 and CO2 bottle valves, and ensuring the Biolab Glove Box is in the retracted position. The E4D is a new crew exercise device that is designed for long-term exploration missions. Next Tuesday, the crew will transfer EDR2 from its temp stowed location at NOD2D2 to COL1A2, transfer Biolab rack from COL1A2 to COL1F3, and transfer Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) from COL1F3 to COL1D4.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub: The crew completed an EMU Hard Upper Torso (HUT) Scrubber Install and an EMU Cooling Loop Scrub. EMU loop scrubs are required preventative maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU cooling loop. The EMU is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit.
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): Today, the crew completed a Max CEVIS session which is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. The Max CEVIS activities satisfies ISS medical requirements to measure crew heart rate, electrocardiogram, and oxygen consumption.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

ISS Reboost using 85P Thrusters
S-band Telemetry Control
SECRET’s Laser Irradiation
ZBOOK SSC Clients Backup Management
EMU Loop Scrub Checkouts

