
44 Soyuz (44S) Launch: 44S launched successfully from Baikonur last night at 11:37pm CDT carrying Aidyn Aimbetov, Andreas Mogensen and Sergey Volkov to the ISS which will increase the crew complement to 9 members.  Docking is scheduled for Friday, September 4 at 2:42am CDT.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: 

Fine Motor Skills (FMS): Kornienko completed his FD160 Fine Motor Skills session.  During the Fine Motor Skills experiment crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of Fine Motor Skills is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Max: Kelly performed his Sprint VO2 Max exercise session on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).  He donned Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes, Heart Rate Monitor (HRM) hardware, and Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) calibrations then executed the VO2 protocol.  The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of investigator’s long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
Human Research Facility (HRF) Pulmonary Function System (PFS) Gas Management System (GMS) Calibration: Lindgren completed regular maintenance on the HRF PFS GMS. He set up the Gas Delivery System (GDS), started the Pulmonary Function System/Photoacoustic Analyzer Module (PFM/PAM) and performed a gas concentration verification.  Following the calibration, the crew completed a data drive mapping and transferred all files located on the partition, including setup and deactivation of the Pulmonary Function System (PFS).

 
Kubik 5 Endothelial Setup: Yui configured the Kubik5 in support of the Endothelial Cells experiment planned for the Short Duration Mission. The goal of Effects of Spaceflight on Endothelial Function: Molecular and Cellular Characterization of Interactions Between Genome Transcription, DNA Damage and Induction of Cell Senescence (Endothelial Cells) is to better understand the reaction of cultured endothelial cells to spaceflight. This is to be characterized in space-flown samples through analysis of different parameters including DNA damage, end of cell division (senescence), and variations of cell cycle combined with additional in-depth genetic analysis.  Because endothelial cells are responsible for the integrity of the vascular wall, a better understanding of the modulation of endothelial functions in space might help in the development of potential countermeasures to prevent cardiovascular deconditioning in astronauts.
 
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR)-2 Power Checkout: Yui completed a power supply checkout for Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack 2 (MSPR2) Work Volume, Small Experiment Area, Work Bench and DC/DC Converter Unit.
 
JSL Playbook Checkout: Kelly successfully tested access and functionality of the Playbook web application on both the SSC and iPad platforms. This application is scheduled to be used by Mogensen.
 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Status: Last night the crew reported a WHC Pre-Treat Bad Qual Light (PTBQL). The crew changed out the pre-treat tank which did not fix the problem and the crew was given a go to use the Russian [ACY]. Ground teams concluded that the likely issue was a failed dose pump.  Kelly Removed & Replaced (R&R) the bad pump and the WHC is now operating nominally.
 
HTV5 Cargo Transfer Status:  Lindgren and Yui completed 3 hours of HTV-5 Cargo transfer operations today.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted. 

Self-Reaction Test. Reaction Time Test (morning)
Sleep ISS-12 Experiment – Sleep Log Entry – Subject
SPRINT – Hardware Warmup
SPRINT Experiment Ops
ISS Crew / SSIPC FD Conference
ECLSS Recycle Tank Remove and Replace
JEMRMS Laptop Reboot
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) – Equipment Gathering
CBEF – Equipment Attachment
ARED Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Fine Motor Skills – Subject
CBEF- Equipment Attachment
FINEMOTR – Photography
SPRINT-PPFS – Partial Stow
HABIT – Questionnaire Completion [Deferred]
БД-2 Treadmill R&R.
OASIS – Camera Adjustment
WHC dose pump R&R
Psychological Evaluation Program (WinSCAT)
XF305 – Camcorder Setup
MSPR2 – Experiment and Closeout Ops
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
HTV Transfers Ops [Deferred]
Video Camera Assembly (VCA1) Adjustment
VCA1 Camera Adjustment
CBEF – Demating Cables
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Actiwatch Spectrum data download to ISS12 and configuration setup to continue with data gathering
СОЖ maintenance
VCA1 Camera Adjustment
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
ENDO – Hardware Setup
RGN – Start Water Transfer to EDV
CAPBEV – Preparation of Maintenance Work Area surface [Deferred]
CAPBEV – Hardware Setup [Deferred]
HRF2 – Procedure Review
ENDO – KUBIK 5 Preparation and Parameter Check
CAPBEV – Photography [Deferred]
RGN – Terminate water drain into EDV
CAPBEV – Test Ops [Deferred]
XF305 – Camcorder Setup
CBEF – Cable Connection
HRF2 – Camcorder Setup
CBEF – Cable Connection
HRF2 – Hardware Setup and Activation
CBEF- Hardware Checkout
ELT2 – Closeout Ops
CBEF – Hardware Removal
CAPBEV – Stowage
RGN REC-TNK – Removal of depress hose for nominal operations
CBEF –  Hardware Removal
Crew Checkout of the Playbook Application
CBEF – Closeout Ops
HRF2 – Hardware Test
ENERGY – Copying files to Laptop
Psychological Evaluation Program (WinSCAT) [Deferred]
HRF2 – Hardware Deactivation
SPRINT – Close-out Ops and Stowage
CMS – HRM – iPAD File Transfer
ARED Exercise Video Equipment Stowage
Crew conference with Astronaut Office
HTV – Cargo Transfer Tagup
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
ENDO – KUBIK Check
Flight Director / ISS Crew Tagup
Reaction Self-Test. Reaction Time Test (evening)

 
Completed Task List Items

N1 galley cleanup

 
Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted. 

SPRINT ops

 
