
Payloads
Astrobee: The crew performed various localization and mobility operations for the Astrobee satellite.  This was performed in support of the upcoming Kibo Robot Programming Challenge.  The Kibo Robot Programming Challenge (Robo-Pro Challenge), also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the International Space Station (ISS). This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers. This activity is based on Japan-U.S. cooperation through the Japan-US Open platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3).
MELFI1 Electronic Unit (EU) Swap:  As a recovery from the MELFI EU failure on GMT 213, the crew replaced the failed EU with a spare unit.  Following the replacement, the MELFI unit will be checked out and will begin cooling to the set point temperatures.  The Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) is a cold storage unit that maintains experiment samples at cold temperatures (+2 deg C to -95 deg C) throughout a mission.
Radi-N2: Chris retrieved the eight Radi-N2 detectors from the NODE2 Panel P3 location and handed them over to the Russian crew for processing.  The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed to detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Systems
Environmental Health System (EHS) Coliform Water Sample Analysis: Today the crew completed post processing analysis of the coliform detection bags. The water samples were acquired on GMT 246 and allowed to incubate to check for the presence of Coliform bacteria. Following the incubation period, the crew visually analyzed the coliform detection bags and recorded the results. Visual confirmation must be performed within 40-48 hours of the initial sample collection.
Completed Task List Activities:

Single Stowage Locker Prep
Audit of Pivot Pins, K-Bars and K-Bars Capture Fittings

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PCS Reboots/Log File Downlinks
S-Band Index Change
Primary C&C Monthly File Downlinks
TAS Weekly Vent/Purge
FPMU Activation

