
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS): On Sunday, the crew checked the camera alignment and focus by viewing the latest BCAT images on a laptop.  TheBCAT-CS investigation studies the forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles.  Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration. 
Sextant Navigation: Yesterday the crew performed a repeat of the fifth session for the Sextant Navigation investigation. In this repeat session, the operator and assistant roles were reversed in order to gain proficiency on both crew members. The crew collected the data and recorded the results for ground evaluation and this was reported to be the most productive session to date. This session focused on sighting position evaluation. Astronauts onboard the ISS test a hand-held sextant that is intended for use on future Orion exploration missions. The results from this investigation can aid in the development of emergency navigation methods for future manned spacecraft. Historically, Gemini missions in 1965-66 were the first to exercise sextant sightings from a spacecraft. A sextant was built into Apollo vehicles as a navigation backup in case of lost communications.
Neuromapping: A crewmember set up the Neuromapping hardware yesterday in order to perform the Flight Day 90 tests in both “strapped in” and “free floating” body configurations. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation includes use of structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
Material Science Research Rack (MSRR): Today the MSRR was activated for the first time following the removal and replacement of the Master Controller on August 29th. The activation was nominal and ground teams were able to successfully checkout the new Master Controller.  MSRR requires a successful software update to the Master Controller and a Vacuum Resource System (VRS)/Vacuum Exhaust System (VES) leak check before being used to support science runs. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub: Earlier today, the crew performed the 90-day maintenance loop scrub and iodination task on EMUs 3006, 3008, and the Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garments (LCVGs). This was the first use of the newly designed Airlock Cooling Loop Recovery (ALCLR) hardware. The ALCLR system is a suite of water processing hardware that is used to service the transport water loops in the EMU and airlock water systems. ALCLR removes ionic, organic, and particulate contamination and provides long-term microbial control through injection of activated iodine.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Today the crew completed initial configuration of the tools and hardware that will be used during the upcoming H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Battery R&R EVAs in September. Spread across several days, today’s activity completed configuration of Safety Tether Packs and EVA Wire Tie Caddies as well as ensure all EVA tools are in the proper config. The first EVA in the pair is scheduled for 20 September while the second planned EVA is scheduled on 26 September.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Rendezvous & Capture Computer Based Training (CBT): In preparation for next week’s launch of HTV-7, the crew completed on-board CBT this morning.  This comprehensive review covered the HTV-7 mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures, and the crew interfaces used to both monitor and command to the HTV spacecraft.  HTV-7 is scheduled to launch on 14 September from the Tanegashima Space Center in Japan.
On Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Emergency Drill: Today the 55S crew performed an Emergency Egress Drill.  During this drill, the 55S crew reviewed procedures needed during off-nominal situations before using the onboard trainer to practice the actions required in the event of an emergency egress and Soyuz descent. The crew also completed self-study reviews of various nominal procedures to include Sokol suit donning and leak checks. This training is scheduled every 12-14 weeks and ensures the crew is adequately prepared to respond to an on-orbit emergency.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event: Alexander Gerst participated in the European Space Agency DLR “Time Capsule” event in Berlin, Germany. The audience included more than 1000 pupils (9 to 14 years) gathered together with media and high-ranking representatives of the German federal government plus local authorities.
Nacho Service Pack: Today ground specialists reloaded Crew Space Station Computers (SSCs) 1, 3, 14, 19, 20, and 21 with the Nacho Service Pack. Tonight, they are scheduled to reload Operations SSCs 4, 5, 9, 15, 17, 18, and 22 during crew sleep. One of the many updates included in the Nacho Service Pack are crew accounts for the 56S and 57S crewmembers as well as an upgrade to Microsoft Office 2016.
Completed Task List Activities:

WHC KTO Replace [Completed GMT 244]
Toilet Funnel Evaluation [Completed GMT 244]
Food Relocate, part 6 [Completed GMT 244]

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Solar Array Maximum Power Output test (Channels 3A, 2B, 4B and 4A)
LEE A FMS Coarse Characterization on Redundant String [In Work]
JEMRMS EFU Adapter Unstow [Planned overnight]
MCC-H ISS Step Up [Planned 248/02:00 GMT]

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Wednesday, 09/05: Reboost [248/00:50 GMT]
Payloads

Atomization syringe removal
EXPRESS Rack 5 Payload Valve Replacement
MetabolicSpace and Spacetex-2 experiments
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2) deploy 8 detectors
Installation of next generation High Speed Camera Controller into EML
Airlock unstow and hardware gather in prep for Airway Monitoring Airlock session

Systems

Clean Bench (CB) Valve Checkout
MAS/SSK sample gather
Nacho Service Pack deploy, continues
Periodic Health Evaluation
Fundoscope Eye Exam
Ground SSRMS Ops: External Survey of Columbus MDPS (Part 1) 

Thursday, 09/06:
Payloads

Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) Experiment 3 RNA Run
Rodent Research Habitat Camera Clean
Team Task Switching Experiment Survey
Airway Monitoring US Airlock setup

Systems

JEM Exposed Facility High Definition TV Camera Unit install on EFU Adapter on JEM AL Slide Table
HTV Prep: HTV ROBOT training session 1
EVA Prep: EVA DOUG review, CWC-I degas,  EVA Tool Configuration, Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-Board Training
Ground SSRMS Ops: SSRMS Walkoff to Node 2, SPDM Relocate and maneuver to HTV offset grapple position

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Check and report the results of ВКС laptop anti-virus scan,
Photo TV Battery Charge Initiation
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Setup
Nacho Load Prep
JEM Airlock Depressurization
OTKLIK – hw monitoring and reboot
Wireless Compose SD Card Data Copy
Acoustic Monitor Data Transfer and Stow
On-board Training (OBT) HTV Robotics Review
GRASP stow
OCT Exam
Crew Choice Event
On-board Training (OBT) HTV Rendezvous Review
Repairs of SM Interior Panel 128 by Installing Overlay Plates – Day 2 131).
Restow of Columbus Bays 2 and 3
Microscope Reposition Post Ops
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment setup.
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Assistance with МО-3 Test
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub Initiation
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Stow
Photo TV Battery Charge Swap
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Setup And Power On Alternate
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment Ops on БД-2 Treadmill (MO-3 Test in Passive Mode).
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Closeout Ops.
JEM System Laptop Terminal Reboot
JEM Airlock Vent
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Hygiene procedure
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) in Columbus
JEM Airlock Vent Confirmation
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Post Scrub Cooling Loop Water (H2O) Sample
Preparation and activation of Crew On-orbit Support System [КСПЭ] camcorder in SM for onboard simulator video shooting in MPEG2 format during Soyuz 739 emergency descent OBT
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Battery Changeout
Daily Electro-cardiogram registration (start)
ISS Emergency descent drill.
MSRR Quick Disconnect Inspection
Photo TV Battery Charge Swap
24-hour ECG Holter Monitoring – start
СОЖ maintenance
ZBook Client Swap (SSC5 – LAB)
IMS Update
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfigration
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
Deactivation of camcorder, TV System monitoring equipment and closing applications
CALCIUM.  Experiment Session 9
US SSC Wireless to Wired
Rad Detector Rotate
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Photo TV Battery Charge Deactivation
SSC Load Preparation for Nacho Service Pack
ECON-L. Observation and Photography

 