09-04-2010September 04, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 09/04/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew rest day   At wake-up, CDR Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   The six station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   As part of the uborka house cleaning, the Russian crewmembers conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).   Fyodor Yurchikhin performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   At ~10:00am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   FE-6 Walker & FE-4 Wheelock filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   Doug powered up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and started the automated data flow, downlinking the video footage recorded yesterday of his demo session with the “Kids in Micro-G” experiment which this time featured “Liquids in Microgravity” procedures.  Afterwards, Wheels turned off MPC.      [The “Kids in Micro-G” suite of experiments was developed and written by 6th grade students to demonstrate Newton’s Laws of Motion both on ISS and in the classroom.]   Kornienko & Wheelock were scheduled for their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Misha at ~8:00am, Wheels at ~3:45pm EDT.   The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR/2x, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4, FE-6)    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after the last T2 session of the day but is now regularly being done once a week after the last T2 session.]  COL WOOV8 Update:   Tracy Caldwell-Dyson’s attempt yesterday to “unstick” the LTL WOOV8 (Low Temperature Loop / Water On/Off Valve 8) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) was not successful.  Tracy also reported a greenish substance on the bolt of the valve, which may or may not be precipitate from a slow water leak.  When dissolved in a fluid the substance is Tox level 0; as a solid residue it is generally considered Tox level 1.  To be on the safe side, FE-2 was advised to don goggles, a dust mask and silver shield gloves when deciding to clean the valve.    For the voluntary “job jar” task list of Wheelock, Walker & Caldwell-Dyson, new uplinked tasks are –  Reconfiguring Locker D2 in      Node-1 to provide more room in A/L for EVA cargo currently located outside      of the A/L,  Auditing the CCPK (Crew      Contamination Protection Kit), Cleaning up the PCS      (Portable Computer System) Crew Folder, Auditing the contents of      the Lab Locker D2 (except for the CCPK), Installing a CF Card in      the CGBA (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5), and Taking documentary      photography of the HRF2-PFS (Human Research Facility 2 Pulmonary Function      System).    Jobs listed for Skvortsov, Fyodor & Kornienko today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –  Another ~30-min. run of      the GFI-8      "Uragan"      (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera      photography with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, shooting Pamir Glacier,      large glaciers east of Lake Issyk-Kul, oil contamination in the Caspian      Sea, the Aral Sea, and extensive fires in Volgograd and Samara regions,      also hurricane development at the US east coast, and A ~30-min. session for      Russia's EKON      Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial      photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X      camera with the RSK-1      laptop, and   Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Four -- Week 13)   2-D NANO Template (JAXA):     No report.   3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):   This ISS backup radiation monitoring system remains non-operational.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    “Thank you, Tracy, for taking the photos of the BIOLAB Handling Mechanism (HM). These photos have been downlinked and are being analyzed by engineering teams.”   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    FE-6 Walker performed 2nd session on 8/31-9/1; data save complete.  FE-4 Wheelock performed 2nd session on 9/1-9/2, data save on 9/3.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    “This was the last in-flight session for the BISE experiment and it provided excellent data according to the PI team. Many thanks to you, Tracy, for a successful test.  The PI team looks forward to complete your post-flight sessions and conclude this project.”   BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    “Thank you Shannon for your hard work on CARD last week, ground teams are working on a trouble-shooting plan for the holter.”  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    On 8/30 & 9/1, eight test points from the science matrix were successfully performed:    Four test points were performed with methanol fuel at a 0.7 atm chamber environment of 21% O2, 30% CO2, and 49% N2:  Test #1 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm, with no support fiber. Droplet deployment was successful with virtually no drift. Successful ignition followed by diffusive extinction.  Test #2 - Droplet diameter of 3 mm, with no support fiber. Same as Test #1.  Test #3 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm, with support fiber and translation. Successful deployment and ignition followed by diffusive extinction.  Test #4 - Droplet diameter of 3 mm, with support fiber and translation. Droplet burned and extinguished due to water absorption.  Four test points were performed with methanol fuel at a 0.7 atm chamber environment of 20% O2, 35% CO2, and 45% N2:  Test #5 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm, with no support fiber. Droplet deployment was marginally successful with a large vapor bubble entrained in the droplet. Apparent convective extinction.  Test #6 - Droplet diameter of 3 mm, with no support fiber. Droplet deployment was successful with no apparent bubble and only a small upward drift. Convective extinction.  Test #7 - Droplet diameter of 4 mm, with support fiber and translation. Convective extinction. Very small "secondary ignition" source about 5 mm to the left of the flame.  Test #8 - Droplet diameter of 3 mm, with support fiber and translation. Convective extinction.  The new needles behaved quite well. We did have some issues with a few bubbles which slowed us down when dispensing fuel, but the fuel droplet remained in the vicinity of the needle tips (there was no tendency to wick away from the tips and up the needle arms). All of the burns were very clean, which means no disruptive burning and/or droplet explosions were observed.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.   CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    Final data collection completed on Friday, 9/3, followed by power down; last operations before HTV2 stage  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Active Measure, ESA):    No report.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA): (Kids in Space):   No report.   EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    Photo session was performed on 7/22.  . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    On 8/24 (GMT236), the next activity in the ERB-2 commissioning sequence was completed successfully.  Three ERB-2 files were downlinked to the ground, two video files which were previously recorded and one reference video.”  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   1st run was completed on 8/31.  Ferulate:    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):   No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.   HAIR (JAXA):   No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 1578 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     “Shannon,  although you were not able to record a full 24 hours of blood pressure data during last week’s session, most of the unrecorded data were during sleep and the loss of sleeping data is less of a science hit than the loss of waking data.  Analysis of the data will also be assisted by your description of the activities performed during the time that data was not collected.  The ICV team is looking forward to receiving the data on the ground next week and would like to express their sincere thanks for your extra efforts on Saturday to get as large of a data set for us as possible.”   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:   School contact with Konu Milky Way School, Miyoshi, Hiroshima, Japan successful.  Number 35 for the year and #552 since the start of the program.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:     No report.   KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Acquiring science data in JAXA’s Kibo.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    Marangoni Sample Cassette exchange was performed.  However: (1) The attached cassette on the PFEF is "MI-UVP-05" which is the previously used one.  It should be in the Jettison bag.  (2) The cassette "MI-PTV-20", which should be on the FPEF, is actually in the CTB.  (3) JAXA planned to use "MI-PAS-10" during Increment 30.  JAXA asked the crewmember to search for it.  Fortunately, the crewmember reported that it was found and put back to the CTB. Thank you for finding it so quickly.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    The schedule file uplink/upload to MAXI was successfully completed on 8/23 (GMT235) after C&C MDM switchover, and the observation with Solid State Camera was resumed.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally.  MISSE-7 is operating at reduced bandwidth until PEP R9 software patch is uploaded to the Payload MDM, currently scheduled for 9/8/2010.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.   MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   Caldwell, Wheelock, and Walker performed on 8/30.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.   NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADIAK:   No report.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    PCRF maintenance will be performed on 7/29-30.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    “Tracy, thanks for the excellent work that you have done for the experiment so far. All of your barcodes and logging information have been received on the ground. You're almost finished with only one Pro K session remaining!  This session is currently being timelined for weeks 26/27 (begin around 9/11 and conclude with blood ops around 9/15. Have a great week!”  “Wheels, now that you have completed your third Pro K session there are only two sessions remaining. Thanks for the hard work in completing your Pro K diet log, pH log and submitting barcodes from your FD60 session.  All have been received on the ground. Your next Pro K session will be scheduled on or near FD120.”  “Shannon, thanks for completing your third Pro K session. Your attention to detail as well as the science constraints is greatly appreciated. Your Pro K diet log and pH log have been received on the ground as well as your barcodes. You're over the hump with only two sessions remaining. The next Pro K session will be scheduled on or near FD120.”   RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   " Tracy, Wheels and Shannon, thank you for your continued participation in Reaction Self Test!  We also downlinked Reaction Self Test data on 8/30. We look forward to reviewing your data!”  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    PCRF checkout was performed on 7/29-30 (see PCRF).   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    CBEF Rotor replacement was performed on 7/27-28.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    The experiment (observation) has been resumed from 8/23 (GMT235).  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Tracy, Shannon, and Wheels:  We are targeting next week to begin your next session of Sleep logging.  The entries from your last week of logging were downlinked this past Monday and sent to the PI for review.  Tracy: Thank you for completing the monthly Actiwatch download on Tuesday.  The files were successfully downlinked on 9/1 and have been sent to the Sleep PI for analysis.”  SMILES (JAXA):    (1) Submillimeter Local Oscillator Control Electronics (SLOC) had failed.  Currently SLOC is deactivated.  We are waiting for a repair plan.  (2) Helium Cooler does not reach 4 deg K.  Impure substance gas (maybe CO2) contaminated in the He cooler.  Heat-recooling cycle was performed/tested to remove the "occlusion" by the frozen substance gas.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   SOLAR was activated on 9/2 (GMT245) The Sun visibility window is predicted to start on 9/3 (GMT246).  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    “Thank you, Wheels, for all your work for the SOLO experiment.  Thank you, Shannon, for all your work for the SOLO experiment and all your effort trying to get the PCBA to work.”   Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    “Everything went fantastic Friday, and we are ready for science.  Thank you Tracy!  Good show all around!”   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Thank you, Wheels, for your THERMOLAB/EKE session.  Ground teams have confirmed that good complete data was received.”  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   “Thank you Tracy for the successful blood draw.”  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring data.  Command list file uplink performed on 8/25 (GMT237).  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    Acquiring data. Command list file uplink performed on 9/1 (GMT244).  VO2max (NASA):    “Tracy, we look forward to supporting your 6th and final VO2max session next week!  We appreciate all of the feedback you have provided the team during your time on ISS and look forward to seeing you on the ground!  Wheels, the VO2max team and surgeon were very impressed with your strength during your session on Tuesday!  You are also becoming very proficient with the hardware. Thank you for remembering to leave the Thermolab sensors on after the protocol as well.  Initial analysis of the data has begun.”  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   "Through 8/30, the ground has received a total of 3,310 frames of Exp-24 CEO imagery for review and cataloging.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following targets with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists:  Maseru, Lesotho - careful technique landed several excellent views of this challenging target - requirements are now complete for this target; and Lake Poopo area, Bolivia - good coverage of the lake and nearby salars - seasonal requirements complete for this target.  Your excellent, detailed view of Mataiva Atoll, Tuamotu Archipelago, South Pacific Ocean was published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  Your image details the notable structural details of eroded coral reef in the central lagoon of the atoll as well as the "nine eyes" (narrow channels) for which the island was named.  Nice job!  Thanks also for your recent views of Hurricane Earl which have been used by PAO and the national media.”   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Unzen Volcanic Complex, Japan (weather was predicted to be mostly clear over the Unzen volcanic complex.  Eruptive activity during 1990-1995 resulted in damaging pyroclastic flows and the formation of a summit lava dome.  Overlapping mapping frames of the volcanic complex [summits and slopes] were requested), Amman, Jordan (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over this Middle East capital.  It is one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in the world.  Overlapping frames of the urban area were requested), Asuncion, Paraguay (weather was predicted to be mostly clear over the capital city of Paraguay.  Looking to the left of track for the city.  Asuncion is one of the oldest cities in South America, and is the largest city of Paraguay.  Overlapping frames of the urban area were requested), and Paramaribo, Suriname (looking to the right of track for the city of Suriname, located on the northern coastline of South America.  Overlapping frames of the metropolitan area were requested).  