
EXpedite PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 7 (ER7) and ER8 Locker Relocations:   Following the recovery of ER7 capability yesterday, the crew relocated the two Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratories (SABLs) currently in ER8 to ER7 to make room for the SpaceX-9 delivered Phase Change Heat Exchanger (PCHx) which will be installed next week.  The primary objective of the PCHx Project is to create a unique test platform utilizing the EXPRESS Rack on the ISS to advance the technology readiness level of phase change heat exchangers for infusion into future exploration vehicles. Phase change material heat exchangers are a useful technology that helps certain space missions in regulating the thermal conditions on their particular spacecraft. They serve as a supplemental heat rejection device during time-varying heat loads and/or transient environments. It does so by storing waste energy by melting a phase change material during peak loads. It can then reject this energy through a radiator when conditions allow, causing the phase change material to freeze.
Manufacturing Device: FE-6 removed, photographed, and stowed the printed object and from the Manufacturing Device volume.  The crew then removed and cleaned the extruder print nozzle, installed a new feedstock canister, extruder head, and print tray in preparation for the next ground controlled printing session.  Manufacturing Device consists of the Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF), a permanent manufacturing facility on the ISS, providing hardware manufacturing services. The ability to manufacture on the ISS enables on-demand repair and production capability, as well as essential research for manufacturing on long-term missions. AMF allows for immediate repair of essential components, upgrades of existing hardware, installation of new hardware that is manufactured, and the manufacturing capability to support commercial interests on the ISS. 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Quarterly Inspection:  The crew inspected the T2 isolators, bottom corner hardware witness marks and a Snubber Arm inspection. This is nominal preventive maintenance that is performed on a quarterly basis. 
On Board Training (OBT) 45 Soyuz (45S) Emergency Drill:  All 3 crew members participated in this OBT to practice emergency departure of the ISS. This drill is scheduled when a crew has been on onboard the Station for 12-14 weeks and once every 2.5 months thereafter.
Hatch Seal Inspection: The crew performed this scheduled maintenance to clean the USOS hatch seals in Node1, lab, Node2 and Node3. They will also inspect the sealing surface and hatch handle mechanism for Foreign Object Debris (FOD) or damage.
ISS Reboost on 64 Progress (63P) Thrusters:  Tonight, ground controllers will perform a reboost of ISS using thrusters on 63P currently docked to the Service Module (SM) Aft.  This will set up phasing for 65P launch/dock, and 47S landing. 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Troubleshooting:  After the crew replaced both ARED cable arm ropes, they were unable to engage detents while the ARED Main Arm is on the Upper Stops. Today the crew performed a troubleshooting procedure that had the crew add a Vectran rope to the cable arm ropes to extend the ropes and allow detent engagement. After the troubleshooting, the crew was still unable to engage the detent on the left side of ARED. Currently the crew is no go for ARED bar exercises, but they can perform rope exercises. Ground teams are looking at additional troubleshooting options.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Environmental Control & Life Support System (ECLSS), Tank Drain
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Hardware Checkout
Fine Motor Skills (FINEMOTR) Experiment Ops
ISS Emergency descent drill (ТК 731)
In Flight Maintenance (IFM), Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
ER7 SSPCM Configuration
Food Frequency Questionnaire
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter initialization and deployment
SABL Locker prep for equipment installation
WRS Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL) Hardware Replacement
Hatch Seal Inspection
СОЖ Maintenance
ISS-HAM Radio Session
IMS Delta File Prep
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
T2 Monthly Inspection
SHD Weekly Questionnaire
LDST Status Check
ER8 Express Rack 8 Locker Installation
USOS Window Shutter Close
Closing Window Shutters 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14
WRS Recycle Tank Fill from EDV 

Completed Task List Items

EVA Tool Stow Part 2
AHIS Vulture Photo
MD Anderson Flight Suit Fitcheck
Veggie Plaque Hanging
EPO Biorock Diffusion Demo

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) Shunt Test
Solar Array Voltage Maximum Power Test

