
42 Soyuz (42S) Undock and Landing:  Today, 42S and its Crew (Padalka, Mogensen, and Aimbetov) undocked from the Service Module Aft docking port at 4:29pm CDT. The Soyuz deorbit burn was subsequently performed at 6:59pm CDT which set the stage for a nominal landing in the Kazakhstan southern zone at 7:51pm CDT.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations:  The USOS crewmembers collected blood samples for an ambient return on 42Soyuz.  Kelly collected for his Flight Day 180 (FD180) Microbiome, Yui collected for FD90 Salivary Markers and Telomeres, and Lindgren collected for Telomeres.  The samples were packed and handed to Padalka for stowage in the 42S descent module. Kelly also collected cheek swab (buccal) samples for his participation in the Twins Study.  Kelly and Yui collected saliva samples that were inserted into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for Microbiome and Salivary Markers, respectively, and Yui will finish his urine collections for Salivary Markers.

Twins Study: Twins Study is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple PI’s at multiple centers.  The studies take advantage of a very unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, one of whom experiences space travel for one year; the other mains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
Microbiome: The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
Telomeres: Telomeres are “caps” on the ends of chromosomes that protect them from fraying, much like the end of a shoelace, and an enzyme, called telomerase, maintains their length. Telomeres shorten over time, and the rate at which this occurs can be increased by stress, leading to accelerated aging, cardiovascular disease, cancer, and an impaired immune system. The Telomeres investigation collects crew member blood samples to determine how telomeres and telomerase are affected by space travel.
Salivary Markers: Salivary Markers samples will be used to measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays. This research study will help identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system. Maintaining a robust immune system during prolonged spaceflight missions (i.e., to other planets or asteroids) will be important to ensure mission success. If any impairment in immunity is found due to spaceflight, this will allow the development of appropriate countermeasures to help mitigate the risks.

 
JAXA Protein Crystal Growth (PCG):  Yui removed the PCG canister from the Protein Crystallization Research Facility (PCRF), installed temperature loggers, and handed the sample to Padalka for packing and return on 42S.  JAXA PCG aims at the growth of crystals of biological macromolecules by the counter-diffusion technique. The main scientific objective of the JAXA PCG experiment is to make high quality protein crystals under microgravity environment. Under microgravity conditions, convection and sedimentation are suppressed. Therefore, diffusion areas are maintained, the density around the crystals decreases, the crystals grow slowly, the capture of impurities and microcrystal decreases, and a crystal will grow well.
 
Capillary Beverage: Yui performed a session of Capillary Beverage using the Tropical Punch drink to observe fluid interface and critical wetting behavior during drinking and draining activities. Microgravity affects the way fluids behave, and as such, crew members must drink from special sealed bags instead of using straws or normal cups. Capillary Effects of Drinking in the Microgravity Environment (Capillary Beverage) studies the process of drinking from specially designed Space Cups that use fluid dynamics to mimic the effect of gravity.
 
HTV Cargo Transfer Status:  Lindgren and Kelly completed about 3 hours of HTV-5 Cargo transfer operations today. Cargo specialist estimate the crew will need approximately 12 hours to complete the HTV-5 cargo operations.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

TWIN – Saliva Collection
HRF – Sample Collection and Prep for Stowage
TWIN – Buccal Saliva Collecting
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Urine Sample Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
ECLSS Recycle Tank Remove and Replace
ТК 716 Stowage Ops
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
NAPOR-miniRSA. Cleaning БЗУ-М vents
Mating CO2 Supply umbilical cable to JPM1F2 Z-Panel
Soyuz 718 Samsung tablet charging – start
BLR48 – Data Saving
RELAKSATSIYA. Initiate v/camera battery charge
HRF1 – Hardware Setup and Activation
Verification of settings for mobiPV alternate configuration
Removing Canister and handing it over to Russian crew
CASKAD. Removal of Bioreactor from ТБУ-В No. 04 and Installation in Ababioz incubator.
HABIT – Conference Ops
RSS1 Status Monitoring
HRF1 – Hardware Setup and Run
KRISTALLIZATOR. Photography of PCG Kit Handover
PRODUTSENT. Retrieval of Bioecologia case from thermostat and Transfer to ТК 716
KRISTALLIZATOR. Reception of stacking PCG, Inspection, and Transfer to TK 716 for return
SLAMMD Temp Stow
BIOPLENKA. Transfer to Soyuz 716
ISS HAM RADIO Power Down
CASKAD. Deactivation of Anabioz Thermostat.
Removal of Recomb-K from Thermostat and Transfer to ТК 716
ТК 716 Stowage Ops
Setup GoPro HERO3 cameras in [СА]
HRF Blood Draw
CASKAD. ТК 716 Transfers. Tagup with specialists
BIOEMULSIYA. Retrieval from incubator (+4 deg C) and transfer to ТК 716
TWIN – Stow Saliva Sample Collection Equipment
HRF – Blood collection pack and handover to RS
ENDO – Container Deinstallation and Packing for Return
Removal of deployed Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Monitors
ENDO – Photography
Verification of settings for mobiPV basic configuration
Soyuz 718 Samsung tablet charging
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
ENDOTHELIAL – Packing for Return
ENDO – Hardware handover for return to the ground
HRF – Equipment stowage after sample collection
Photo of [СА] and returning stowage prior to ТК 716 undocking
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Photography of the external surface of ТК 716 СА hatch/manhole cover
СОЖ maintenance
ТК 716 Return Stowage Ops (USOS priority cargo).  Photography of Equipment in СА
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Soyuz 716 СА-БО hatch cover photo downlink via OCA or РСПИ after completion of cargo stowage for return
HRF – Blood collection pack and handover to RS
Space Headaches Daily Questionnaire
THOR – Camcorder stowage
LUNCH / r/g 9938 (for VC SFP, VC FE)
ТК 716 Transfers Status Report
Comm Config for ТК 716 Undocking and Descent
ТК 716 Activation. Transfer standard EMER-1 book with the attached white book Depress Supplement (Space Flight Participant) from ТК 716 to NOD1O4_G (long narrow pullout drawer SODF Keep Location at the bottom of soft Node 1 Overhead 4 ZSR, behind the foot restraint)
Comm check from Soyuz 716 via RSA2-SG2
Take to Soyuz with you r/g 9938, 9883, 9955
Closing window shutters 6,8,9,12,13,14
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
HMS – Food Frequency Questionnaire
RSS1 Status Monitoring
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
Gathering and Connecting КСПЭ Equipment for “Removal of Quick Release Screw Clamps” and “Hatch Closure from SM” coverage in mpeg2 format via Ku-band (with recording to CF card)
Removal of ССВП Screw Clamps from SM Aft and MPEG2 Video (Recording) of interface
Closing USOS Window Shutters
Closure of Soyuz/SM Aft Hatches. Hatch Closure TV Coverage
Closure of Soyuz 716
HTV Transfers Ops
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
CAPBEV – Preparation of Maintenance Work Area surface
Remove depress hose for nominal operations
On MCC GO ТК 716-SM Aft hatch leak check
On MCC GO Downlink of MPEG Video “Hatch Closure from SM” and “Removal of Quick Release Screw Clamps” via Ku-band
CAPBEV – Hardware Setup
HRF – Blood Collection Stowage
IMS Delta File Prep
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
CAPBEV – Photography
CAPBEV – Test Ops
HTV Transfers Ops
КСПЭ hardware Deactivation and Closing Applications on ЦП SSC
HMS – Food Frequency Questionnaire
ТК 716 ODF Ops; Undocking and Descent Ops
RGN – Initiate drain into EDV
CAPBEV – Stowage
RGN – Terminate water drain into EDV
HTV Transfers Ops
Emergency Ammonia Hardware Deployment for direct handover
SALMARK – Survey Completion
Monitoring ТПК 716 Undocking, ТПК 716 СтА Photos through SM Window No.26 after Separation from ISS
On MCC GO Mode ПрК-ТК PEV to CLOSED position
Crew Discretionary Conference
Monthly Inspection of T2 Treadmill System
JRNL – Journal Entry
HTV – Cargo
Journal Questionnaire
SHD – Questionnaire
ISTOCHNIK-M. Preparations for carrying out measurements.
RELAKSATSIYA. Hardware Setup.
ISTOCHNIK-M. Activation of ТК 716 TLM Recording Mode.
RELAXATSIYA Parameter Settings. Tagup with specialists
RELAKSATSIYA.  Observation of Soyuz 716 re-entry.
ISTOCHNIK-M. Closeout ops
RELAKSATSIYA Closeout Ops.
ТК 716 Comm reconfig for nominal ops after landing
Preparation of reports for Roscosmos site
Introduction to OPTIMIS Viewer

 
Completed Task List Items

FE-5 OPTIMIS and IPV Training [Completed]

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

System commanding in support of Soyuz undocking

 
