
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) #9 Install: After extending the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table into the cabin, FE-5 installed the NRCSD #9 quad-deployer onto the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Small Fine Arm Attachment Mechanism (MPEP/SAM) attachments this morning. The crew then retracted the slide table, closed the JEMAL hatch and depressurized the JEMAL in advance of the deployments tomorrow.  NRCSD #9 contains eight Planet Lab Dovesats that will be deployed in pairs of two. 
Biomolecule Sequencer (BMS): FE-6 removed and thawed samples and flow cells from the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  The crew then initiated a 48-hour sequencing run.  This sequencing session will be the fourth utilizing the Commercial-Off-the-Shelf (COTS) MinION sequencer and Surface Pro 3 tablet.  The goals of the BMS experiment are to provide a proof-of-concept for the functionality and evaluate crew operability of a DNA sequencer in a space/microgravity environment.  The capability for sequencing of DNA in space could provide for a better ability to identify microbes in real-time, instead of requiring sample return and ground based analysis. 
Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument Experiment Diffusion Coefficient Mixture-3 (SODI) DCMix-3 Installation:  FE-6 successfully installed the European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) SODI-DCMix-3 experiment into the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  Once installed, ground controllers will operate the SODI experiment for several weeks.  The main purpose of the SODI DCMix-3 investigation is the measurement of diffusion coefficients of selected ternary mixtures taking advantage of the reduced gravity environment available on board the ISS.  A combination of different and complementary techniques are used to characterize flight candidate samples among water-based and hydrocarbon mixtures. Experimental results from space experiments, performed in the Selectable Optical Diagnostic Instrument, are used to test thermodiffusion theories and develop physical and mathematical models for the estimation of thermo-diffusion coefficients. 
Manufacturing Device: FE-6 installed a new medium for the Manufacturing Device.  This print medium will be used for a calibration printing followed by a higher priority device contracted through Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS).  Manufacturing Device consists of the Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF), a permanent manufacturing facility on the ISS, providing hardware manufacturing services. The ability to manufacture on the ISS enables on-demand repair and production capability, as well as essential research for manufacturing on long-term missions. AMF allows for immediate repair of essential components, upgrades of existing hardware, installation of new hardware that is manufactured, and the manufacturing capability to support commercial interests on the ISS.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Dose Pump Remove and Replace (R&R):  The crew has reported multiple WHC Pre-Treat Bad Quality Light (PTBQL) indications over the past several days.  This is an indication that the Dose Pump is reaching the end of its nominal six month life.  Today, they changed out the Dose Pump to return to nominal WHC operations.  The pump was last replaced in March of 2016.
Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Return to Operations:  During installation of the MCA vacuum jumper in preparation for Lab MCA pumpdown, the crew was unable to mate the jumper to the Waste Gas Quick Disconnect (QD) due to access issues. Ground teams are working alternate options for connecting the MCA to vacuum.  This is required to return the Lab MCA to an operational state. 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Encoder Remove and Replace (R&R):  The JEM Encoder was misconfigured with an off-nominal IP configuration, and could not be accessed. Today, FE-5 replaced the JEM Encoder with an on orbit spare in order to regain functionality. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Changeout of 240ГК.52Ю 5100-0 Replaceable Unit Panel (ПАС) in DC1
JEMAL Experiment Ops
BMS Retrieval of samples from MELFI
CUBESAT Hardware Setup
BMS Retrieval of samples from MELFI2
SODI Experiment
BMS Experiment Ops
JEMAL Closeout Ops
JEMAL Depress and Vent
Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Dose Pump Removal and Replacement
Water Recovery System Waste Water Tank Drain
WRS Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
Test activation of Vozdukh Atmosphere Purification System Emergency Vacuum Valves
JEM Airlock Vent
СОЖ Maintenance
WRS Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
HABIT Filling Questionnaire
Selectable Optics Diagnostic Instrument (SODI) Hardware Setup
IMS Delta File

Completed Task List Items

JAXA Video Take – Part 5

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

JEM Airlock Depress
Battery 4B1 Reconditioning
Lab MCA Pumpout (Aborted)

