
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations:  Gerst removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides, isolating the rack and allowing ground teams to conduct another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. This week’s samples are 100% toluene and a bi-component fuel mixture of 50% heptane and 50% toluene. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels
Rodent Research-1 Preparation:  Wiseman configured and activated the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) in preparation for the Rodents Research-1 experiment arriving on SpaceX-4.  The Rodent Research Hardware provides a platform aboard the ISS for long-duration rodent experiments in space. Such experiments will examine how microgravity affects the animals, providing information relevant to human spaceflight, discoveries in basic biology, and knowledge that will have direct impact toward human health on Earth. Rodent Research-1 is a test of the operational capabilities of the new hardware system, including the Transporter, Rodent Habitat, and Access Unit.
Pro K:   Wiseman unstowed the Pro K diet kit in preparation for use during the 4 day diet logging session.  Pro-K investigates dietary countermeasures to lessen bone loss of astronauts. Pro K proposes that a flight diet with a decreased ratio of animal protein to potassium will lead to decreased loss of bone mineral. Pro K has impacts on the definition of nutritional requirements and development of food systems for future exploration missions, and could yield a method of counteracting bone loss that would have virtually no risk of side effects.
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Operations:  Ground teams utilized the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System(JEMRMS) to return the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) containing the Nanorack Cubesat Deployer #3 (NRCSD #3) to the JEM Airlock slide table.  The slide table was then retracted, bringing the MPEP inside the JEM Airlock. Gerst configured the JEM Airlock and monitored NRCSD’s during retrieval activity.
General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER):  Gerst performed desiccant pack swap on GLACIER #1 and #3 in preparation for SpaceX-4 cold stowage utilization.
IVA Clothing:  Suraev continued his IVA clothing study. Sufficient cotton clothes for a crew of six adds more than 900 pounds of freight to the ISS. Replacing crew uniforms with non-cotton apparel could reduce weight for cargo launches and trash removal, and provide crewmembers with more comfortable, longer-lasting clothes. The IVA Clothing investigation assessed these different types of clothing for long duration wear.
SpaceX-4 Dragon Prepack:  Gerst spent several hours gathering and prepacking items for return to earth on the Dragon Spacecraft.  SpaceX-4 Dragon is scheduled to launch on September 20th at 1:14 am CDT from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station Space Launch Complex 40.  Rendezvous and berth to ISS is set to occur on Monday September 22nd.
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout:  In preparation for the Dragon berthing, Wiseman installed the CBCS System onto the Node 2 Nadir Hatch. Following the installation Wiseman worked with ground teams in order to successfully checkout the system.  The checkout involved routing the video from the camera to the Cupola Robotics Work Station (RWS) monitors and the ground.  Video from the CBCS is used to aid the crew during Visiting Vehicle mating operations.
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tether Inspection:  Wiseman inspected all Retractable Equipment Tethers (RET) and Cam Buckles on required tools for US EVA 27 and 28.  All observations were photo documented and downlinked to the ground for analysis. The pair of US EVAs are scheduled to occur on October 7th and 15th.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Loss of Communication:  Today, during a process cycle, the UPA experienced a loss of communication with the Hub Control Zone (HCZ) multiplexer/demultiplexer (MDM) and subsequently shutdown. Flight Controllers successfully restarted UPA and commanded it to standby mode.  The Crew was given permission to use UPA as necessary overnight. The loss off communication signature has been seen in the past. Ground teams are monitoring the system and expecting to initiate a process cycle overnight.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted below.

Urine PH Test –  Subject
SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test
JEM Airlock Pressurization prior to Leak Check
JEM Airlock – Leak check
JEM – Securing Hatch Window Cover Assembly
ISS Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Computer Based Training (CBT)
OTKLIK. Hardware Check / r/g 6649
SM Ventilation System Preventive Maintenance. Group В2
CIR – Hardware Setup
JEM Airlock Depressurization
Equipment pre-pack for return on Dragon
BCAT – Transfer of images from the camera
MSG – Visual inspection and activation
Hardware Setup for Rodent Research Operations
JEM Airlock – Leak Check
Screw Clamp Tightening on MRM1 side
JEM – Airlock Vent Confirmation
MSG – Hardware Powerdown
JEM Airlock Slide Table extension to JEF side, Part 2
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
Crew prepares a diet log and then logs food and beverages consumed while on controlled diet
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout
Cleaning vent screens on FGB interior panels
US EVA Tool Preparation
Preparing for БИТС2-12 ЛКА1А Replacement (search for ЛКА1А, r/g review) r/g 6648
JEMRMS – Closing SAM Capture Mechanism to Softdock position
Equipment pre-pack for return on Dragon
JEM Airlock Retraction from JEF side and Outer Hatch Closure. Part 2
JEM – JEM Airlock Retraction and Outer Hatch Closure (Part 1)
IVA – Exercise Clothes Survey / USOS procedures
JEM Airlock Slide Table Retraction Viewing Support
IFM-OGS – ACTEX Cartridge Remove and Replace
JEM – JEM Airlock Retraction and Outer Hatch Closure (Part 1)
JEMRMS RLT Laptop Deactivation
GLACIER1 – Desiccant Replacement
GLACIER3 – Desiccant Replacement
IVA – Everyday Clothes Survey / USOS procedures
Dried Clothes Stowage / USOS procedures

Completed Task List Items

CTB 1226 unpack  [In Work]
ISS Guided Tour [In Work]
EVA Tool Gather  [Complete]
Nanoracks Plate Reader troubleshooting Pt 2 [Complete]  (Part 1 was completed last Friday)
Nanoracks Plate Reader troubleshooting Pt 3 [Complete]

Ground

Ground Controlled JEMRMS Ops for MPEP installation to JEM Airlock
CBCS Checkout

