
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)8 Status: Tuesday’s HTV8 launch attempt was scrubbed due to a fire at the launch pad. At approximately 1:05 pm (CT) a fire was observed on the Mobile Launcher (ML), just below the first stage main engines. The H-IIB Rocket carrying the HTV8 spacecraft arrived back at the Vehicle Assembly Building at ~4:15 AM CT on Wednesday. Detailed inspections are underway in order to determine the root cause and identify extent of damage to the ML and H-IIB Rocket. Teams are assessing plans until an official HTV launch date is announced. 
Microgravity Crystals (MGC): The crew set up a microscope, then took images of the solutions and any crystals in the wells of the crystal plates. As part of Session 4 operations. The Microgravity Crystals investigation crystallizes a membrane protein that is integral to tumor growth and cancer survival. Although crystallization of this protein has yielded unsatisfactory results on Earth, this investigation leverages extensive protein crystallization work on the space station, significantly increasing the likelihood of successful crystal growth. Results may support development of cancer treatments that target the protein more effectively and with fewer side effects.
Rodent Research-17 (RR-17): The crew gathered hardware and set up the Life Sciences Glovebox in preparation for upcoming Rodent operations. RR-17 uses younger and older mice as model organisms to evaluate the physiological, cellular and molecular effects of the spaceflight environment. Some responses to spaceflight in humans and model organisms such as mice resemble accelerated aging. This investigation provides a better understanding of aging-related immune, bone, and muscle disease processes, which may lead to new therapies for use in space and on Earth.
P6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation: The crew worked in the Airlock and prepared EVA tools in support of upcoming P6 Battery EVAs. The EVAs are required in order to transition the ISS energy storage systems from nickel hydrogen batteries to the newly designed lithium ion batteries.
Health Maintenance System Ocular Ultrasound: Today, the crew used the medical ultrasound device to take various measurements of the eyes and vascular system. These exams are part of the regular health and medical maintenance for the crew that examines how the microgravity related head-ward fluid shifts impacts ocular health during long-duration space flight missions.
Plasma Contactor Unit 2 (PCU-2) Health Flag:  On Thursday, telemetry indicated a health flag in the memory of PCU-2.  Ground Teams reviewed data from the device and determined the error to be correctable with a refresh. The refresh was performed successfully.
Completed Task List Activities:

SSK with VEG-PT1

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Payload Ground Support

Look Ahead:
Saturday – Sunday, 9/14-15 (GMT 257-258) Crew Off Duty
Payloads:


HRF Urine Collection (NASA) (GMT 257)

Monday, 9/16 (GMT 259)
Payloads:


RR-17 Operations
De-installation of EML Sample Chamber

Systems:

WHC Piping, UR, and IF R&R

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Crew Departure Preparations
Preparation of reports for Roscosmos website and social media
Video Recording of Greetings
Photography of removable handrails covers inside RS
SCENARIY. Observation and photography of catastrophic events and their aftermath
Photography of space behind SM panels
ECON-M. Observations and Photography
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male
SPLANKH-2. Splankhograph Setup.
SPLANKH-2. Sonomed-K Setup.
HRF Generic MELFI Sample Insertion Operations
SPLANKH-2. Ultrasound study before breakfast with the Electrogastroenterography (EGEG) running on the background.
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection 25 Minutes Subject
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Operator
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Configuration
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Spin Conclude
LSG Crew Restraint Installation Subsequent (Primary and Secondary)
Rodent Research Gather-1
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
Cryo Chiller Sample Cartridge Installation
Standard Measures Cognition Testing HRF PC 2
LSG Work Volume Deploy
Checking RSK2 laptop charge for video recording ops and recharging, if needed
Rodent Research Dissection Review
SPLANKH-2. Ultrasound study after breakfast with the Elctrogastroenterography (EGEG) running on the background.
Rodent Research 17 Dissection Conference
ISS Experience Z-Cam Setup on the MWA
Microscope Reposition Preparation
Rodent Research LSG Dissection Setup
Microgravity Crystals Microscopy Plate Set B, Session 4 (Day 13)
BFF Glacier Removal
Glacier Desiccant Swap
Alternate Glacier Desiccant Swap
SPLANKH-2. Splankhograph Closeout Ops.
SPLANKH-2. Sonomed-K Closeout Ops.
Magnetic 3D-bioprinter Video recording of the assembly of constructs in cuvettes No.1-1–No.1-6 Mfr. No.06.
Microscope Reposition Post Ops
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Polar Desiccant Swap
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male
СКПФ1, СКПФ2 Dust Filter Replacement and MRM1 Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger (ГЖТ) Cleaning
Analysis of SM Atmosphere for Freon (Background Measurement) Using Freon Leak Analyzer/Detector (ФИТ)
ISS Experience SD Card Replacement
HRF Generic MELFI Sample Retrieval And Insertion Operations
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Actiwatch Plus HRF Rack 2 Setup Evaluation
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Deltas
MRM1 fan (group B) screen cleaning, cleaning behind panels 405, 406
Monthly health check of video recording equipment in the RS
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 2 Power On
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan Prep
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan performed by a Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan performed by a Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male
HRF Generic MELFI Sample Retrieval And Insertion Operations
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan performed by a Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan
ISS Experience Hardware Stow
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male
Actiwatch Plus HRF Rack 2 Stow Evaluation
HRF Generic MELFI Sample Retrieval And Insertion Operations
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Post Exam

 