09-18-2010September 18, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 09/18/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – crew rest day.  CDR Skvortsov conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also upon wake-up, FE-6 Walker performed a new session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  The six station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays but pulled forward a day because of the pending Progress arrival, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  Alexander completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module).     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  At ~8:10am EDT, Skvortsov, Kornienko & Yurchikhin participated in a Russian PAO TV interview for a documentary about the MAI Aircraft Engine Department via Ku+S-Band.  At ~10:00am, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  At ~10:40am, Alex, Mikhail & Fyodor engaged in a PAO phone interview via S-band with Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos Magazine and an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.     [“Dear Alexander and Mikhail, few days are left till the end of your mission. On the 22nd Alexander hands over his command to Doug Wheelock.  Sasha, what are you going to tell him at this moment?  What are your thoughts while you are getting ready for descent: about finally seeing your family or the fact that your mission was too short?  Please, tell us in general about your stay on the ISS, summarize your work.  Did you manage to complete everything?  Did station become a real home where one wants to return?  Did your opinion about your colleagues change?  How did they turn out to be?  Did you discover anything new about yourself or something changed in your colleague?  What needs to be improved on the station?  You pioneered the new module.  They are saying that with its arrival science experiment capabilities will expand.  Is this true?  Is it comfortable for work?  Please name the most interesting studies from your perspective. Which ones would you like to see incorporated into your program, if it were for you to decide?  Federchka, did you discover any surprises in the recent Progress?  Did you do any observation or studies of the unique Lake Baikal?  Do you assist your mates in getting ready for descent?  What kind of advice, recommendations can you offer?  What can you say about your joint activities?  Did you observe any interesting or unusual events in the last month?”]  At ~11:30am, Caldwell-Dyson, Wheelock & Walker joined in a CCE (Crew Choice Event) downlinking a message of greetings & congratulations to the Pearland Little League Team which was at MCC-Houston to speak with the crew.    [The Pearland, TX, Little League team arrived in Houston Monday after spending the last week at the Little League World Series in Pennsylvania.  The team made runner-up (2nd) for the US teams, and 4th place over-all in the world.  The Japanese team was first place, defeating Hawaii.]  At ~1:05pm, Wheels powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 1:10pm conducted a ham radio session with attendees at the Utah National Parks Council, Sector 7, of the Boy Scouts of America in St. George, UT.  FE-2, FE-3, FE-4 & FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Tracy at ~4:25am & 3:50pm, Mikhail at ~6:45am, Shannon at ~12:40pm, Wheels at ~2:10pm EDT.  The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (CDR/2x, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after the last T2 session of the day but is now regularly being done once a week after the last T2 session.]  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Four -- Week 15).  2-D NANO Template (JAXA):     No report.  3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):   This ISS backup radiation monitoring system remains non-operational.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    “Thank you, Wheels, for completing the Microscope D&C cassette installation.  Following that, ground activities were started but an error message was received.  The procedure to recover was not successful and ground activities were aborted.  This is being investigated.  Thank you Tracy for performing the ATCS outfitting on 9/15, the run-in tests were performed.  The Thermal Control Unit (TCU) temperature test was started on 9/16, during the test, one of the Pelletier elements showed an over temperature which cause the TCU subsystem to be switched off.  This test was aborted and will be further investigated by ground teams.”   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):   No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    No report.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    On 9/13, four test points from the science matrix were successfully performed.  Test points were performed with methanol fuel at a 0.7 atm chamber environment of 17% O2, 45% CO2, and 38% N2:  •  Test #1 - Droplet diameter of 3.5 mm, with no support fiber. Successful deployment and ignition followed by radiative extinction after about 6 seconds. Droplet remained in FOV for entire burn.  •  Test #2 - Droplet diameter of 2.5 mm, with no support fiber. Successful deployment and ignition followed by diffusively dominated extinction after about 11 seconds. Droplet remained in FOV for entire burn.  •  Test #3 - Droplet diameter of 3 mm, with support fiber and no translation. Diffusively dominated extinction after about 10 seconds. Flame oscillations observed immediately before extinction. Droplet moved rapidly along fiber when it came into contact with contamination on the fiber.  •  Test #4 - Droplet diameter of 2.5 mm, with support fiber and no translation.  Similar behavior to Test #3. Additionally, the team has observed unexpected contamination of the fuels, fiber and needle tips. This presents operational impacts as well as introducing uncertainty to the science observations for the experiments. Ground investigations have been initiated to understand the source of the contamination. Change out of the needle assemblies, fiber arm and fuel reservoirs is required, however powered operations will not resume until a better understanding of the contamination source is achieved.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    Final data collection completed on Friday, 9/3, followed by power down; last operations before HTV2 stage  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.  DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    The last run of DECLIC for INC 23/24 ended on Friday afternoon, 9/10.  No anomaly can be reported and the sequence was successful.  DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Active Measure, ESA):    No report.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA): (Kids in Space):   No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    Photo session was performed on 7/22. . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.  EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.  EPO SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    Prep activities (crew video taking) were performed on 9/14.  Video downlink was on 9/17 and main session (EVA) will be performed during ULF5 dock.  PI team appreciates all the work that was completed by the crew to record the best video products.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.  EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]     “Thank you, Tracy, for completing all the commissioning activities for ERB-2.  ERB-2 is now ready for filming sessions.”  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   “We have successfully finished all of the scheduled runs in this increment.  There are 10 more scheduled in the next increment.”  Ferulate:    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):   No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):   No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 1666 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     No report.  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     Successful contact with University of Western Australia performed by Shannon Walker.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:     All runs are completed and videos look great!  Thanks to everyone for doing a great job on these student-designed experiments!!   KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Acquiring science data in JAXA’s Kibo.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    No report.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    No report.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally and all Science data continues to be downlinked.   The Payload MDM PEP R9 software patch has fixed the Ada Exception problem.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.  MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   Caldwell, Wheelock, and Walker performed on 8/30.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.  PADIAK:   No report.  PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    PCG had arrived with 39P, has been installed in the PCRF and experimenting is going on nominally.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    “Congrats on completing the Nutrition and Pro K session this week, and the five for the mission!  We appreciate all of your efforts and dedication to making this happen. Happy Landings!”   RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.  RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   "Tracy, the actual number of tests you will complete is 105.  The number we have been carrying 115 (under the total runs planned), was the planning number.  Thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test throughout your mission!  Wheels and Shannon, thank you for your continued participation in Reaction Self Test.”  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    “Marangoni cassette exchange completed.  Thank you for your effort on the weekend.  We can start next series of experiments on schedule in the next increment. Functional check will be performed by ground commanding on 9/20.  SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     CB function C/O(CB-MICROSCOPE-C/O、CB-VENTILATION) was completed on 9/15.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    The experiment (observation) has been resumed from 8/23.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Tracy: Now that you have completed your last sleep log, your final on-orbit activity for Sleep will be the Actiwatch Doff next week.  You'll get to enjoy a brief respite from wearing the Actiwatch until your postflight BDC begins.  Thank you for your participation.  We look forward to seeing you on the ground at your debrief!”  SMILES (JAXA):    8th re-cooling attempt is underway.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     “Thank you, Tracy and Shannon, for all your hard work to get SODI-COLLOID installed.  The stirrer characterization has been completed and the aggregation detection runs were completed.  The science team has confirmed that all images look good and they are looking forward to starting the actual science runs next week based on the parameters gained from the aggregation detection runs.  Reference runs were interrupted due to an anomaly, and it is currently being investigated on the ground.”  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   Sun visibility window ended on 9/14.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    “Congratulations Wheels for completing the SOLO experiment.  Your participation in this experiment is appreciated.  Teams are checking the environmental conditions of the modules during session 1 and session 2 to see if SLAMMD measurements from the first session can be used to compensate for the aborted SLAMMD measurement in the second session.”  Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    “Everything went fantastic Friday, and we are ready for science.  Thank you Tracy!  Good show all around!”  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Congratulations Tracy !  The data collection for VO2max and THERMOLAB is completed.  We really appreciate your participation to this experiment!”  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   “Tracy, thanks for completing the on-orbit blood draws for Vascular.  The PI team is looking forward to welcoming you back in Houston and perform post-flight BDC on R+1.”  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring data.  Command list file uplink performed on 9/8.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    Acquiring data. Command list file uplink performed on 9/1.  VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    Through 9/14, the ground has received a total of 4,540 frames of Exp-24 CEO imagery for review and cataloging  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following targets with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists:  Algiers, Algeria – a number of excellent context views in one session – requirements for this target are now complete; Hurricane Igor, North Atlantic Ocean – numerous, timely, multi-camera sessions of this monster storm system are being used by PAO and the public media – one session includes some of the best “down the eye” views we’ve seen in recent years;  Tunis, Tunisia – more clouds were present than we anticipated – we will keep trying for this one;  and Lisbon, Portugal – a single long-lens session acquired this target in detail, but context views are still required.  One of your excellent views of the CEO Target:  Maseru, Lesotho was published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  This low-contrast target was a challenging one but documents the extent of the urban area of this capital city and illustrates the land use contrast between Lesotho and the neighboring Republic of South Africa.  Nice shot!”  CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Tehran, Iran (looking to the left of track for the city of Tehran.  The city is located between the Alborz Mountains to the north and the desert to the south.  Overlapping frames of the urban and surrounding rural area were requested), Roseau, Dominica (Roseau is the capital city of the island nation of Dominica.  The city is located on the southwestern coastline of the island.  Overlapping frames of the city and island were requested), Hurricane Igor, Atlantic Ocean (Dynamic event.  Hurricane Igor is weakening, but was still predicted to be a major storm at the time of ISS approach.  Looking to the right of track for the storm; short lens views were suggested to capture the extent of the storm), and Tarawa Atoll, Kiribati (ISS had a nadir-viewing pass over this central Pacific atoll.  The capital city of the Republic of Kiribati, Bairiki, is also located on the atoll.  Overlapping mapping frames of the atoll were requested).  