
Payloads:
Foams and Emulsions: The Foams and Emulsions hardware was setup, and the crew prepared a sample for insertion into the KERMIT microscope. Samples were swapped out per the Experiment 3 protocol to observe emulsions formed with various solutions. Foams (dispersions of bubbles in a liquid) and emulsions (dispersions of droplets in a liquid) appear in many food, consumer, and personal care products and are used in a variety of industries. Structure and Stability of Foams and Emulsions examines the properties and performance of foams and emulsions, including using particles of various shapes and surface roughness to stabilize these materials. Microgravity enables examination of the microstructures of foams and emulsions due to the elimination of the influence of gravity-related factors such as buoyancy of particles.
GRASP: Crewmembers performed the GRASP protocol sessions in the seated configuration. The purpose of the GRASP investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g., sight or hearing) in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment.  More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
Interfacial Bioprocessing of Pharmaceuticals (IBP) via the Ring-Sheared Drop (RSD) Module (RSD-IBP): A new sample and new test cell was installed into the Ring Sheared Drop hardware in the MSG Work Volume. The ISS Ring Sheared Drop module is a containerless liquid system that makes it possible to study protein solutions without the effects of interactions with solid walls. Ring Sheared Drop-IBP studies the behavior of high-concentration protein fluids and tests computer models for predicting that behavior. More accurate models could enable production of next-generation medicines for treating cancers and other diseases.
Veggie Monitoring: Photographs of a crewmember performing Veggie Monitoring Surface Sample Analysis operations were taken. Culture-based Environmental Monitoring of Crop-based Space Food Systems (Veggie Monitoring) collects microbial samples from the surface of the station’s Veggie plant production system in conjunction with quarterly Environmental Health System (EHS) sample collection. Longer exploration missions require space-based systems for growth of plants, and this investigation is expected to help establish requirements to protect these systems, plants, and crew from contamination.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): The XROOT plants were checked for health and evaluation. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
European Robotic Arm (ERA) Performance Test Mission: The main priority of the ERA Performance Test Mission is to check characteristics of ERA motion and to prepare for transfer of the heat exchanger. The mission includes ERA moving to the radiator grapple fixture, determining the automatic stop distance for each joint, and to return from the grapple to storage position, base point 2.
Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Endcone Cleanup: The crew removed items for the PMM Endcone needed for upcoming operations and items need for return. By cleaning out the endcone, more space has been made available for trash. The PMM is primarily used to increase the stowage volume for spares, supplies, and waste on the ISS.
Water Recovery Management (WRM) Purge Hose Flush: Today, the crew completed the WRM purge hose flush. The hose flush removed any possible contaminates from WRM hardware that is used in Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA). The OGA rack has been operating nominally since the crew transferred it to the US Lab1P1.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Video Distribution Subsystem (VDS) Survey
ERA Performance Testing Day 1
Fluids Integrated Rack Activation Commanding
RPCM P34B-E RPC 2 Reclosure (Success)

