
52 Soyuz (52S) Dock: 52S launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome this evening, and docked to the ISS bringing Misurkin, Acaba, and Vande Hei to the ISS. Docking to the Mini Research Module-2 (MRM-2) module was completed at 09:55 PM CDT with hatch opening at 12:08 AM CDT. The arrival of 52S increased the ISS crew complement from 3 to 6 crewmembers.
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): The crew performed a FMS session this morning. The FMS experiment is executed on a touchscreen tablet, where the crew performs a series of interactive tasks. The investigation studies how fine motor skills are affected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of FMS is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
Multi-Omics Mouse:  Today the crew collected samples for later analysis in support of the Multi-Omics Mouse investigation.  Several studies have reported space flight effects on the human immune system, but the relationship between microbiota and immune dysfunction during flight remains unclear. In the Multi-Omics-Mouse investigation, food with and without fructooligosaccharides (FOS) will be used as prebiotics, to determine if they improve the gut environment and immune function.  After the flight, researchers will analyze the gut environment (microbiota and metabolites) and immune system of the mice by multi-omics analysis.
NanoRacks Module 9: The crew conducted the fourth operations session of NanoRacks Module 9 by activating mixture tubes in support of the NanoRacks-National Center for Earth and Space Science-Casper (NanoRacks-NCESSE-Casper) investigation.  NCESSE supports various schools and student-designed experiments that address challenges of living and working in space. The program is also a key initiative for U.S. science, technology, engineering and math (STEM), which strives to educate and inspire the next generation of scientists and engineers to work on the space program.  
Rodent Research 9 (RR-9):  The crew configured single stowage lockers to accommodate rodent habitats returning on SpX-12. The RR-9 experiment studies how microgravity affects the immune systems, muscles and bones of rodents during extended stays aboard the ISS.  After approximately 30 days aboard the ISS, the mice will be returned to Earth where scientists on the ground will study how their time in space has affected various tissues, including brain, muscle, heart, joint, the eyes and the immune system.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector A (LEE A) Survey: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the SSRMS to perform a survey of the LEE A latches using the P1 Lower Outboard (LOOB) External High Definition Camera (EHDC). No signs of damage was seen during the survey. The Robotics Ground Controllers also performed checkouts of LEE A in preparation for re-grappling SpaceX Dragon 12 on GMT Day 257 and of the Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload/Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA) in preparation for the LEE-A/POA swap during the Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) on GMT 278.  Both the LEE A and the POA checkouts were nominal.  MSS performance today was also nominal. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

 Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry – Subject
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
Multi-Omics-Mouse Item Gathering
Fine Motor Skills Experiment Test – Subject
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Multi-Omics-Mouse Fecal Collection Micro-G second part 1
TangoLab-2 Card Cube Remove
Moding and Activation of Membrane Filter-Separator (МФР) СРВ-К2М vlv 3 line. 
NanoRacks Module-9 OBT
NanoRacks Module 9 Ops Session 4
СОЖ Maintenance
Multi-Omics-Mouse Fecal Collection Micro-G second part 2
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Install
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Multi-Omics-Mouse MELFI Insertion
Multi-Omics-Mouse Fecal Collection 1G second part 1
Multi-Omics-Mouse Fecal Collection 1G second part 2
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Multi-Omics-Mouse MELFI Insertion
CQ outfitting for the arriving crew
IMS Update
ISS HAM Radio Power Down
USOS Window Shutter Close
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Dragon Lithium Hydroxide Filter Bag Remove and Replace
Review Hatch Opening from MRM2 and Arrival of Expedition 53” TV Coverage procedure.
Soyuz 734 ODF Ops
Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry – Subject
Multi-Omics-Mouse Item Gathering
Monitoring shutter closure on windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14.
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Extended Maintenance
Gas Analyzer Activation in Soyuz 736
HRF Generic Urine Collection Setup
MPEG-2 Downlink Test via Ku-band (Activation/Deactivation of TV Data Monitoring and MPEG2 Multicast hardware)
Rodent Research Locker Prep
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Multi-Omics-Mouse Cage Maintenance for Water 6
Comm config for Soyuz docking to MRM2. Comm check with Soyuz 734 in RSA2-S/G2
Rodent Research Locker Prep
Preparation for Soyuz 734 Docking
Intravehicular Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter (IV-TEPC) Relocate [Deferred]
Activation of TV Data and MPEG2 Multicast Monitoring Equipment
Activation of mpeg2 multicast video recording mode
Monitoring Soyuz 734 Rendezvous with ISS (MRM2)
Moding DC-Soyuz PEV (MRM2) to ELECTR CONTROL
Soyuz 734 – MRM2 Interface Leak Check. Start drying two space suits
Closing Applications and Downlink of MPEG2 Multicast Video via OCA
Comm reconfig after Soyuz 734 docking
Hardware Setup in SM for Expedition 53 Arrival TV PAO Coverage from SM
Equipment Setup in MRM2 for Hatch Opening TV Coverage from MRM2
Soyuz -MRM2 Hatch Opening, TV Coverage of “Expedition 53 Arrival”
Handover of the 3rd space suit for drying in Soyuz 736
Drying of the 3rd spacesuit in Soyuz 736, start
ISS Safety Briefing
RED 960GB SSD Troubleshooting
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
URAGAN. Observation and photography
ECON-M. Observation and photography
End of space suits 1, 2 drying (Soyuz 734)
Setup of 1st pair of gloves for drying
Finish drying the 1st pair of gloves and start drying the 2nd pair
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
Space Headaches – Daily Questionnaire
Comm reconfig for nominal ops
ТПК 52S Deactivation
Exiting Applications, Deactivation of camcorders and TV monitors
USOS Window Shutter Close
Terminate drying the second pair of gloves
Soyuz 734 Deactivation (without ГА deactivation)
Terminate drying the 3rd suit, start drying the 3rd pair of gloves in Soyuz 736
Stowage of the 1st and 2nd space suits and gloves after drying
Drying the 3rd pair of gloves
Handover of the 3rd space suit and gloves after drying in Soyuz 736
Stowage of the 3rd suit and gloves in Soyuz 734 after drying
Soyuz 734 Transfers and IMS Ops

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

LEE A latch inspection 

