
Node 1 Communication:  Ground teams utilized the video conferencing system to patch Space to Ground channel 2 (S/G2) to an SSC in Node 1, and asked the crew to confirm that S/G2 voice was audible in Node 1.  Two separate configurations were tested, and both were confirmed to be audible.  Neither video nor return (ISS calling the ground) audio was enabled.  The ability to hear S/G2 calls in Node 1 has been a highly desired function.
Lighting Effects: Upon wakeup, the 51S subject provided a sleep log entry, and conducted the last of four urine collections, that were divided within a 24-hour period.  The sample was stowed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for freezing until their return and analysis. The Lighting Effects experiment hopes to better quantify and qualify how lighting can effect habitability of spacecraft. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights. 
Space Headaches: The crew completed questionnaires for the ESA Space Headaches investigation.  The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Sarcolab-3:  Today the crew set up and configured the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) facility in the Columbus module for Sarcolab-3 operations next week.  They installed the Ankle configuration and Electromyograph and Percutaneous Electrical Stimulation (PEMS) devices on MARES.  The data collected for Sarcolab-3 will be compared to pre and post-flight measurements to assess the impact of hypothesized microgravity induced muscle loss.  Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus, or calf muscle, where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
NanoRacks Module 9: The crew activated mixture tubes for the fifth NanoRacks Module 9 operations session in support of the NanoRacks-National Center for Earth and Space Science-Casper (NanoRacks-NCESSE-Casper) investigation.  NCESSE supports various schools and student-designed experiments that address challenges of living and working in space. The program is also a key initiative for U.S. science, technology, engineering and math (STEM), hat strives to educate and inspire the next generation of scientists and engineers to work on the space program.
ADvanced Space Experiment Processor (ADSEP):  The crew removed a Tissue cassette and two Cell Culturing (CellCult) cassettes from ADSEP. The Tissue cassette will be inserted in the Space Automated Bio-product Lab (SABL) and the CellCult cassettes will be inserted into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  ADSEP is a thermally controlled facility that accommodates up to three cassette-based experiments that can be independently operated.  A collection of experiment cassettes is used to accommodate experiments in cell technology, multiphase fluids, solution chemistry, separation science, microencapsulation, and crystal growth.  For CellCult investigations, each cassette contains a rotating filtered bioreactor, a reservoir for fresh media, two peristaltic pumps, a waste reservoir, and up to 6 sample-collection or reagent containers connected by a manifold to the reactor. Cultures can be operated in continuous perfusion, batch fed, static, or sampling modes.  The removal of samples and the addition of additives to the reactor volume can be programmed or tele-operated. 
Rodent Research 9 (RR-9):  The crew completed the RR-9 Live Animal Return (LAR) activities, by activating the lixits, installing food bars, and transferring the animals into the LAR transporters returning on SpX-12. The animals are safely stowed on SpX-12 and are ready for their return to Earth.  The RR-9 experiment studies how microgravity affects the immune systems, muscles and bones of rodents during extended stays aboard the ISS.  After approximately 30 days aboard the ISS, the mice will be returned to Earth where scientists on the ground will study how their time in space has affected various tissues, including brain, muscle, heart, joint, the eyes and the immune system. 
CASIS Protein Crystal Growth PCG-6: The crew deactivated and inserted three PCG samples into the Minus Eight-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI-2). Neutron Crystallographic Studies of Human Acetylcholinesterase for the Design of Accelerated Reactivators (CASIS PCG 6) produces crystals of acetylcholinesterase, a medically important neurotransmitter enzyme. Crystals grown in microgravity are larger and higher-quality and can be used for the technique called macromolecular neutron crystallography (MNC) to locate hydrogen atoms in the crystal structure. These hydrogen atoms play critical roles in the enzyme function and knowing their location clarifies that function. This advances development of better antidotes to fatal Organophosphate nerve agents, which act by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase in the nervous system.
CASIS Protein Crystal Growth (PCG-7): The crew inserted 10 PCG samples into to the Minus Eight-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI-2). Crystallization of LRRK2 Under Microgravity Conditions (CASIS PCG 7) uses the microgravity environment aboard the ISS to grow larger versions of an important protein, LRRK2, implicated in Parkinson’s disease. Defining the exact shape and morphology of LRRK2 would help scientists better understand the pathology of Parkinson’s and aid in the development of therapies against this target, but gravity keeps Earth-grown versions of this protein too small and too compact to study. CASIS PCG 7 uses automated biotechnology devices to grow larger versions of this protein in space, which are then returned to Earth for detailed laboratory analysis. 
Dragon Packing:  Today the crew packed and loaded items into the SpaceX-12 Dragon capsule for return to Earth.
Dragon Grapple:  Overnight, the Station Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) was maneuvered from the post-Latching End Effector (LEE) A survey park position to the SpX-12 Dragon capture position. SSRMS then grappled Dragon nominally. The SSRMS was powered down to Dual String Keep Alive (DSKA). Dragon release is scheduled for this Sunday.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Advanced Space Experiment Processor Cassette Remove
ADSEP Glacier Sample Insertion
Advanced Space Experiment Processor Locker Remove
At Home In Space Culture Photo
CEVIS Crew Handover
Stowage gather and COL cabin cleanup before MARES deployment.
Columbus Video Camera Assembly 2 Adjustment
Cold Stowage Double Coldbag Pack Review
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review
ASI Biomission script recording
In Situ message recording
PERSEO message recording
ESA-PAO-CORRIERE
ESA-PAO-GUGGENHEIM
ESA-PAO-RAI PRIX
Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-Board Training
Virtual Reality Training (VRT) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) or ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
HRF Continuous Blood Pressure Device Hardware Consolidate and Transfer
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval Insertion Operations
HRF Generic Urine Collection
IMS Update
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
ISS Crew Adaptation
ISS Crew Orientation
Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry – Subject
MARES Ankle configuration fit check
MARES (SARCOLAB). Ankle configuration setup
MARES (SARCOLAB). Power On and Battery Charge
MARES Battery Charge
Assistance for MARES deployment
EMG and PEMS installation with PEMS Self test
MARES (SARCOLAB). EPM Laptop Activation
Multi-Omics-Mouse Post-experiment Transfer Familiarization 2
Node 2 Nadir Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK) Gather
NanoRacks Module 9 Ops Session 5
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
PCG6 Deactivation and Stow
PCG6 MELFI Insertion
Insertion of PCG-7 Hardware into MELFI
Polar and TCU Transfer to Dragon Overview
RED 960GB SSD Troubleshooting
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Rodent Research 9 Access Unit Clean
Rodent Research 9 Habitat Stow
Rodent Research 9 Live Animal Return
Space Headaches – Daily Questionnaire
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Tropical Cyclone Untended Operations
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
Cargo Transfer to Dragon
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) Weekly Conference
MATRYOSHKA-R. Installation ИД-3МКС in Protective Curtain. Tagup with specialists
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
СОЖ maintenance
Removal of GoPro cameras in Soyuz 734. Transfer of Video to Hard Drive. Flash card closeout ops. Battery Charge (6), initiate. Tagup with specialists as necessary
End GoPro HERO3 battery (6) charge from Soyuz 734. Stowage. Tagup with specialists as necessary
IDENTIFICATION. Copy ИМУ-Ц micro-accelerometer data to laptop
RS Videoscope preparation for transfer to US
URAGAN. Observation and photography
ECON-M. Observation and photography

Completed Task List Activities

Dragon 12 Cargo Ops Packing (IN WORK)

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

None

