09-11-2009September 11, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 09/11/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   At wake-up, CDR Padalka terminated his tenth experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]   After FE-1 Barratt set up the video equipment to record documentary footage for ground assessment, FE-2 Stott undertook her first PFE (Periodic Fitness Evaluation) test, a monthly 1.5-hr. protocol which checks up on blood pressure and electrocardiogram (ECG) during programmed exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer in the US Lab.  Mike Barratt assisted as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Readings were taken with the BP/ECG (Blood Pressure/Electrocardiograph) and the HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) watch with its radio transmitter, and Nicole stowed the video gear afterwards.    [BP/ECG provides automated noninvasive systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements while also monitoring and displaying accurate heart rates on a continual basis at rest and during exercise.]   Dr. Barratt also set up the NUTRITION with Repository hardware for Nicole’s first session, starting tomorrow morning with her blood draw and urine collections.  Mike will assist with the phlebotomy from an arm vein.    [The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood & urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]   In the US A/L (Airlock), the FE-1 terminated METOX (Metal Oxide) CO2 adsorber canister regeneration which he initiated yesterday.   Also in the A/L, Mike Barratt later had several hours to gather & configure US EVA tools for potential HTV quick response spacewalk tasks.   In addition, the FE-1 relocated a PCS laptop from the A/L to the Lab RWS (Robotic Workstation) in order to have three3 PCS laptops in the Lab for HTV berthing.   In Node-2, Mike set up the nadir port hatch up for next week’s HTV berthing by opening the latch mechanism (2.5 turns).   Later, Barratt performed preventive toilet maintenance renewal in the Lab on the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment), removing & replacing the receptacle, all AH (air hoses) and the LI (Liquid Indicator).   FE-2 Stott started (later terminated) another 5-hr automatic sampling run (the 29th) with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-4 (Station Support Computer 4) laptop.    [The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  Today’s data will again to be compared with VOA and GSC (Grab Sample Container) measurements.  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]   Nicole also completed the monthly routine maintenance of all four CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units, replacing their batteries with a fresh spare, and performing zero-calibration on them with a calibration pump, then taking & downlinking readings before and after the zeroing.    [The CSA-CP is a passive cabin atmosphere monitor that provides quick response capability during a combustion event (fire).  Its collected data are stored on a logger.  The current prime unit, #1053, was returned to its station in the SM (Service Module), the other units, #1060, #1057, #1055, to stowage.]   At ~3:45am EDT, FE-5 De Winne began today’s mini-Sim #2 activities by powering on the JEMRMS BUC (JEM Robotic Manipulator System / Backup Controller) in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  Later, after the drill, the BUC was turned off again.   The FE-2 set up a camcorder for covering the subsequent activities, then configured the ROBoT simulator hardware and performed a 2h 40m training drill (mini-Sim #2) of HTV rendezvous activities next week, in which she was joined by FE-4 Thirsk & FE-5 De Winne.  The session was followed by a debriefing with the ground and tear-down of the onboard trainer equipment.     [This was the final HTV Rendezvous mini-Sim with primary ground specialists, and Nicole’s only OBT mini-Sim.  The focus was on the integrated objectives (proficiency training, familiarization with latest procedures, cue cards and time critical ops) and timeline from 300 m through capture with a small ground team supporting.  Both Nicole & Frank will be working with the Japanese JEMRMS during the HTV berthing, relocating the EP (External Pallet) and its two science payloads.]   Romanenko, Thirsk & De Winne joined up in the Soyuz 19S spacecraft (docked at FGB nadir) for the standard 3-hrs Soyuz emergency descent drill, regular procedure for each station crew.  The exercise, which does not involve any command activation, uses computer simulation (Trenasher Spusk) on the RSK1 laptop with a descent hand controller (RUS) in manual mode to set up reentry conditions and switch between modes.    [The onboard training (OBT) session included a review of the pertinent RODF (Russian Operations Data Files), specifically the books on Soyuz Insertion & Descent Procedures, Emergency Descents, and Off-Nominal Situation Procedures such as manual undocking.]   Later, the FE-3 and CDR Padalka had ~40 min set aside for conducting the regular intermodular tests of the main TORU (Teleoperator Control System) receiver on the mated Progress 34P, working with ground specialists via VHF on DO16/1 (VHF coverage 11:20am-12:00pm) on the standard vehicle-to-vehicle TORU checkout between the SM and the Progress cargo ship docked to the SM aft port.  Progress thrusters (DPO) were inhibited and not involved.   [Crew activities focused on TORU activation, inputting commands via the RUO Rotational Hand Controller and close-out ops.  TORU lets an SM-based crewmember perform the approach and docking of automated Progress vehicles in case of failure of the automated KURS system.  Receiving a video image of the approaching ISS, as seen from a Progress-mounted docking television camera (“Klest”), on a color monitor (“Simvol-Ts”, i.e. “symbol center”) which also displays an overlay of rendezvous data from the onboard digital computer, the crewmember steers the Progress to mechanical contact by means of two hand controllers, one for rotation (RUO), the other for translation (RUD), on adjustable armrests.  The controller-generated commands are transmitted from the SM's TORU control panel to the Progress via VHF radio.  In addition to the Simvol-Ts color monitor, range, range rate (approach velocity) and relative angular position data are displayed on the “Klest-M” video monitor (VKU) which starts picking up signals from Progress when it is still approximately 7 km away.  TORU is monitored in real time from TsUP over Russian ground sites (RGS) and via Ku-band from Houston, but its control cannot be taken over from the ground.]   Both Russian crewmembers again had several hours for transferring & stowing excessed equipment and waste for disposal in the 34P cargo ship.   Roman initiated (later terminated) another refresh of the cabin atmosphere with O2 from Progress tankage.   With the Elektron still off and the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system in the SM deactivated, Padalka installed a new ROM/read-only memory unit halfset (PZU YuA114M/PZUB-1M)) on the BITS2-12 Central Processor Subsystem (BTsB), in place of two previous YuA114M memory devices.    [Should the subsequent test fail, TsUP will develop a plan to re-install the memory devices to their original locations.]   Afterwards, the CDR worked on the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor, changing out its BKO multifiltration unit (with the SKV-1 air conditioner shut down temporarily).  New condensate hoses (A-H, A-B) were also installed.   After reactivation of BITS2-12 and checkouts by the ground, Gennady supported the ground-commanded activation of the Elektron oxygen generator at 24 amps by monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.    [The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.  Elektron had been turned off for the GIVUS R&R since the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and VD-SU control system mode were deactivated for this activity.]   In the JPM, Bob Thirsk power-cycled (rebooted) the MLT (MMA {Microgravity Measurement Apparatus} Laptop Terminal), then set its time (accurate to the second) to PCS (Portable Computer System) time.    [PCS time is correct because it is synchronized with the C&C MDM (Command & Control Multiplexer/DeMultiplexer computer.]   Later, Thirsk supported ongoing micro-G assessments by JAXA by tapping a portside seat track in the JPM several times with his fist to provide intentional excitation to the MMA.    [Three sets of data measurement are planned in the current week 23 (9/11-9/15), each lasting 24 hours. The first set of data collection is scheduled today. The second set will be scheduled on 9/13 and the third one on 9/14.  Comparing the data between the U.S. SAMS (Space Acceleration Measurement System) and MMA is important for ground analysis. Therefore, after begin of micro-G data measurement by SAMS and MMA, in order for the ground to accurately compare the data collection, Bob was to provide an intentional vibration near the JPM CQ (Crew Quarters).]    FE-3 Romanenko conducted another 30-min. session with the new Russian ocean observations program, DZZ-13 “Seiner”, to obtain data on color field patterns and current cloud cover conditions over the south-east Pacific between the geographic location east of New Zealand and the coast of Chile.    [The experiment uses visual observation, videography (HDV camcorder, PAL mode) and selective photography (NIKON D2X with AF-S Zoom-Nikkor 80-200 mm lens) of color-contrast images and large discontinuities in cloud fields along the flight path, controlled from the RSK-1 laptop.  Roman’s photography had to be accompanied by a continuous non-stop video recording of underlying terrain using the HDV camera securely fixed above SM Window #8 precisely in nadir using the LIV adapter.]   At ~5:20pm, just before sleep time, Roman will set up the Russian MBI-12 SONOKARD payload and start his seventh experiment session, using a sports shirt from the SONOKARD kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]   The crew performed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).    Afterwards, Frank transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).   At ~4:15am EDT, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.   At ~4:30am, Gennady linked up with TsUP/Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory & stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.   At ~9:00am, all crewmembers convened for their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office (Steve Lindsey), via S-band S/G-2 audio & phone patch.   At ~3:45pm, the ISS crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H via S-band/audio.    [S/G-2 (Space-to-Ground 2) phone patch via SSC (Station Support Computer).]  WRM Update:  A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked last night to the crew for their reference, updated with yesterday’s CWC (Collapsible Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (20-0055P) lists 83 CWCs (~1,960.0 L total) for the four types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (69 CWCs with 1,535.5 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 322.6 L for flushing only due to Wautersia bacteria & 176.2 L in 4 clean bags for contingency use, 2. potable water (8 CWCs with 323.1 L, of which 194.8 L (5 bags) are currently off-limit pending ground analysis results), the remainder good for contingency use, 3. condensate water (3 CWCs with 27 L), 4. waste/EMU dump and other (3 CWCs with 74.4 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]   OGA Purge Status:   Yesterday’s scheduled OGA (Oxygen Generator Assembly) purge was postponed due to the inability of the crew to locate the OGS HOPA (Hydrogen ORU Purge Adapter) evacuation tool which is one of the required tools to perform the activity.  In lieu of performing the purge, the OGA was to be activated for a short time today which will perform the required purge.  An assessment is underway to determine whether there are sufficient assets onboard to fabricate a replacement HOPA or facsimile.  Flying up a replacement unit is also under consideration.  HTV FD (Flight Day) overview:  FD1: PM1 (main engines),      M1 (RCS Thrusters), PM1’ (RCS) – all done successfully,      setting up the initial phasing for rendezvous; FD2:  Far field rendezvous FD3:  Far field      demonstrations FD4, FD5:  Far field rendezvous FD6:  IMMT review of      demonstrations FD7:  Far field rendezvous FD8:  Prox Ops, Capture      (~3:50pm if on 9/17), Installation  Capture will occur during       time without Ku-Band available.  FD9:  Crew half-duty day,      Ingress FD10:  JEMRMS checkout and      EP (two payloads) prep FD11:  EP Transfer to      JEM-EF FD12:  Payloads Transfer      from EP to EF (Exposed Facility) with Kibo RMS (Robotic Manipulator      System) FD13:  EP Transfer back to      HTV FD14-38: Cargo transfer      from HTV to ISS FD38:  Prep for release FD39:  Deactivation and      Release FD40:  Re-entry    No CEO photo targets uplinked for today.   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  