
Rodent Research-7 (RR-7): The crew completed the second of two days of rodent operations for the RR-7 investigation. Crewmembers will perform bone densitometer scans, blood draws, fecal pellet collections, and sampling operations. They also completed cleaning of the rodent habitats. The RR-7 investigation examines how the space environment affects the community of microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract of mice (also known as the microbiota). It also looks at microgravity’s effects on multiple physiological systems known to be affected by the microbiota, including the gastrointestinal, immune, metabolic, circadian, and sleep systems. These studies should help explain mechanisms underlying interactions between these systems and the role of the microbiota in these interactions.
Microbial Tracking-2: Today a crewmember collected saliva samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation and placed them inside a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1-year period.  After the samples return to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA is conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time.
Food Acceptability: Crewmember performed the questionnaire. The Food Acceptability investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results provide developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Robotics On-Board Training (OBT): Today the crew performed a self-study OBT session using the Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) in preparation for HTV-7 approach and rendezvous. They practiced HTV approach and retreat monitoring, as well as HTV capture, using a simulated Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback.
Airlock Minicam Power/Video Cable Remove and Replace (R&R): In order to restore full functionality to the Airlock Minicam, the crew R&Rd a power and data cable that ground teams suspect has failed. This cable connects the Minicam to the Advanced Video Interface Unit (AVIU) and is required to capture video inside the Airlock during ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) and Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) operations. A checkout of the Minicam will be completed in conjunction with EVA activities during the upcoming HTV-7 Battery RVAs later in this month.
Completed Task List Activities:

Rodent Habitat Cleaning
MSG Cleanup after Rodent Research Ops

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Nominal Commanding
N3 MCA Zero Calibration
Soyuz EHDC Survey

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Friday, 09/14: 
Payloads

BCAT Camera Activities
Meteor System Disk recovery
Team Task Switching Survey
CAL Fiber cable troubleshoot
Plant Habitat Science Carrier #2 install
Tropical Cyclone Hardware uninstall

Systems

HTV-7 ROBoT Session 2 

Saturday, 09/15: Housekeeping, Crew Off-Duty
Payloads

Microbial Tracking-2 Saliva Collection
Rodent Research Sample relocate 

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Rodent Research Animal Transfer
Rodent Research Operations 1A
Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
On-board Training (OBT) HTV Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session
Rodent Research Bone Densitometer Scan
COSMOCARD. Preparing for and Starting 24-hr ECG Recording
Rodent Research Operations 1B
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
SEPARATSIYA. Distillation in Auto Mode
Rodent Research MELFI Insert
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
Water transfer from Progress 439 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank 1
Repairs of SM Interior Panel by installing cover panels, Day 2
СТТС Configuration for MRM2
Installation of Network Connection Adapter (АСП), routing and connecting СУБА cables in MRM2 for future Payloads.
Rodent Research Centrifuge Setup
HRF Centrifuge Spin Conclude
Rodent Research MELFI Insert
Waste and Hygiene Compartment Filter Kit Audit
Changeout of СО2 Filter Unit in ИК 0501 Gas Analyzer.
Photo/TV Airlock Minicam Swap
Stand-alone functional test of Network Connection Adapter (АСП)-MRM2.
Recharging Soyuz 738 IRIDIUM Phone
Rodent Research MELFI Insert
Comm reconfig for nominal ops
СОЖ Maintenance
Recharging Soyuz 739 IRIDIUM phone
IMS Update
Vacuum Cleaning ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in MRM2
Rodent Research Operations 2A
Rodent Research Operations 2B
В3 Fan Screen Cleaning in MRM2
HRF Centrifuge Spin Conclude
PROBOY. Acoustic Signal Converter Unit (БПАС) Power Off.
TReK Laptop Reconnect

 