
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Operations:  With Deployers inside the JEMAL, Gerst secured doors of NRCSD Deployers 4 and 8. He then engaged the loading latches and applied tape to prevent further inadvertent deploys.
Ocular Health: Gerst conducted his Flight Day 120 Ocular Health vision test and completed a questionnaire. With Wiseman as the operator, the tonometer was used to collect eye pressure measurements and a blood pressure cuff was used to take blood pressure measurements. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus (CGBA) Unit Activation:  Wiseman activated Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus #4 and # 6 in support of the Micro-8 payload which will be delivered on SpaceX-4.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Hardware Gather:  Wiseman pre-staged tools and support items for CIR activities scheduled for tomorrow.  The Maintenance Work Area (MWA) was set up to restrain the MDCA Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) during hardware reconfiguration. This activity and fuel reservoir replacement support the next set of FLEX-2 test points.
Dragon Offset Grapple #1 On-Board Training (OBT): Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) high hover position. Gerst and Wiseman then practiced maneuvering the SSRMS into and out of the grapple envelope of the PMM’s Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture, followed by a conference with ground teams to discuss results. Dragon rendezvous and berth to ISS is scheduled for Monday, September 22nd.
Crew Handover Conference: The ISS crew participated in a conference to discuss lessons learned with crew members scheduled to arrive on 40S September 26th. This begins the handover process prior to 40S arrival via videocons and data exchanges. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.

Urine PH Test – Subject
Laptop RS1(2) Reboot
Laptop RSS2 Reboot / r/g 1009,
SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test
Ocular Health (OH) Vision Test
HAM Radio Session
IDENTIFIKATSIYA. Copy ИМУ-Ц micro-accelerometer data to laptop / r/g 6627
Vision Questionnaire
OH – Ocular Health Tonometry Setup
Ocular Health (OH) Blood Pressure Operations
S/G1 comm system test with MCC-H audio monitoring. / r/g 6654
OH – Blood Pressure Operations Assistance
OH – Ocular Health Tonometry Test – CMO
Ocular Health (OH) Tonometry Ops – Test Subject
Replacement of БИТС2-12 ЛКА1А device / r/g 6648
CIR Hardware Assembly
MDCA – Preparation
Dragon Transfers Review
IVA – Exercise Clothes Survey
Lab Window Shutter Close
Dried Clothes Stowage
CGBA4&6 – Hardware Setup
ТКГ 423 (DC1) Stowage and IMS Ops / r/g 6632
PAO Event
Crew prepares Pro K diet log and then logs food and beverages consumed while on controlled diet
Camcorder Setup to View LAB Remote Workstation (RWS) Monitor 3
OBT Dragon Offset Grapple No. 1
IMS Delta File Prep
OBT – Robotics On-board Training (ROBoT) Debrief Conference
JEM Airlock Pressurization and Leak Check
CUBESAT – Securing NanoRacks CubeSat Door
IMS and Stowage Conference
IVA –  Everyday Clothes Survey / USOS procedures
ISERV – Opening Window Shutter

Completed Task List Items

CTB 1226 unpack  [In Work]
ISS Guided Tour [In Work]
ISS Server 1 HD Stow [Complete]
NANO Plate Reader Part 4 [Competed]
NANO plate Reader Part 5 [Competed]
Rendezvous and Proximity Operations Program (RPOP) Setup [Competed]

Ground

MSS Activation [Complete]
SSRMS maneuver to PMM high hover and Dragon high hover
Electrical Power System (EPS) Solar Array Maximum Output Test 

