
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: Gerst removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides, which isolates the rack and allows ground teams to conduct another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Intravehicular Activity (IVA) Clothing:  Suraev began his IVA clothing study. Sufficient cotton clothes for a crew of six adds more than 900 pounds of freight to the ISS. Replacing crew uniforms with non-cotton apparel could reduce weight for cargo launches and trash removal, and provide crewmembers with more comfortable, longer-lasting clothes. The IVA Clothing investigation assessed these different types of clothing for long duration wear.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Six Month and Yearly Maintenance: Wiseman performed a thorough inspection of T2’s drive shaft and pulley teeth, motor and lateral belts, treadmill motor carriage bolts, motor belt, treadmill mounting screws, and cleaned the bearing housing. All observations were photo documented and downlinked to the ground for analysis. T2 was subsequently activated and checked out for nominal crew use.
Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter Remove and Replace (R&R):  Wiseman R&R’d the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter. After replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was performed.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Resize:  Gerst configured EMU 3003 in support of the arrival of FE-3 Wilmore on September 26th.  The EMU resize is required for any upcoming planned or contingency EVAs.
Sound Level Meter Operations: Gerst took routine measurements of the acoustic environment within the  habitable areas of the ISS. The data was then transferred to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for downlink and Ground analysis.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to a NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD) deployment cone avoidance position.  This was done to protect the SSRMS from a possible inadvertent NRCSD deployment during the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) operations tomorrow to return the NRCSD to the JEM Airlock.  
Today’s Planned Activities
All Activities were completed unless otherwise noted below.

Morning Inspection
Laptop RS1(2) Reboot / Onboard Computer System (БВС), 2.1.2 p. 2-3 (11)
Reload Laptop RSS2 / r/g 1009 step 1
SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test
Check position of MRM2 manual Circuit Breakers [АЗС] on DC БВП and status of Fuses on БПП-30, БПП-36 Fuse Boxes
Checking БПП-4, БПП-7 Fuses in MRM1
Inspection of СМ-У connector on МНР-НС separator pump behind АСУ panel 139
Kazbek Fit Check (117)
Vozdukh Deactivation
CIR – Hardware Teardown
SM Ventilation System Preventive Maintenance. Group А
CEVIS Isolator Checkout
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHS) Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter Changeout
Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK) Gathering
IVA – Photography of Clothes during Exercise
RGN –water flush into EDV (start)
USOS window shutter closure
IVA – Exercise Clothes Survey / USOS procedures
Unrine pH kit retrieval from storage
SOZh maintenance
RGN – water flush into EDV (end)
WRS – WSTA Fill for EDV processing
WPA Process Line B Connect
Т2 –  Yearly Maintenance
Expired ACTEX Filter cartridge R&R WHC
Dried Clothes Stowage / USOS procedures
VIZIR. Experiment Ops. / r/g 6631
EMU backpack replacement
NOD2N – Nadir Hatch to Unlatch Position
WRS Water Sample Analysis
ISERV – LAB window shutter open
ТКГ 423 (DC1) Stowage  and IMS Ops
RWS Powerup
SLM data transfer
T2 Activation and Checkout Video Setup
Т2 –  Unmanned Activation and Checkout (ACO)
Treadmill 2 (T2) Activation and Checkout (ACO) Video Teardown
SLM data transfer
TOCA Data Recording
IVA.  Photography of routine clothes
IVA – Everyday Clothes Survey / USOS procedures

Completed Task List Items

CTB 1226 unpack [In Work]
EVA Tool Gather  [In Work]
ISS Guided Tour [In Work]

Ground

Electrical Power System (EPS) Solar Array Maximum Output Test
SSRMS maneuver in preparation for NRCSD retrieval
Node 3 CDRA performance testing without Vozdukh

