
Payloads
Genes in Space-6: The crew performed a checkout of the miniPCR16s S/N 001 and S/N 002 with updated software on SSC 6 and miniPCR16 S/N 002 on SSC13. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage caused by increased exposure to radiation can affect the long-term health of astronauts. Genes in Space-6 determines the optimal DNA repair mechanisms that cells use in the spaceflight environment. The investigation evaluates the entire process in space for the first time by inducing DNA damage in cells and assessing mutation and repair at the molecular level using the miniPCR and the Biomolecule Sequencer tools aboard the space station.
European Physiology Module (EPM): The crew performed a power reconfiguration of the ESEM (Exchangeable Standard Electronic Module) in the EPM. European Physiology Module (EPM) is designed to investigate the effects of short- and long-duration space flight on the human body. It includes equipment for neuroscientific, cardiovascular, and physiological studies.
ACE-T-Ellipsoids (Nonequilibrium Processing of Particle Suspensions): The crew configured the FIR Facility in preparation of Ellipsoid experiment operations. The ACE-T-Ellipsoids investigation designs and assembles complex three-dimensional colloids – small particles suspended within a fluid medium – and controls density and behavior of the particles with temperature. These so-called ‘self-assembled colloidal structures’ are vital to the design of advanced optical materials and the control of particle density and behavior is important for their use in 3D printing and additive manufacturing. Microgravity provides insight into the relationships among particle shape, crystal symmetry, density, and other fundamental issues.
Systems
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: Today, the crew set up the recycle tank to drain to a ЕДВ-У. Following the setup the ground performed the tank drain using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, and repositioned the fill/drain valve to fill. The crew also swapped the ЕДВ in the offload ЕДВ spot of the UTS.
Completed Task List Activities:

OSO Hardware Consolidate
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Fluid QD (FQD) Plug Verification

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEMAL Depress Ops


P4 PVCU MDM Swap to Nominal Config


ATS PPL Load


Ground Supt for UPA Recycle Tank Drain/Fill


C&W Software State Change

