09-19-2009September 19, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 09/19/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew rest day.   With wakeup this morning at 2:30am EDT, the crew’s wake/sleep cycle has returned to “normal” (sleep – 5:30pm, wakeup – 2:00am.   Upon wakeup, FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Stott, FE-4 Thirsk & FE-5 DeWinne continued their new week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Nicole’s first, logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   As first task, FE-3 Romanenko started periodic status checks on the Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment in the SM (Service Module).    [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-16 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP), currently planted with Mizuna seeds.  Mizuna (Brassica rapa nipposinica) is a tasty variety of Japanese mustard greens, also known as California Peppergrass, eaten as a salad.]    The crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   As part of the house cleaning, CDR Padalka & FE-3 Romanenko conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning on fan screens, Group A, in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 & FS9), plus dust filter replacement in the FGB.   At ~9:50am EDT, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   FE-5 De Winne began the first day of his FD120 session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, focusing today on the blood draw.   Dr. Barratt stood ready to assist in the phlebotomy from an arm vein.  Afterwards, Frank began the 24-hour urine collections of the NUTRITION protocol.   [After the phlebotomy, Frank’s samples were first allowed to coagulate in the Repository for 20-30 minutes, then spun in the HRF RC (Human Research Facility/Refrigerated Centrifuge) and finally placed in MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  No thruster activity was allowed during the blood drawing.  The RC was later powered off after a temperature reset to limit wear on the compressor, and cleaned.  The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood & urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]   For FE-4 Thirsk, today was the start of his FD120 NUTRITION with Repository 24-hour urine collections, with the usual constraints for tomorrow’s blood draw (foregoing exercising and food intake for 8 hours before the phlebotomy).   For today’s several VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activities, on the crew’s free time, Nicole Stott, Bob Thirsk & Mike Barratt set up the hardware for another BISE (Bodies in the Space Environment) experiment run, then each of them worked through the protocol.     [The CSA (Canadian Space Agency)-sponsored BISE experiment studies how astronauts perceive Up and Down in microgravity. The specific objective of the BISE project is to conduct experiments during long-duration micro-G conditions to better understand how humans first adapt to micro-G and then re-adapt to normal gravity conditions upon return to earth.  This experiment involves comparisons of preflight, flight, and post-flight perceptions and mental imagery, with special reference to spaceflight-related decreases in the vertical component of percepts.  The test involves having subjects view a computer screen through a cylinder that blocks all other visual information. The astronauts are being presented with background images with different orientations relative to their bodies.]   For a second VolSci activity, Nicole & Bob configured the camcorder, then repeated an earlier EPO (Educational Program Operations) discussion & demo of “Weight vs. Mass”.   As a third VolSci task Thirsk finished uploading software for the IRIS (Images Reversal in Space) application, then performed the visual perception experiment and transferred the data file to an SSC (Station Support Computer).    [IRIS, an experiment in cognitive neuroscience, was designed, developed and tested by ISU (International Space University) students as part of their Master degree curriculum.  Based on a concept by Dr. Gilles Clement, IRIS only requires the use of one ISS laptop computer and one dedicated compact disk including all the software needed for the test.  The experiment complements current space research on the effect of gravity on three-dimensional visual perception. Ground based data were collected on Bob Thirsk at JSC prior to his flight.  The experiment was successfully executed for the first time on the ISS on 7/13/09.  Preliminary results show that there are less perception reversals in space, suggesting that the perception of 3D ambiguous figures is more stable in space than on the ground.  This result confirms that visual perception of ambiguous figures, like other cognitive processes, is less efficient when gravity “gets in the way” on Earth.]   Also as a VolSci activity, Frank De Winne meanwhile conducted the first session with the new exciting WEAR (Wearable Augmented Reality) payload, starting out with setting up the hardware, making connections to the freshly charged ESA multipurpose laptop, configuring the Canon G1 camera and conducting a speech recognition training session.  Frank then spent about 2.5 hrs to perform a standard maintenance procedure (Condensate Water Separator Assembly Desiccant Inspection) using WEAR hardware.  For evaluation by the ground, his user feedback was to be reported on an uplinked questionnaire.     [The WEAR system is a demonstrator to assist astronauts in performing tasks onboard the ISS.  Comprising a chest plate and a headset with microphone, headphone, motion sensor and camera, all connected to the laptop running the application software including speech recognition, WEAR allows crewmembers to consult procedures and manuals hands-free, with relevant information for the assigned task being displayed on a partially see-through screen before the astronaut’s eyes.  The astronaut controls the system via voice commands.  Background: Augmented reality (AR) is a term for a live direct or indirect view of a physical real-world environment whose elements are merged with-, or augmented by virtual computer-generated imagery, thus creating a “mixed reality”.  The augmentation is conventionally in real-time and in semantic context with environmental elements, like for example sports scores on TV during a match.  With the help of advanced AR technology (e.g. adding computer vision and object recognition) the information about the surrounding real world of the user becomes interactive and digitally usable.  Artificial information about the environment and the objects in it can be stored and retrieved as an information layer on top of the real world view.]   CDR Padalka completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Gennady also checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP-Moscow.   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5) and ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5).  For Gennady, it was Day 1 of working out on TVIS (2 hrs), Day 4 for Roman.    Later, Bob Thirsk transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).   Conjunction Alert:   Additional tracking of Object 35438 has significantly decreased the uncertainty of the conjunction, and the probability of collision was determined with high confidence to be well below the “yellow” threshold level.  The DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) was therefore cancelled this morning at 5:10am EDT.  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty -- Week 16)  3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):   Standing by.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    “Thank you Mike!  The pictures you took of the BCAT-5 Sample Module floating in front of a window on the ISS with the Earth visible in the background are wonderful.  NASA astronaut Don Pettit used one of these for the opening slide for the Plenary Address he gave to a major Procter & Gamble (P&G) Conference this week.  Don received rave reviews for a brilliant talk which was attended by about 400 Senior P&G scientists and managers; this is a 3-day P&G conference on Innovation co-organized by Matt Lynch, a P&G Principal Scientist and one of our BCAT-5 PIs.  We can’t thank you enough for your photographic prowess.  Please let us know if you ever decide to direct a movie; we’ll be among the first in line to buy tickets to see it.  We were also delighted to see from your photos that the P&G temperature sensitive samples made it to ISS undamaged (without getting cooked). “  BIOLAB (ESA):   No report.   Biological Rhythms (JAXA, BIORHYTHMS):   No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.   BISPHOSPHONATES:   “Bob, thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Your next session is scheduled for 9/21.”   CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):   No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    “The 63 day long experiment was started on 9/10.  The PI of Space Seed (Seiichiro Kamisaka) was very happy to see the excellent support Nicole provided in setting up their experiment and hopes she enjoy gardening in space!  All PEUs (Plant Experiment Units) are now working very well.  The seedlings in the PEU units are growing day by day.  The first file and image downlinks were completed successfully.”  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    “Mike, your last CCISS session is currently scheduled on 9/24 and 9/25.”  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Complete.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial 2 (JAXA):   Completed.  Commercial 3 (JAXA):   Completed.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    Experiment is progressing nominally with active and passive dosimeters measurements. Data downlink was performed on 8/31.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):   Planned.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):   The rack is continuously active in support of the Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility (PCDF) experiment. EDR is providing power/data and temperature control (via cooling loop) to PCDF.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    No report.   EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):   No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   “Additional sessions are being scheduled due to PI request.  These sessions will improve the photo moon data.  First opportunity for additional sessions will be 10/3-5; second opportunity will be 10/20-21.”  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):  “No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  EuTEF (European Technology Exposure Facility):   With landing of 17A on 9/11, EuTEF platform was returned to the ground.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory):  No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   To be launched by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   To be launched by 34P.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):   “Nicole, thanks for sticking with us and completing your first ambulatory monitoring session during this extremely busy time!  We know that the scheduling of this session relative to other activities was less than optimal for you.  Unfortunately, some of the busiest times for the crew (like early and late in a mission) are also times that are especially critical for science and at points that have less flexibility.  We do understand your concerns and will make every effort to identify these types of situations in the future and fully investigate options that might exist.  And just so you’ll know, the TVIS constraint with the Cardiopres has been documented for I21/22 (we’d appreciate knowing if this constraint should also apply to the Holter as your note seems to indicate) and we plan to add robotics as a specific example to an existing constraint against two-handed ops while wearing Cardiopres.  Again, we thank you for your perseverance and would also like to express our appreciation to Bob and Frank for their invaluable assistance both on and off the timeline!”   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:  No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space):   No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    On 9/8, Ethernet trouble (Low and Medium Rate Data Line) communication error occurred.  The Software Reboot/Power Cycle is scheduled for 9/22.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):   Preparation began on 9/15.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MDS (Mice Drawer System):   “Many thanks, Nicole and Bob and all on orbit who may have supported you while you helped maintain the MDS facility and the health of the mice this past week.  Special thanks for the back-up training efforts especially as you prepared to support the capture and berthing of the HTV.  All of our telemetry continues to indicate that the facility is functioning as expected and the mice not only are adapting to zero gravity activities but also are thriving.  We have every expectation for nominal operations in the next and coming weeks.  Thanks again for helping to remedy the unexpected challenges.  Our long term goal remains to help provide potential remedies to the more than forty million persons who suffer from osteoporosis and related degenerative bone conditions.  Continued best wishes to you.”  Microbe-1 (JAXA):    “Complete, thank you for the good job.  Microbe Swab Sampling on 3 Diffusers and tube installation into MELFI were completed.  2nd sample collection and photograph was completed and returned by 17A.”  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  MMA measurement with tapping for Space Seed and TCQ inside JEM was completed (9/11-9/15).  On 9/17, measurement was started for HTV docking to ISS.  MISSE (Materials ISS Experiment):  Ongoing.  Moon Photography from ISS (JAXA EPO):   No report.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY:    Ongoing.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    Area Dosimeter deployment was completed on 9/14 to start radiation monitoring on JPM and JLP.  “Great thanks for the effort to fit this task into the timeline.”  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):   Temperature monitoring by ground operation is now in progress and temp. is stable around 20 degrees.   PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):   RadSilk experiment has started.  Sortie sample (launch control sample) was returned on 17A.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):   Ongoing.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):   Temperature monitoring by ground operation is now in progress.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):   “Nicole, thanks for completing your first week of Sleep logging.  We will downlink the data at the end of the month.  Mike, thanks for completing another week of Sleep logging.  We will downlink the data at the end of the month.  Bob, thanks for completing another week of Sleep logging.  We will downlink the data at the end of the month.  Frank, thanks for completing another week of Sleep logging.  We will downlink the data at the end of the month.  Bob, you are scheduled to complete the monthly Sleep Actiwatch download and initialization for all 4 crewmembers on 9/20.  You will also be changing the Lithium battery and getting an Actiwatch ready for Jeff Williams.  SMILES (JAXA):   “Launched via HTV-1 on 9/10.  The system C/O will be started on 9/25.”   SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):     SOLAR was put in Pointing Mode and the Sun observation window started on 09/15.  SOLSPEC and SOLACES have since been acquiring science data.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):   No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.  SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):   No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    VLE-1 completed.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    Complete/Planned (2J/A Stage). No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):    Through 9/15, the ground has received a total of 27,056 frames of ISS CEO imagery for review and cataloguing.  “We resumed operations support with submission of a daily CEO Target List for 9/12.  Since then, we are pleased to confirm your acquisition of imagery for the Betsiboka River Delta in Madagascar – excellent, cloud-free views were taken - this imagery is still under review for completion of requirements.  Good job!   We note with interest your ongoing efforts to acquire night-time imagery of auroras, lightning in clouds, and cities.  Cities are particularly challenging but several of your attempts are publication worthy including:  Dublin, Ireland; southern Italy and Sicily; and Palm Islands, United Arab Emirates.  Thanks for these beautiful images!  During the weeks of joint ISS/Shuttle operations two of your recent images were published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website:  Black Point Lava Flow, Arizona and the Sea of Galilee, northern Israel.  Thanks for these striking views of two of our target areas!”   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Etosha Pan Region Flooding, Namibia and Angola (Dynamic Event. Heavy rains in Angola have produced flooding of the plains to the north of the Etosha Pan.  Looking to the right of track for swollen rivers and large patches of water to the north of the Pan.  Images that capture sunlight off of the water surfaces would be particularly useful in mapping the extent of flooding), East Haruj Megafans, Libya (looking to the right of track for this megafan complex, bordered by dark volcanic rocks to the northwest and a large dune field to the southeast.  The megafans are comprised of sinuous criss-crossing dry river channels.  Overlapping oblique mapping frames, taken parallel to the orbit track, may highlight subtle surface features of the megafans), and Beagle Workshop, Brazil (Beagle Site.  A scientific and educational workshop organized by several organizations [including NASA] will be taking place in Paraty, Brazil over this coming week.  Part of the workshop includes scientific cruises aboard the Brazilian tall ship Tocorime set to coincide with ISS overpasses in order to obtain photographs of the ship.  While patchy cloud cover is predicted to be present, this target opportunity is given as a practice run for locating Paraty and ships in the bay to the east.  Looking to the left of track for the city and bay).   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  