
iPad Operating System (iOS) Upgrade:  Today the crew connected the iPad Air 2 to an Space Station Computer (SSC), allowing ground controllers to update the operating system.
Dragon Departure Preparations:  Today the crew completed a computer based training session to review the Dragon departure documentation and a Robotic Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session which included two simulated Dragon release runs.  
Commercial Orbital Transport Services (COTS) UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Checkout:  In preparation for the upcoming SpaceX-12 unberth and release, the crew coordinated with ground teams to activate the CUCU System and perform a Crew Command Panel (CCP) checkout. The backup CCP unit was installed and checked out successfully, so the activity to change back to the prime CCP was aborted.  CCP and CUCU provides a command and telemetry communications link between ISS and Dragon during free flight operations in the vicinity of ISS.
Lighting Effects: Upon wakeup, the 51S subject provided a sleep log entry, and conducted a series of 3 Cognition tests throughout the day. The subject also completed 3 of 4 urine collections, which are divided within a 24-hour period. The fourth sample will be collected tomorrow morning.  Each sample is stowed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for freezing until their return and analysis. The Lighting Effects experiment hopes to better quantify and qualify how lighting can effect habitability of spacecraft. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
Gould Tribute Video: Today, a crewmember recorded a self-shooting video to pay tribute to Canadian pianist Glenn Gould. This video message will be part of a tribute concert by the Toronto Symphony Orchestra on September 22, in honor of Canadian pianist Glenn Gould, who would have turned 85 on September 25. Gould represented Canada on the “Golden Record” on board both Voyager 1 and 2. The video will also be promoted on social media.
Spaceborne Computer Installation and Checkout: The crew installed the Spaceborne Computer hardware into side-by-side EXPRESS Rack locker locations, configured the power, data, and thermal connections to the rack, before photographing the configuration and transferring the photos for downlink. Spaceborne Computer intends to run a year-long experiment of high performance commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) computer system on the International Space Station (ISS). During high radiation events, verify if the systems can still operate correctly by lowering their power, and therefore, speed. This research helps scientists identify ways of using software to protect ISS computers without expensive, time-consuming or bulky protective shielding. 
Advanced Research Thermal Passive Exchange (ARTE) Thermal Exchange Setup and Hardware Stow: The crew completed the 2nd experiment run of the ARTE Thermal Exchange investigation. The Thermal Exchange hardware was installed in the MSG work volume, and the data was transferred from the SD card to the SSC for downlink. The hardware was then removed and stowed from the MSG. The ARTE Thermal Exchange investigation is sponsored by the Italian Space Agency (ASI); and studies the performance of a new type of heat pipe, which is a passive, low-weight device used to increase a material’s heat transfer capability. The investigation researches a new technology, called Axially Grooved Heat Pipes, which could be integrated into existing spacecraft, as well as used for future missions.
MagVector: The crew completed closeout and clean-up activities for the 13th experiment run of the MagVector investigation that began last week. The European Space Agency (ESA) MagVector investigation studies how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research not only helps improve future International Space Station experiments and electrical experiments, but it could offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general, the backbone of our technology.
NanoRack Platforms-1 Module Removal: The crew removed NanoRacks Modules 67 and 72 from NanoRacks Platform-1 for return on SpaceX-12.

NanoRack Module 67: NanoRacks-NDC-Ames for Space-Bacteria Testing determines whether bacteria mutate at a different rate in the microgravity environment of space. The experiments extend previous work on virulence in space by exposing different batches of bacteria to toxins known to cause mutations. Automated equipment tests and photographs batches of bacteria contained within different concentrations of toxins so that the observed mutation rates can be compared with those observed from control groups on Earth.
NanoRack Module 72: NanoRacks-CUBERIDER-1 (NanoRacks-CR-1) is an educational module that runs on computer code written by 9th and 10th graders. Students program sensors on NanoRacks-CR-1 to record data on the microgravity environment and conduct tests aboard the station and then send results back to Earth. Through this investigation, students devise their own experiments and experience space science firsthand.

The NanoRack Platform is a multipurpose research facility that supports NanoRacks Modules by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity.
Rodent Research 9 (RR-9):  To prepare for RR-9 Live Animal Return (LAR) activities, the crew will participated in a crew conference they setup and powered on the LAR transporters returning on SpX-12. The RR-9 experiment studies how microgravity affects the immune systems, muscles and bones of rodents during extended stays aboard the ISS.  After approximately 30 days aboard the ISS, the mice will be returned to Earth where scientists on the ground will study how their time in space has affected various tissues, including brain, muscle, heart, joint, the eyes and the immune system. 
Tangolab-1 Card Cube Removal:  The crew removed two cards from the TangoLab-1 facility and inserted them into the Space Automated Bio-product Lab (SABL). The cards contain one experiment to study genetic mutations in fruit flies and one to study Carbon Dioxide scrubbing in cactus. TangoLab-1 is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing aboard the International Space Station (ISS).
Polar Sample Transfer from MELFI: The crew transferred samples from MELFI-1 and MELFI-2 to the four returning Polars using -32°C Ice Bricks and a Double Coldbag in preparation for SpaceX-12 descent.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

AC Vacuum Cleaner Debris Bag Remove and Replace
At Home In Space Culture Photo
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal
Combustion Integrated Rack Alignment Guide Removal Handover
ISS HAM Radio Power Up
COTS UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Crew Command Panel (CCP) Swap Out
COTS UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Crew Command Panel (CCP) Checkout
COTS UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Crew Command Panel (CCP) Swap- ABORTED
COTS UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Crew Command Panel (CCP) Checkout- ABORTED
Early Mission Debrief Conference
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Intravehicular Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter (IV-TEPC) Relocate
Environmental Health System (EHS) Portable O2 Monitor (POM) Calibration
ESA Weekly crew conference
ASI Biomission script recording
In Situ message recording
PERSEO message recording
ESA-PAO-CORRIERE
ESA-PAO-RAI PRIX
Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-Board Training
Virtual Reality Training (VRT) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER)
Flight Director/ISS CREW CONFERENCE
Gould Tribute Video
HRF Continuous Blood Pressure Device Hardware Consolidate and Transfer
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval Insertion Operations
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
HRF Generic Urine Collection Lighting Effects Male – Subject
IMS Delta file prep
iPad Update Start
iPad Update End 
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
ISS Crew Adaptation
ISS Crew Orientation
Lighting Effects Cognition Test – Subject
USB Jumpdrive Return and PPS Reconfiguration
NanoRacks Platform-1 Modules Removal
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Departure Review
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Release
ODF Replacement on iPads and Samsung Tablets
Photo TV CUCU Video Deactivation
Photo/TV CUCU Video Setup
SpX Berthed Image
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event Imagery Record
Polar Sample Transfer From MELFI
RED 960GB SSD Troubleshooting
Rodent Research Crew Conference
Rodent Research 9 Live Animal Return Review
Rodent Research 9 Transporter Setup
Spaceborne Computer Installation and Checkout
Space Headaches – Daily Questionnaire
Thermal Exchange Hardware Setup & Stow
TangoLab-1 Card Cube Remove
TangoLab-1 SABL Insertion
Torque Wrench Stowage Audit
Soyuz 734 Transfers and IMS Ops
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 2 Stow Alternate
Video Recording of Greetings
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
Cargo Transfer to Dragon
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 1.
Nikon still camera sync with station time
MRM1 fan screen (Group B) cleaning, cleaning behind panels 405, 406
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
Preventive Maintenance of SM Ventilation Subsystem. Group В2
Replacement of CO2 Filter Unit ИК0501
Analysis of SM atmosphere for Freon using Freon Leak Analyzer/Detector (ФИТ)
ISS Repress Using Air from Progress 436 [AO] СрПК Section 2 (start)
ISS Repress Using Progress 436 [AO] СрПК Section 2 (terminate)
СОЖ maintenance
Terminate Soyuz 734 Samsung PC Battery Recharge
Recharging Soyuz 734 Samsung PC Battery, start
Preventive Maintenance of MRM2 Passive Docking Assembly [АСП] and Soyuz 734 Active Docking Assembly [ACA] Hatch Sealing Mechanisms
Photo of a scuffmark left by the Active Docking Assembly Probe on the MRM2 Active Docking Assembly (АСП) Receiving Cone
Downlink Photos of Docking Cone Internal Surface via OCA
Bringing ODF up to date using Soyuz 734 delivered files
CALCIUM. Bag transfers from Soyuz and setup for exposure
URAGAN. Observation and photography
ECON-M. Observation and photography

Completed Task List Activities

Galley Food Warmer Switch from Left to Right Units
Dragon 12 Cargo Ops Packing (In work) 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

None 

