
Biochemical Profile: the crew completed Urine and Blood collections today. The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): The crew replaced the compensator module in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Hi Bit-depth Multi-Spectral (HiBMS) Imaging package today.  This is in preparation for the upcoming ACME E-Field Flames investigation. The ACME experiment series being performed in the CIR includes five independent studies of gaseous flames. The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth.  Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Atomization:  The crew replaced sample syringes for the Atomization investigation today. The Atomization experiment investigates the disintegration processes of a low-speed water jet for various jet issue conditions in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to validate the new atomization concept by observing the process using a high-speed camera. The knowledge gained can be applied to improve various engines utilizing spray combustion.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): Today the crew cleaned and exchanged sample cartridges to prepare for ground-commanded operations. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
SpaceTex-2 and Metabolic Space:  A crewmember donned instrumentation hardware during an exercise session. SpaceTex fabrics provide a higher rate of sweat evaporation and a corresponding higher evaporative heat loss compared to conventional cotton fabrics used by astronauts on the ISS.  Metabolic Space provides a technology demonstration for a measurement system worn by astronauts that supports cardio-pulmonary diagnosis during physical activities of astronauts living onboard the ISS, while maintaining unrestricted mobility.
ESA Education Payload Operations (EPO): Crew performed an educational photo opportunity for the Crystallization of Charged Particles Experiment as part of the Flying Classroom 2 series. The activities related to this project are intended to encourage and strengthen the teaching of science curriculum, and through this, stimulate the curiosity of students and motivate them towards further study of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) subjects. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Closeout Panel and Fastener Survey: The crew have reported that several fasteners on WHC closeout panels have become unusable, mainly due to a failure of the D-ring handle. Engineering has determined that it could be possible to provide replacement fasteners for on-orbit replacement if certain aspects of the panels and the receiver socket are in adequate condition. To assess the condition of these panels, the crew inspected and photo-documented all WHC closeout panels, fastener, and fastener receiver sockets for analysis by engineering experts.
Instrumentation System (IWIS) Remote Sensing Unit (RSU) Antenna Replacement: Today the crew Removed and Replaced (R&R) a damaged IWIS antenna in the Russian Service Module (SM) and the Columbus module. Once complete with the R&R, the crew inspected the other seven RSUs on ISS and found damage to those in Node 1 and Node 3; those antennas were also replaced and photographs of the remaining antennas were taken for documentation purposes.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


JEM RMS SFA Stow [Ops start at 22:30 GMT]

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Thursday, 09/20: Reboost [TIG 263/18:06 GMT]

Payloads

ER2 IPEGH install (NASA)
Atomization (JAXA)
HRF Biomedical Profile Urine Blood Collections (NASA)
BCAT Battery changeout and Camera ops (NASA)
CIR HW return (NASA)
Team Task Survey (NASA)
BEST Sequencer Hardware stow (NASA)
EML GAS bottle He open/AR close (Joint)
JEMAL pressurization and leak check (JAXA)

Systems

EXT MDM Card Swap
ER2 iPEHG Install
N3 Smoke Detector relocate
Education Imagery Recording (Truss and Solar Arrays)
National Park Downlink Message 

Thursday, 09/20:
Payloads

Metabolic-SpaceTex2 Ops (ESA)
ESA EPO Flying Classroom-2 (ESA)
Blood Collection (JAXA)
HRF Biomedical Profile Urine Blood Collections (NASA)
BEST Ops Review (NASA)
MSL Vacuum sensor R&R (NASA)

Systems

LAB Ethernet Switch Deploy
IVA Tool Bag Audit

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


HRF Generic Urine Collection
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Spin Conclude
Thermal insulation of Orlan-MKS No.5, equipment setup, R/G review.
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
COSMOCARD. Preparing for and Starting 24-hr ECG Recording
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Thermal insulation of Orlan-MKS No.5
Atomization syringe replacement 2
Combustion Integrated Rack Doors Open
Cleaning FGB Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger (ГЖТ) Detachable Screens 1, 2, 3
Combustion Integrated Rack Front End Cap Open
ACME Chamber Insert Configuration
DOSIS Main Box Mode Switching from Mode 1 to Mode 2 during a solar quiet period.
Metabolic Space equipment connection and calibration
Thermolab instrumentation for Spacetex-2
Thermal insulation of Orlan-MKS No.5, Closeout ops.
Demating TLM connector from ЗУ-С.
Metabolic Space instrumentation
Progress 439 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tank 2 Shell Compression
Repairs of SM Interior Panel to Install overlay sheets, day 2 (panel 234).
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval And Insertion Operations
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Retrieval
CEVIS exercise session for MetabolicSpace and Spacetex-2 experiments
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Cleaning
Metaspace hardware deinstrumentation and stowage
Thermolab de-instrumentation for Spacetex-2
EPO Gerst Flying Classroom 2 – Crystallization of Charged Particles Big Picture Words
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Setup
ACME Igniter Align Assistant
Orthostatic Stability Evaluation with LBNP.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Sample Holder Exchange
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Installation
Audio Answers to the Questions from the Michurin State Agrarian University
ACME Chamber Insert Configuration
Food Acceptability Questionnaire – Subject
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
IPEHG Installation Review
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
EPO Gerst Flying Classroom 2 – Crystallization of Charged Particles Recording
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Sampling condensate water [КАВ] upstream of СРВ-К2М Gas-liquid mixture filter (ФГС) to drink bags, end
Progress 439 (DC1) Cargo Transfers and IMS Ops
Combustion Integrated Rack Front End Cap Close
HDPCG Relocate
Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Isolator Inspection Follow Up.
Sampling condensate water [КАВ] upstream of СРВ-К2М БКО (Water Purification Column Unit) – configuration set up, installing sampler
Combustion Integrated Rack Doors Close
СОЖ maintenance
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval And Insertion Operations
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
R&R 2 IWIS RSU Antennas and Inspect the Other Antennas
PEHG Hardware Install
Collecting condensate water samples [КАВ] to [СРВ-К2М] БКО, sampler replacement
Rodent Research Habitat Stow [Deferred]
EPO Flying Classroom Crystallization Photos
Waste and Hygiene Compartment Closeout Panel and Fastener Survey
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Stow
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Zero-G Battery Testing MWA Preparation
MERLIN Express Rack Temporary Removal
ASEPTIC. External inspection and photography of nutrient medium before the experiment
Zero-G Battery Testing
EXPRESS Rack 2 Locker Removal [Deferred]
In Flight Maintenance Node 3 Smoke Detector Gather
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
EXPRESS Rack 2 Locker Removal
MELFI Icebrick Insertion
EPO Flying Classroom Crystallization Photos
Sampling condensate water [КАВ] to БКО [СРВ-К2М], removing sampler, equipment disassembly

 