09-11-2010September 11, 2010ISS On-Orbit Status 09/11/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew rest day.   Crew sleep cycle will      briefly shift tonight to the left by 30 minutes for tomorrow’s      Progress 39P docking (~7:58am EDT), then return to normal:  Today: Sleep      – 5:00pm (reg. 5:30pm); 9/12: Wake – 2:00am (reg. 2:00am),      Sleep – 6:00pm (reg. 5:30pm); 9/13: Wake – 2:00am, Sleep      – 5:30pm EDT.    At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson, FE-4 Wheelock & FE-6 Walker continued their week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 4th for Doug & Shannon, 8th for Tracy, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   After wake-up, Tracy began another 4-day session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), her 5th onboard run, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 4 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]   Shannon & Tracy joined up for ~3 hours of weekend housekeeping in the USOS (US Segment).    [The weekly activity includes vacuuming, wiping down of frequently touched surfaces (i.e. handrails, UOPs [Utility Outlet Panels], light panels, ATUs [Audio Terminal Units]), inspecting surfaces for condensate collection or visible microbial growth, cleaning surfaces where trash is collected, verifying that stowage configuration does not violate guidelines, inspecting & cleaning power supply grills & computer vents with vacuum cleaner, toweling & clothing-drying areas & handrails, wiping down walls and towel hangers, inspecting flammable materials, and ensuring that all UOPs/SUPs (Standard Utility Panels), rack power outlets and power strips are clear of flammable material such as fabric, plastic/trash bags, bungees, plastics, paper, etc.]   At ~4:00am EDT, CDR Skvortsov & FE-3 Kornienko held a one-hour S-band/audio conference (konsultatsiya) with ground advisors to discuss TORU (Teleoperator Rendezvous & Docking System) specifics for tomorrow morning’s rendezvous & docking of Progress M-07M/39P.   Alex Skvortsov & Mikhail Kornienko completed their 2nd preliminary orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test run with the Russian Chibis suit in preparation for their return to gravity on 9/24 with Soyuz 22S (along with Tracy Caldwell-Dyson), conducting the ODNT exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill.  Each crewmember took turns as Subject and CMO (Crew Medical Officer).   Alex was supported in his one-hour session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 5:53am, Mikhail at 7:28am EDT.     [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of the crewmember’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  The preparatory training consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -20, -25, -30, and -40 mmHg for five min. each while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]   Working in the JAXA Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-5 Wheelock finished up on his two-day maintenance of the FPEF MI (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility / Marangoni Inside) payload.    [Doug’s several hours of maintenance included removing the MI cassette from the MI core to allow cleaning the inside of the core from the cassette opening, then also from the core door side, exchanging the MI cooling disk’s O-ring and the absorbent, inserting the cassette into the core, depressurizing the core’s inside for a leak check, and installing the core back into the MI body.]   FE-5 Yurchikhin completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module).     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Fyodor also performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.   Walker completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router & FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) laptops (the latter required to mitigate the problem of iPV and OSTPV not opening up procedures due to a memory leak in the “Tomcat” software).  After a period of no less than 10 min later, Shannon also rebooted the two ISS network servers (SERVER1 & 2).   Shannon filled out her weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4 & FE-5 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Alex at ~6:30am, Tracy at ~7:35am, Mikhail at ~8:20am, Fyodor at ~11:00am, Wheels at ~3:50pm EDT.   At ~8:10am, Wheels powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 8:15am conducted a ham radio session with students at the Norwegian Museum of Science, Technology and Medicine, Oslo, Norway.   At ~9:30am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   At ~10:25am, Sasha & Fyodor held an amateur radio session with attendees of a forum of “radio hams” in the woods near the Russian city of Orel, dedicated to the 67th anniversary of Orel liberation from German occupation.  The forum is attended by veterans of the Great Patriotic War, students, mass media, and the administration of Orel City and Region.   The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR/2x, FE-3/2x), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-5).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after the last T2 session of the day but is now regularly being done once a week after the last T2 session.]  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Four -- Week 14)   2-D NANO Template (JAXA):     No report.   3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):   This ISS backup radiation monitoring system remains non-operational.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    “Wheels, many thanks for supporting us with some demanding BIOLAB activity this week.  This microscope cassette is a very important step to prepare the Facility for the next experiment (TRIPLELUX-A).”   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.   BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):   No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    “Shannon, we are so thankful for your work on the CFE-2 ICF-1 pre-wet and bubble tests you performed on Wed and Thurs.  The data from those runs will be used to confirm our theories that predict such flows in a highly quantitative way.  Eventually we want to use container geometry to control fluids so that all fluid systems aboard spacecraft (i.e. water processing systems, fuels, ...) can function passively without moving parts! i.e., water processors, fuel systems, etc.  Your over-the-shoulder view provided great footage for presentations down the road.”  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    On 9/6 & 9/8, eight test points from the science matrix were successfully performed.  Two test points were performed with heptane fuel at a 0.7 atm chamber environment of 20% O2, 35% CO2, and 45% N2.  Two test points were performed with heptane fuel and  four test points were performed with methanol fuel at a 0.7 atm chamber environment of 18% O2, 40% CO2, and 42% N2.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.   CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    Final data collection completed on Friday, 9/3, followed by power down; last operations before HTV2 stage  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    The last run of DECLIC for INC 23/24 ended on Friday afternoon, 9/10.  No anomaly can be reported and the sequence was successful.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Active Measure, ESA):    No report.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA): (Kids in Space):   No report.   EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    Photo session was performed on 7/22.  . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]     “Tracy & Wheels, your persistence with the ERB-2 batteries have paid off and we are happy to report the successful commissioning of ERB-2!  We celebrate this with you, and thank you for your hard work and dedication to ERB throughout the recent increments.”  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET (JAXA):   We reached half point in this series experiment.  Successful science continues and no issue/problem so far.  Ferulate:    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):   No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    “Wheels, we appreciate your help to clean the FSL Video Management Unit Data Tape Recorder.  Unfortunately, no joy, and the teams on ground could not test the (ground commanded) backup of data on the tape.  This is puzzling, and our engineers are scratching their heads.”  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.   HAIR (JAXA):   No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 1628 images have been taken to date.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     No report.   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:   No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:     No report.   KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Acquiring science data in JAXA’s Kibo.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    “Marangoni cassette exchange (retry) will be performed in 9/10-9/12.  Ground Operation team at the TSKC/JAXA is OK to fully support the weekend task.  We appreciate crewmember effort to recover the science experiment!”  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    No report.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally. The Payload MDM PEP R9 software patch was uploaded on 9/8 which restored the bandwidth for MISSE-7 data.  All experiments are active and the Science data downlink is 100% restored.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.   MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   Caldwell, Wheelock, and Walker performed on 8/30.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.   NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADIAK:   No report.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    No report.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    PCRF maintenance will be performed on 7/29-30.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    “Tracy, thanks for the excellent work that you have done for the experiment so far.  All of your barcodes and logging information have been received on the ground. You're almost finished with only one Pro K session remaining!  This session is currently being timelined for weeks 26/27 (begin around 9/11 and conclude with blood ops around 9/15. Have a great week!”  “Wheels, now that you have completed your third Pro K session there are only two sessions remaining. Thanks for the hard work in completing your Pro K diet log, pH log and submitting barcodes from your FD60 session.  All have been received on the ground. Your next Pro K session will be scheduled on or near FD120.”  “Shannon, thanks for completing your third Pro K session. Your attention to detail as well as the science constraints is greatly appreciated. Your Pro K diet log and pH log have been received on the ground as well as your barcodes. You're over the hump with only two sessions remaining. The next Pro K session will be scheduled on or near FD120.”   RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   "Tracy, Wheels and Shannon, thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test!  Reaction Self Test is now available on the T61ps as well as the A31ps.  Please let us know if you run into any issues with Reaction Self Test on the T61ps.”  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    PCRF checkout was performed on 7/29-30 (see PCRF).   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):    1. CB Function Checkout is on-going.  This is periodical maintenance to check nominal functions and is required every 6 months.  Especially, the actuators such as Microscope stage movement need to be activated and checked periodically.  2. CBEF Troubleshooting: Ground commanding only.  Have confirmed that temporary black out of down-linked images still happens but will not be an impediment for the next experiment schedule in increment 25.  T/S is continuing.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    The experiment (observation) has been resumed from 8/23 (GMT235).  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Tracy, Shannon and Wheels: Thank you for completing your sleep logs this past week.  We look forward to bringing your data down on 9/27 for analysis.”  SMILES (JAXA):    8th re-cooling attempt is underway.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion Soret Coefficient):     No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   Sun visibility window started on 9/3.  An AIB failure occurred on 9/7 and caused a reboot of SOLAR.  Facility was recovered and 3 observation orbits were lost for SOLACES.  The current Sun visibility window is predicted to end on 9/13 (GMT256).  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    “Thank you, Wheels, for all your work for the SOLO experiment, it looks like we are having a very smooth second session.  Thank you, Shannon, for all your work for the SOLO experiment, despite the unfortunate outcome.”   Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    “Everything went fantastic Friday, and we are ready for science.  Thank you Tracy!  Good show all around!”   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Congratulations Tracy !  The data collection for VO2max and THERMOLAB is completed.  We really appreciate your participation to this experiment!”  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   “Tracy, thanks for completing the on-orbit blood draws for Vascular.  The PI team is looking forward to welcoming you back in Houston and perform post-flight BDC on R+1.”  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring data.  Command list file uplink performed on 9/8.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    Acquiring data. Command list file uplink performed on 9/1.  VO2max (NASA):    “Tracy, congratulations on completing the inflight portion of the VO2max study!  We appreciate all the feedback you have given during your time on ISS.  Analysis of 9/9 data will begin soon.  You were asked not to trash your subject kit because we will be salvaging some of the contents for return to earth.  The team looks forward to seeing you on the ground for your R+1 test.”  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):   Through 9/7, the ground has received a total of 3,998 frames of Exp-24 CEO imagery for review and cataloging.   “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following targets with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists:  Hurricane Earl, Atlantic Ocean – several excellent sessions with a number of published frames; and Asuncion, Paraguay – two sessions with good context views – requirements are now complete for this target.  Two of your striking views were published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website this past week.  First was a dramatic shot of Hurricane Earl as it reached Category 4 intensity northeast of San Juan Puerto Rico on GMT Day 242.  Second was an excellent context view of volcanic landscapes in the central Andes of Chile and Argentina.  This remote, high-altitude area around Cerro Condor and Laguna Verde exhibits complex landforms associated with a history of intermittent volcanism and erosion by snow, ice, water and wind.  Kudos to the crew for this wonderful imagery!”   CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Antananarivo, Madagascar (looking to the left of track for the capital city of Antananarivo.  The urban area is located roughly in the center of the island on a rocky ridge.  Context views of the urban area and surroundings were requested), Lusaka, Zambia (ISS had a near-nadir viewing pass over the city of Lusaka.  The city is located in the southern part of the central plateau of Zambia.  Overlapping frames of the urban area were requested), Algiers, Algeria (looking to the right of track for Algiers.  The city is located on the Mediterranean coast, and is known as "Algiers the White" due to the abundance of white buildings.  Overlapping frames of the urban area and adjacent coastline were requested), Tungurahua Volcano, Ecuador (weather was predicted to be mostly clear over this active volcano.  Tungurahua is one of Ecuador's most active volcanoes, with steam and ash emissions observed as recently as August 2010.  Overlapping mapping frames of the volcano summit and flanks were requested to enable mapping of recent ash deposits), and Fourmile Canyon Fire, CO (Dynamic Event.  Looking to the right of track towards Boulder, CO for smoke plumes from the Fourmile Canyon Fire.  The fire is currently 30% contained.  Detailed imagery of smoke plumes and burned areas may be useful for fire hazard operations and post-fire analysis).  