
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2): Today a crewmember collected saliva and body surface samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation and placed them inside a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1-year period. After the samples returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time.
Atomization: The crew replaced sample syringes and water trap for the Atomization investigation today for Run #8. The Atomization experiment investigates the disintegration processes of a low-speed water jet for various jet issue conditions in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to validate the new atomization concept by observing the process using a high-speed camera. The knowledge gained applies towards improving various engines utilizing spray combustion.
Material Science Research Rack (MSRR): As a verification of the recent master controller replacement, the crew disconnected the Vacuum Resource System (VRS) line from the rack in order to allow the ground team to perform an activation and leak check of the system for a 24hr period. MSRR-1 can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules (EMs). In this way, many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, are analyzed in order to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved material. 
Meteor: Today the crew replaced a failed T61P Laptop with a spare for use by the Meteor experiment. The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument used to observe meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. The study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub, Iodination, Flow Test, and H20 Recharge: In preparation for the upcoming H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Battery R&R ExtraVehicular Activities (EVAs), the crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and tested water samples for conductivity. An EMU flow test was also performed on EMU 3003 and FE-5’s Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garment (LCVG) was filled using EMU 3004.  EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU Transport Loop.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation: Today the USOS Crew reviewed the EVA Briefing Package for the upcoming HTV-7 Battery R&R EVAs. This comprehensive review included a Tool Configuration Summary, detailed EVA Procedures and Timelines, Get Ahead Procedures, and Notes, Cautions and Warnings associated with the aforementioned tasks. Once complete with their self-study, the crew had a conference with EVA specialists to answer their questions and address any concerns.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Live Event: Today Feustel participated in a live PAO event with ABC News Correspondent Bob Woodruff for release on the ABC News Web. During the event, they discussed how the ISS crewmembers fixed the leak in Soyuz 55S, talked about the upcoming HTV-7 Battery R&R EVAs, and learned what the crew miss most about Earth while on ISS.
iPad iOS Update: Today the crew configured two spare iPads, a Cargo Ops/Spare and a Food Intake Tracker (FIT) Spare, for update by ground specialists. By updating these spare iPads, the crew can verify there are no capability issues between the new operating system and applications needed for nominal ISS operations. iOS updates are completed periodically to ensure the latest security patches are on-board.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


N3 MCA Activation

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Wednesday, 09/12:
Payloads

Rodent Research 7 dissections
RADIN-2 retrieve and handover
Food Acceptability

Systems

WHC Urine Receptacle R&R
EMU LLB Autocycle Termination

Thursday, 09/13:
Payloads

Microbial Tracking-2 Saliva Collection
Rodent Research 7 Dissections

Systems

HTV-7 OBT

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


IMS Update
Makita Battery Charge
DUBRAVA. Observation and photography using Photo Equipment
Microbial Tracking-2 Sample MELFI Insert
Hematocrit Test
Hematocrit Hardware Stowage
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub Initiation
ALGOMETRIYA. Tenso- and thermos-algometry setup and measurement session
XF305 Camcorder Setup
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Test activation of СКВ2 Power Supply in idling mode with СКВ1 compressor
Atomization syringe installation
Microbial Tracking-2 Body Sample Questionnaire
Microbial Tracking-2 Body Sample Collection
EVA Support Panel (ПОВ-2) power removal in DC1 and isolation of failure to deactivate
Microbial Tracking-2 Sample MELFI Insert
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Termination
Rodent Research Gather 1
Rodent Research Dissection Review
Extravehicular Activity (EVA)  Training Review
Test activation of СКВ2 Power Supply in idling mode with СКВ1 Compressor
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub Reconfiguration
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Flow Meter Measurement
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Iodination
Meteor System Disk Recovery
SEPARATSIYA. Preventive maintenance activation of ЦМВД distiller
Glacier Desiccant Swap
Rodent Research Review
Rodent Research LAB SD Camcorder Video Setup
Rodent Research Setup
ALGOMETRIYA. Pressure Algometry Measurement Ops
Food Acceptability Questionnaire – Subject
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config JEM Setup
Toilet Funnel Stow
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ [КОВ] No.1298 for Elektron using ГЖС
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
Repairs of SM Interior Panel by installing cover panels, Day 2
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Short Dryout
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfiguration
СОЖ maintenance
Payloads Network Attached Storage (NAS) Vent Cleaning
On MCC Go Assessment of Progress 439 (DC1) Rodink БВ1 tank leak
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garment (LVCG) Water Fill
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Conference
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Initiation
iPad iOS Update
ALGOMETRIYA. Tenso- and thermoalgometry mode measurements

 