
Astronaut Frank Rubio Breaks the U.S. Record for Longest Spaceflight: Yesterday, NASA astronaut Frank Rubio broke the record for the longest single spaceflight by a U.S. astronaut, spending his 355th consecutive day on the ISS. Rubio is scheduled to land on September 27th and will ultimately spend 371 consecutive days in orbit.
Payloads:
Exploration Environmental Health System (EHS) BioMole Facility: The BioMole Minion 2.0 Sequencer Hardware was stowed. EHS BioMole Facility demonstrates technology for monitoring the microbial environment onboard a spacecraft. As part of the Crew Health Care System (CHeCS), this technology could support missions such as Gateway and Mars transit that do not have the capability to return samples to Earth for analysis. The investigation evaluates the ability of the EHS BioMole Facility to accurately analyze potable water samples on the space station.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The ELF Sample Holder S/N 003 was removed and S/N 034 was installed. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR).
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with ESPRIT: Private Higher School of Engineering and Technology, Little Ariana, Tunisia. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4: The Perching Arm was installed on to the Astrobee flyer, the JAXA Robo Programming Challenge 4 procedures were reviewed, and targets were printed. Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4 is an educational competition for students in the Asia-Pacific region. The students are tasked to create a program that demonstrates accurate control of Astrobee. The Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 4 is planned for September.
Multi-Needle Langmuir Probe (m-NLP): The m-NLP was installed onto the JEM Airlock Slide Table. The m-NLP is an instrument designed for monitoring ionospheric plasma densities, and must be deployed in the ionosphere in order to collect required data. The ISS is the perfect host for this instrument since it orbits near the peak plasma density of the ionosphere. The m-NLP gathers valuable data from the equatorial and mid-latitude ionosphere allowing the study of dynamical processes in unprecedented detail.
TELe-Luminescence Analysis System (TELLAS): The TELLAS hardware was closed out and stowed. The TELLAS is an experimental facility that uses luminescence and an imager to make observations of tissues/genes in small living animals. Such in-vivo observations facilitate the study of mechanisms related to aging in the microgravity environment. Installed in the JEM, the TELLAS facility can provide information that contributes to aging research and improves the health and longevity of people on Earth.
Systems:
Columbus Rack Transfer Preparation: This week, the crew will transfer three Columbus (COL) racks as part of preparation for the Enhanced European Exploration Exercise Device (E4D). Today, the crew prepared these racks by clearing stowage, cleaning the areas, collapsing the Crew Alternate Sleep Accommodation (CASA) bumpout, and installing preliminary hardware. Tomorrow, the crew will transfer EDR2 from its temporary stowed location at NOD2D2 to COL1A2, transfer Biolab rack from COL1A2 to COL1F3, and transfer Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) from COL1F3 to COL1D4. The E4D is a new crew exercise device that is designed for long-term exploration missions.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): Today, the crew completed a Max CEVIS session which is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. The Max CEVIS activities satisfies ISS medical requirements to measure crew heart rate, electrocardiogram, and oxygen consumption.
Completed Task List Activities:

JAXA-MEDIA-TAKE 2 [GMT 252]
JAXA-PROVISION-TAKE [GMT 252]
ASTROBEE-OBT-REV [GMT 253]
EHS-CAD-DONGLE-CHK [GMT 253]

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SPDM Unstow
VDS High Definition Video Record & Dump
Potable System Configuration for EDV fills
MT Translation WS 6 to WS 5
ECLSS Recycle Train Drain/Fill Support
MSS Powerup

