09-17-2009September 17, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 09/17/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      The crew’s wake/sleep cycle was shifted to accommodate today’s HTV berthing: Wakeup – 8:30am EDT, sleep – midnight/12:00am.   At 3:47pm EDT, JAXA’s HTV1 (H-IIB Transfer Vehicle 1) was successfully grappled by Nicole Stott, assisted by Robert Thirsk & Frank De Winne, with the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System).   Upon wakeup, FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Stott, FE-4 Thirsk & FE-5 DeWinne continued their new week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Nicole’s first, logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Nicole concluded her first ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity.   FE-3 Romanenko completed the regular monthly HMS (Health Maintenance System) training protocol, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer)’s acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The proficiency drill today focused on Airway Management.    [The HMS hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The impact of not maintaining proficiency with the HMS hardware and procedures could lead to a substantial impact to ISS operations, potential evacuation of ISS, and loss of crew life.]   CDR Padalka started preparations for Monday’s (9/21) Progress 34P undocking by –  Dismantling & removing      the LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12      onboard measurement telemetry, along with its ROM unit (read-only memory,      TA765B) for re-use, Disconnecting the US-21      Matching Unit from BITS2-12 and removing it for re-use  [the US-21      Matching Unit has “matched” (connected) the SM (Service      Module) with the Progress motion control and DPO thrusters systems, so      that they could be commanded by the SM computer system (BVS)], and Setting up the pumping      equipment (Compressor #41 with power cable & hoses), then transferring      urine from three EDV-U containers to the Rodnik BV2 tank of 34P.  [Progress undocking is scheduled on 9/21 at 3:24am EDT.  Afterwards, the Progress cargo ship will maneuver into a different orbit and spent several days conducting a plasma-observation research program.]   Afterwards, Padalka conducted another extensive session with the geophysical GFI-1 Relaksatsiya ("relaxation") experiment from six GFI-1 hardware kits, for which the CDR assembled the payload, set up the RSE1 laptop and mounted the UV (ultraviolet) Fialka camera with SPM spectrometer unit on a bracket at SM window #9.   Later the equipment was stowed again.      [Purpose of the extended data takes is to measure formations in the UV-radiation range during global electromagnetic processes in the upper atmosphere of the Earth (lightning). from spectra recorded with the UV camera, spectrometer, RSE1 laptop and camcorder.  Relaksatsiya normally deals with the study of the chemoluminescent chemical reactions and atmospheric light phenomena (emissions, i.e., molecular relaxation processes), including those that occur during high-velocity interaction between the exhaust products from space vehicles and the atmosphere at orbital altitude and during the entry of space vehicles into the Earth's upper atmosphere.]   FE-3 Romanenko configured the equipment for his fourth session with the Russian experiment DYKHANIE (MBI-18, “Respiration”) and undertook the test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop and supported by ground specialist tagup.   Roman then closed down the hardware and stowed it.     [Dykhanie-1 uses two body belts (PG-T/thoracic, PG-A/abdominal), a calibrator, resistor, mouthpiece, etc., to study fundamental physiological mechanisms of the external breathing function of crewmembers under long-duration orbital flight conditions.  During the experiment, physiological measurements are taken and recorded with a pneumotachogram, a thoracic pneumogram, an abdominal pneumogram, and pressure data in the oral cavity.  All experimentally derived plus salient environmental data along with personal data of the subject are recorded on PCMIA card for return to the ground at end of the Expedition.  Objectives include determining the dynamics of the relationship between thoracic (pectoral) and abdominal breathing function reserves and their realization potential during spontaneous breathing, the coordinated spontaneous respiratory movements in terms of thoracic and abdominal components of volumetric, time & rate parameters of spontaneous respiratory cycle, identification of the features of humoral-reflex regulation of breathing by dynamics of ventilation sensitivity of thoracic and abdominal components to chemoreceptor stimuli, etc.  Overall, the experiment is intended to provide a better understanding of the basic mechanisms of pulmonary respiration/gas exchange gravitational relations of cosmonauts.]   Afterwards, the FE-3 downloaded data files from the BU (Control Unit) of the running BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment in the SM for archiving on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked pictures of the experiment setup.   [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-16 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP), currently planted with Mizuna seeds.  Mizuna (Brassica rapa nipposinica) is a tasty variety of Japanese mustard greens, also known as California Peppergrass, eaten as a salad.]    In support of the new Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) experiment, Roman set up & initiated another observation session, using a hand-held spectrometer (without using TIUS three-stage rate sensor) from SM window #9.    [RUSALKA ops involve calibration and tests of research equipment relating to the Sun and the Earth's limb at sunset (atmosphere lighted).  Being tested are the procedure for remote determination of Methane (CH4) & Carbon Dioxide (CO2) content in the atmosphere (in the First Phase), measurement of CH4 & CO2 content in the atmosphere and reception of data on NI2 and NI4 content over the territories subjected to natural and technogenic effects, reception of sufficient data on seasonal dependencies of tropospheric parameters being studied (in the Second Phase).  Equipment used:  Rusalka monoblock, Nikon D2X(s) digital photo camera; AF VR Nikkor ED 80-400f/4.5-5.6D lens with ultraviolet filter, bracket for attachment to the window, and Rusalka-Accessories set.  Support hardware: Device TIUS DKShG/PNSK, Laptop RSK1, and Software Package loading disk.]   For another onboard radiation reading, Romanenko collected and downloaded the periodic sensor readings of the Russian “Pille-MKS” (MKS = ISS) radiation dosimetry experiment which has ten sensors placed at various locations in the RS (DC1, SM starboard & port cabin windows, ASU toilet facility, control panel, etc.).  Today’s readings were taken from all ten dosimeters.   Later, the FE-3 conducted his seventh data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.    [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]    After yesterday’s successful IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the TVIS exercise machine In the SM, FE-1 Barratt today completed final activation & checkout of the treadmill.  Specialists are reviewing the results before giving a Go for exercise.    [Mike & Roman replaced four springs in the S4 front right stabilizer where one broken spring was removed on 6/4/09.]   In the U.S. Lab, Mike continued his setup work on the new MELFI-2 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 2) rack, today finishing its reconfiguration from launch configuration to operational configuration by swapping trays between dewars.   Working on the U.S. WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment), the FE-1 changed out the urine receptacle plus hose and its filter insert with new units.   FE-4 Thirsk completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week.      [The current card (20-0055Q) lists 81 CWCs (~1,942.9 L total) for the four types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (68 CWCs with 1,535.5 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 322.6 L for flushing only due to Wautersia bacteria & 176.2 L in 4 clean bags for contingency use, 2. potable water (8 CWCs with 323.1 L, of which 194.8 L (5 bags) are currently off-limit pending ground analysis results), the remainder good for contingency use, 3. condensate water (3 CWCs with 27 L), 4. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 57.3 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]   Bob Thirsk also serviced the MDS (Mice Drawer System) with its six residents, today replacing the exhausted FEV food envelopes with new ones and placing the old FEVs in a containment bag for stowage.   Padalka did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   Gennady also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Mike Barratt equipped himself with a video camcorder for covering the subsequent HTV capture/berthing operations by his crewmates for subsequent downlink to Earth.   Prior to grappling the HTV1 at 3:47pm, Nicole, Bob & Frank worked their way through a number of preparatory steps involving –  Setting up the RWS      (Robotic Workstation) for supporting the capture (Stott, Thirsk), Verifying PCS (Portable      Computer System) commanding plus confirming PROX link data (De Winne) Configuring the Node-2      camcorder for subsequent HTV PCBM (Passive Common Berthing Mechanism)      survey (Thirsk) Performing HTV & SSRMS      preps for HTV approach monitoring (Stott, De Winne) Maneuvering the SSRMS to      “High Hover” position and readying it for capture (Stott, De      Winne), Monitoring HTV final      approach to 30m & confirming CP hold (Stott, De Winne), Capturing HTV and, if      required, maneuvering to the expected HTV capture position (Stott, De      Winne). Maneuvering the SSRMS to      pre-install position (Stott, De Winne).    Later tonight, the crew will –  Inspect the HTV PCBM for      FOD (Foreign Object/Debris), using an internal camcorder out the Node-2      nadir CBM hatch (Stott, De Winne) -- ~4:30pm, Install the CBCS (Centerline      Berthing Camera System) at the Node-2 nadir port & power it up      (Thirsk) -- ~5:40pm, Berth & install the      HTV to the Node-2 nadir port (CBM Stage 1 & Stage capture, then      ABOLTS) (Stott, De Winne) -- ~6:30pm, Ungrapple the HTV (Stott,      Thirsk) -- ~8:00pm, Grapple the EP (Exposed      Pallet) in the HTV’s flank with the SSRMS (Stott, Thirsk) –      8:45pm, Pressurize the HTV/Node-2      Vestibule (De Winne) -- ~8:45pm. Uninstall & remove the      CBCS (Thirsk) -- ~9:30pm, Power down the two SSC      laptops used for additional monitors at LAB RWS (Stott) -- ~9:40pm, Deactivate the RWS video      monitor system (Barratt) -- ~9:55pm, and Open the Node-2/HTV      hatches and start Vestibule outfitting (remove CDC/Center Disk Cover, mate      a power jumper and a MIL-STD-1553 data jumper from Node-2 to HTV) (Thirsk,      De Winne) – ~10:10pm.    The crew performed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).    Afterwards, Mike transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were East Haruj Megafans, Libya (weather was expected to be clear over this megafan complex.  Looking slightly to the right of track for the megafans, recognized by intricate overlapping dry stream channels.  Overlapping mapping frames taken along track were requested), Ometepe Island, Nicaragua (this island within Lake Nicaragua is formed from two volcanoes, Concepcion and Maderas.  Maderas volcano is considered dormant, whereas Concepcion is still active.  Looking to the right of track for the Lake and Ometepe Island.  Overlapping frames of the island were requested), Clear Lake, TX (some patchy cloud cover may have been present during this nadir overpass of the Clear Lake area.  Overlapping frames of the Clear Lake and Galveston areas [if visible] were requested), and Palmyra Atoll, central Pacific (weather was predicted to be mostly clear over this atoll.  Looking to the left of track for the atoll.  Overlapping frames of the islets and adjacent coral reefs were requested).   CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  