
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The CIR was prepared for Fuel Oxidizer Management Assembly (FOMA) Calibration. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel, and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Foams and Emulsions: Samples were swapped in the KERMIT microscope as part of Experiment 3 sessions to observe emulsions formed with various solutions. Foams (dispersions of bubbles in a liquid) and emulsions (dispersions of droplets in a liquid) appear in many food, consumer, and personal care products and are used in a variety of industries. Structure and stability of Foams and Emulsions examines the properties and performance of foams and emulsions, including using particles of various shapes and surface roughness to stabilize these materials. Microgravity enables examination of the microstructures of foams and emulsions due to the elimination of the influence of gravity-related factors such as buoyancy of particles.
GRASP: GRASP quasi free floating science sessions were performed by two crewmembers. The purpose of the GRASP investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g., sight or hearing), encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment.  More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
Interfacial Bioprocessing of Pharmaceuticals (IBP) via the Ring-Sheared Drop (RSD) (RSD-IBP): The existing equipment were replaced with new syringes and test cells that are installed onto RSD hardware in the Microgravity Sciences Glovebox (MSG) Work Volume. The RSD module is a containerless liquid system that makes it possible to study protein solutions without the effects of interactions with solid walls. RSD-IBP studies the behavior of high-concentration protein fluids and tests computer models for predicting that behavior. More accurate models could enable production of next-generation medicines for treating cancers and other diseases.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE): A crewmember prepared the work area to restrain the SOFIE Chamber Insert. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies. The hardware provides a common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. While SoFIE initially meets the requirements of five investigations, it is intended for use by any researchers who propose related solid combustion studies to NASA in the future.
TangoLab-3: Card cube swaps were performed in order to troubleshoot issues with cube QUST_NT02. Troubleshooting steps were successful and the cube and Tangolab-3 is back in a nominal configuration. Space Tango’s TangoLab-3 locker is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development (R&D) and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS. TangoLab-3 is similar to TangoLab-1 with the primary difference being an upgraded fan system which allows for a greater heat rejection capability. This upgrade enables payloads with greater power draw and lower temperature requirements to use the facility.
Systems:
Joint Station LAN (JSL) Version Update 15: The ISS JSL is the combination of the USOS networks into one integrated LAN. The JSL provides high-speed two-way communication between internal and external interfaces on the ISS utilizing routers, switches, and wireless access points (WAP). This software version transition is an annual JSL update that incorporates all the manual system changes made to the onboard configuration since JSL v14. The update is made up of a total of 37 JSL Change Requests (JCR). A few of the major changes are the switch firmware updates for security and bug fixes, macro to support port changes required for HTV-X1, and allowing HECA video to be link to RS laptop.
Crew Dragon Wakeup and Nitrox Gas Transfer: Today, ground teams performed Dragon wakeup and Nitrox gas transfer to setup for the cabin depress scenario. The Dragon depress scenario will provide a better understanding of Dragon’s emergency capabilities by collecting data of how the system performs in the microgravity environment. Today, the cabin depress scenario tested whether gas would continue to flow to the suits properly in the event of a full tank blowdown on the Crew Dragon.
European Robotic Arm (ERA) Performance Test Mission: Today, the Russian crew and ground teams finished the second day of the ERA Performance Test Mission. The main priority of the ERA Performance Test Mission is to check characteristics of ERA motion and to prepare for transfer of the heat exchanger. The mission includes the arm moving to the radiator grapple fixture, determining the automatic stop distance for each joint, and returning from the grapple to storage position (base point 2).
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collect: Today, the ISS crew collected periodic water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water. The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag which will determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) RPCM Setup
Joint Station Local Area Network (LAN) (JSL) Intermittent
Crew Dragon Awake Mode Checkout

