
Payloads:
Foams and Emulsions: Sample swaps for Day 4 Experiment 3 protocol were performed to observe foams formed with various solutions. Foams (dispersions of bubbles in a liquid) and emulsions (dispersions of droplets in a liquid) appear in many food, consumer, and personal care products and are used in a variety of industries. Structure and stability of Foams and Emulsions examines the properties and performance of foams and emulsions, including using particles of various shapes and surface roughness to stabilize these materials. Microgravity enables examination of the microstructures of foams and emulsions due to the elimination of the influence of gravity-related factors such as buoyancy of particles.
Interfacial Bioprocessing of Pharmaceuticals (IBP) via the Ring-Sheared Drop (RSD) (RSD-IBP): The existing equipment was replaced with new syringes and test cells that are installed onto RSD hardware in the Microgravity Sciences Glovebox (MSG) Work Volume. The RSD module is a containerless liquid system that makes it possible to study protein solutions without the effects of interactions with solid walls. RSD-IBP studies the behavior of high-concentration protein fluids and tests computer models for predicting that behavior. More accurate models could enable production of next-generation medicines for treating cancers and other diseases.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE): With the Fuel/Oxidizer Management Assembly (FOMA) calibration completed, the SoFIE chamber was reconnected to the CIR facility. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies. The hardware provides a common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. While SoFIE initially meets the requirements of five investigations, it is intended for use by any researchers who propose related solid combustion studies to NASA in the future.
Surface Avatar: A checkout of the Surface Avatar system was performed using a pre-defined set of actions/commands on the Surface Avatar robot. The Multi-Avatar and Robots Collaborating with Intuitive Interface (Surface Avatar) investigation evaluates how effectively multiple robots can be commanded in scalable autonomy under conditions in space. Surface Avatar also seeks to provide information on how well the robot operator responds to haptic feedback, and crucially what the challenges and sticking points are for a real orbit-to-ground setup to operate robots remotely.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): XROOTS plants in growth #3 were harvested from the VEGGIE facility. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. The video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Galley Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Swap: Today, the crew switched the Node 1 Galley Rack cooling source from the Lab MTL to the Node 3 MTL. The crew routed Galley ITCS Jumpers from Node 1 Forward Port to Node 1 Forward Deck and successfully reactivated the Galley Rack. The swap was implemented to increase the amount of cooling resources available in the Lab MTL following the Life Support Rack (LSR) and Oxygen Generation System (OGS) rack swaps.
Contingency Water Container – Iodinated (CWC-I) Degas: The CWC-I was degassed in preparation for use for Extravehicular Activity (EVA) operations. The CWC-I is a water bag which has the ability to store up to 50 pounds of iodinated water. It is used to house water suitable for EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge and can store EMU water for up to 56 months.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

RPCM S12B-A Firmware Load and Pre-Position
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Power up
Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Zero Calibration

