
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS 3D): The crew switched the DOSIS Mode Switch to Mode 1 for solar quiet period. This experiment uses active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS and provides documentation of the actual nature and distribution of the radiation fields. A concise three dimensional dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS will be developed based on this data and data from JAXA and NASA monitoring devices.
Vascular Aging: The crew repeated a Vascular Aging Measurements session that was aborted last week. Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Fluid Shifts: The crew completed the last day of Fluid Shifts operations and stowed the hardware. Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage. 
Rodent Research-17 (RR-17): The crew Restocked habitats 2 and 3 and cleaned the Access unit. RR-17 uses younger and older mice as model organisms to evaluate the physiological, cellular and molecular effects of the spaceflight environment. Some responses to spaceflight in humans and model organisms such as mice resemble accelerated aging. This investigation provides a better understanding of aging-related immune, bone, and muscle disease processes, which may lead to new therapies for use in space and on Earth. 
NanoRacks Rotational Dynamics (Adidas OS SPIN): The crew performed the inflation of the soccer ball. The investigation Adidas OS Rotation-Induced Characteristics of a Sphere (Adidas OS Spin) examines the behavior of free-flying soccer balls in microgravity. Researchers measure the spin speed, wobble, and spin axis of balls with different shapes and textures and compare the data to Earth-based experiments. Results could improve the understanding of interaction between free-flying objects and their environment.
Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Reviews and Conference: Today the crew performed a review of the procedures necessary to perform the first two of potentially five EVAs to upgrade the P6 truss power channels. This upgrade transitions the ISS energy storage systems from nickel hydrogen batteries to the newly designed lithium ion batteries. Following their procedure reviews, the crew conducted a space-to-ground conference with ground team EVA Specialists.

Completed Task List Activities:

ISS Experience Solid State Drive Change out
NanoRacks Rotational Dynamics Regulation Ball Inflation
HMS WinSCAT
EMU ECWS On-Board Training
EVA SAFER VRT
EVA Tool Configuration
Environmental Health Systems Microbial Air Sampling

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Fluid Shifts Experiment Data Collection
Vacuum System Limit Configuration
EVA Procedure Conference
Secondary Power Systems RPC Firmware Updates

Look Ahead:
Thursday, 9/12 (GMT 255) Crew Off Duty
Payloads:


HRF Urine and Blood setup (NASA)

Systems:

None

Friday, 9/13 (GMT 256)
Payloads:


ISS Experience recording Microgravity Crystals Session 4 (NASA)
Microgravity Crystals Session 4 (NASA)
HRF Blood and Urine Collections (NASA)
Actiwatch Plus Evals (NASA)
Standard Measures Cognition Test (NASA)
Cryo Chiller Sample Cartridge Install (NASA)
Rodent Research Dissection H/W Gather and setup and review and Conference (NASA)

Systems:

EVA Tool Configuration
WHC Preventative Maintenance
Crew Handover Conference with upcoming Expedition Crew

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Fluid Shifts
ESA Weekly crew conference
ISS Experience Hardware Stow
Vascular Aging Ultrasound Echo Unit Setup
Soyuz 742 Kazbek Fit Check
FGB Pressurized Adapter Vacuum Cleaning
Food Acceptability Survey
Echo Unit BIOS Boot Priority Order change
Replacement of CO2 Filter Unit ИК0501. Install No.209 (00076617R, СМ1РО_4_449_1 container 431-11 (00068712R).  Removed No.208 (00076616R) – for disposal.
DOSIS Main Box Mode Switching from Mode 2 to Mode 1 during a solar quiet period.
Vacuum Cleaning of Dust collectors ПC1, ПС2 filter cartridges in FGB
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Software upload Cable Connection
Cleaning ventilation screens on FGB interior panels 116, 316, 231, 431
Vascular Aging Resting Ultrasound Scan
Rodent Research Habitat 2 & 3 Restock
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Vascular Aging CDL Holter Arterial BP Measurement
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Terminate
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Software upload Cable Change
Food Acceptability Survey
SEPARATION. ЕДВ-Д Replacement
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ [КОВ] for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
Changeout of Dust Filter ПФ1-4 Cartridges in SM (ФГБ1ПГО_4_424_1, bag 440-21 (00074645R) or bag 441-13 (00076073R).  Discard the removed items. Reflect changes in IMS)
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Reviews
СОЖ maintenance
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops
ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filter Replacement and В1, В2 Fan Screen Cleaning in DC1. ФГБ1ПГО_4_424_1, bag 440-21 (00074645R) or bag 441-13 (00076073R). Discard the removed items. Reflect changes in IMS)
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Conference
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Termination
Vascular Aging Ultrasound Echo Unit Stow
ЦП Laptop monthly maintenance
БД-2 Exercise, Day 1
Team Task Switching Experiment Survey
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Software upload Cable Disconnection
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – OCT2 Exams
Replacement of ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filter Cartridges and Cleaning В1, B2 Fan Screens in MRM2 (ФГБ1ПГО_4_424_1, bag 440-21 (00074645R) or bag 441-13 (00076073R). Discard the removed items. Reflect changes in IMS)
Vacuum Cleaning of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in MRM2
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Team Task Switching Experiment Survey

 