
Payloads
Eklosion: The crew participated in an Eklosion experiment session by observing the flower, taking photos, and reading some of the messages included with the experiment. They also gently shook the capsule to determine the quantity of water remaining. The Eklosion investigation utilizes a vase, inspired by the VEGGIE plant growth facility, specially designed for use in the microgravity environment aboard the ISS.  Eklosion also contains within its hull small messages and smells from Earth for the psychological benefit of the crew member who conducts the investigation. In the experiment, the crew grows a Marigold flower (Tagetes patula).
European Space Agency (ESA) EPO Touching Surfaces: The crew set up touch arrays in 5 different locations in the USOS segment. These arrays will be deployed for at least 15 weeks.  Previous space research conducted during short-term flight experiments and long-term environmental monitoring on board orbiting space stations (such as MIR or the ISS) suggests that the relationship between humans and microbes is altered in the crewed habitat in space. This interdisciplinary project Touching Surfaces aims to investigate novel, laser-structured antimicrobial surfaces onboard the ISS. The realistic testing of the tailor-made nanostructured antimicrobial surface in space allows for the determination of the most suitable design for antimicrobial surfaces for terrestrial applications such as public transportation and clinical settings, as well as future human space mission and habitation design.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): The crew continued work on the JWRS by installing the Gas Trap module.  JWRS generates potable water from urine. In the past on manned spacecraft, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Kibo Robot Programming Challenge-2 final round: This event had to be deferred to a later date due to ISS network issues which prevented the uplink of the necessary files. The Kibo Robot Programming Challenge (Robo-Pro Challenge), also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard ISS. This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering, and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers. This activity is based on Japan-U.S. cooperation through the Japan-US Open platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3).
Rodent Research Demo-1: The crew performed experiment 1A, and then restocked the rodent habitat.  RR-D1 validates equipment and procedures related to the wound healing process investigation.  Normal skin function and wound healing are important for maintaining good health, but spaceflight may impair healing of wounds in astronauts.  Results from this investigation are intended to support design of a subsequent study on the effects of spaceflight on wound healing.
Turbine Ceramic Manufacturing Module (T-CMM): The crew removed the processed calibration module and installed a ceramic module into the facility.  Unfortunately, when the module was subsequently processed, a leak inside the module occurred and the print was not completed successfully. T-CMM demonstrates manufacture of single-piece turbine blade/disk combinations (blisks) in microgravity for commercial use. Manufacturing blisks in space could produce parts with lower mass and residual stress and higher strength than those made on Earth due to greatly reduced sedimentation of the solution in microgravity.
Systems
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Early this morning, robotics ground controllers (ROBO) powered up the MSS and translated it from Worksite 5 to Worksite 7. Once there, ROBO maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock and installed the ISS Experience Z-CAM to the JEM A/L slide table. Once installed, ROBO maneuvered SSRMS and SPDM clear of the JEM A/L, and the MSS was powered down.
Ultrasound Exam: Today, the crew used the ultrasound device to perform a Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) scan.  This is a routine medical requirement that utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for bilateral imaging of the internal jugular, entire subclavian-axillary axis, and lower extremity deep veins. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams.
Post Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: Today, the crew completed several activities following the successful completion of the USOS 4A IROSA Prep EVA on Sunday September 12th. The crew completed the first regeneration cycle of the EMU Metal Oxide (METOX) canisters by baking out CO2in the METOX Regenerator Oven as well as spent several hours stowing EVA tools that were used during EVA 77.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) Deactivation
Payload Rack Officer (PRO) LSG Facility Activation Commanding
Node 3 ACS Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Activation
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Powerup [ACTIVE]
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) stow [PLANNED]

