
Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-2 (ACE-T-2):  The crew performed a sample module exchange for the ACE-T2 experiment.  ACE-T-2 is performed in the Light Microscopy Module in the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR/LMM). The experiment looks at the assembly of complex structures from micron-scale colloidal particles interacting via tunable attractive interactions. The samples contain suspensions of colloidal particles that upon nearing the critical solvent temperature, give rise to critical interactions between the particles. Regulating the temperature enables control of the particle interactions, leading to the growth of complex structures. 
Atomization: The crew performed a nominal sample syringe replacement for the Atomization investigation today. The Atomization experiment is performed in the JEM. It investigates the liquid spraying process in microgravity in order to confirm the new atomization concept developed from drop tower experiments on Earth. The knowledge gained can be applied to improve various engines utilizing spray combustion.
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST): The BEST experiment run initiated on Monday was continued.  In today’s session, the crew prepared the amplified DNA and began processing in the Biomolecule Sequencer.  This BEST experiment uses the miniPCR hardware to extract deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from the samples. The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
Plant Hab-01:  The crew removed the Acoustic Blanket, removed the Growth Chamber Door, and took photos of the installed Science Carrier #2.  The Plant Habitat was then returned to its nominal state to allow the experiment to continue. Understanding how plants respond to the space environment will help crews on future missions successfully grow plants for food and oxygen generation. The Plant Habitat-1 investigation compares differences in genetics, metabolism, photosynthesis, and gravity sensing between various Arabidopsis plant lines grown in space and on Earth. This investigation is expected to provide key insights on major changes occurring in plants exposed to microgravity. 
Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM) Strut Reinforcement and Cargo Transfer: Earlier today the crew ingressed BEAM and installed diagonal knee braces on each of the four (4) Anomalous Depressurization and Stabilization System (ADSS) struts to reinforce the ADSS in the event of a contingency depressurized scenario for a fully loaded BEAM.  The crew then transferred approved hardware into the BEAM for extended storage  prior to egressing the module.
Portable Work Station (PWS)1 Replace:  Today the crew replaced the failed PWS1 hardware and setup and loaded software on the new PWS1 laptop. Columbus PWS1 failed April 2018. Nominally, there is one active PWS and one spare PWS available on-board, PWS is used by crew to command and control the nominal part of the Columbus Data Management System (DMS) and by ground to perform regular maintenance and troubleshooting activities.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Lab MCA Zero Calibration
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Camera Cal Synchronization

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Wednesday, 09/26:
Payloads

BCAT camera activity
EarthKAM lens change
FIR/LMM hardware audit
Fast Neutron Spectrometer relocate
Food acceptability
Lighting Effects
Fluidics

Systems

Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Install and Checkout
Soyuz 54S Descent OBT/Drill #2
HTV-7 ROBoT OBT #2
RPCM N21A4A_A and N21A4A_B Swap
RPCM N21A4A_C and N21A4A_D Swap

Thursday, 09/27:
Payloads

Fluidics
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold #4 Bottle Replacement
Atomization closeout

Systems

HTV Grapple and install
HTV/N2 Vestibule pressurization and outfitting part 1
EMU 3003 and 3008 water recharge

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


SOKOL leak check
Sokol Space Suit Leak Check.  Translation to Orbital Module (БО) and photography drill
New PWS1 Laptop and accessories gather for PWS1 replacement
PROBIOVIT. Insertion of Probiovit kit No.3 in Glovebox-S and turning the light on in the GB
New PWS1 Laptop installation part 1
PROBIOVIT refill №3
8K Recording of ATOMIZATION Science
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Sokol space suits drying – Initiate suit 1 and 2 drying
Atomization syringe replacement 2
PROBIOVIT. Photography of water filling of the container from СРВК
PROBIOVIT. Filling Kit No. 3 “Product” container in Glovebox-S
PROBIOVIT. Photography during filling in the Glovebox
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Setup
Columbus Video Camera Assembly 2 adjustment
ARED Platform Fold
BIOS Setup on Portable Work Station 1
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Stow
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Node 3 Aft Unstow
PROBIOVIT. Kit retrieval from Glovebox-S
PWS1 T61P Software Load Part 1 of 2
Photo/TV N3/BEAM Camcorder Setup
Wanted Poster for MSG Auxiliary Power Cable
PROBIOVIT. Setup of Probiovit kit No.4 in Glovebox-S
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Ingress
PROBIOVIT. Filling Kit No.4 Water container from [СРВК]
Station Support Computer (SSC) Relocate
Soyuz 738 stowage operations
Beam Strut Stiffen
Temperature Measurement of Insulator connected to RHX outlet hose
PROBIOVIT. Filling Kit No. 4 “Product” container in Glovebox-S
Transfer Operations – Prepack of US items to be loaded into Soyuz
PROBIOVIT. Kit retrieval from Glovebox-S, transfer and setup of Probiovit kits No.3 and No.4 in ТБУ-В No.02 at +37 deg C. Photography
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Terminate drying of Soyuz space suit 1, 2
Initiate drying the 3rd space suit and the 1st pair of gloves
СОЖ maintenance
Beam Stowage
Terminate drying the first pair of gloves and initiate drying the second pair
Terminate drying the second pair of gloves
Scheduled monthly maintenance of Central Post Laptop. Laptop Log-File Downlink via OCA.
Onboard Training (OBT) Robotics On-board Trainer (ROBoT) Setup
Portable Workstation 1 Activation
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Open
8K Recording of ACE-MODULE-CHGOUT Science
ACE Module Changout
Flushing Water Purification Column Unit (БКО) for Elektron-VM and for Condensate Water Recovery System [СРВ-К2М]
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Terminate drying the third Soyuz space suit, start drying the third pair of gloves
Water Recovery Management (WRM) Condensate Pumping Initiation
ISS Crew departure preparation
Changeout of Purification Column Assembly (БКО) for Elektron-VM [СВО]
Columbus new PWS1 restow
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Close
Terminate drying the third pair of gloves
MATRYOSHKA-R. Tritel Hardware restart and monitoring.
Soyuz space suits and gloves stowage after drying
KENTAVR fit check
MELFI # Ice Brick Insert X
BEAM Cleanup and Egress
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) MiniPCR Sample Removal and Stow
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
8K Recording of  MELF2-ICEBRICK-INS3 Science
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) MELFI Sample Retrieve
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Node 3 Aft Stow
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) Experiment 1 Part 3
8K Recording of  BEST Science
Plant Habitat Science Carrier Installation #2 Photography
ARED Platform Unfold Back to Nominal Position
MELFI 3 Dewar Maintenance
Overlay Camera Calibration

 