09-23-2009September 23, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 09/23/09  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  At wake-up, CDR Padalka terminated his 11th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  Working successfully with the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System), FE-2 Stott, FE-4 Thirsk & FE-5 De Winne released and extracted the EP (Exposed Pallet) from the ULC (Unpressurized Logistics Carrier) in the HTV’s flank (~5:18am), handed it over to the JEMRMS (JEM Robotic Manipulator System) at ~7:17am and berthed it to the JEF EFU10 (JEM Exposed Facility / Exposed Facility Unit 10) at ~9:34am EDT.     [Its two payloads, HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric and Ionospheric Detection System) & SMILES (Superconducting Submillimeter-wave Limb-emission Sounder) will be transferred from the EP to the EF and their EFU sites tomorrow.  Thrusters were inhibited during the transfer activity due to load constraints.]   After activation & checkout of the EHS C-SPE (Environmental Health System / Colorimetric Solid-Phase Extraction) payload, FE-1 Barratt conducted analysis on water samples collected from the SVO-ZV tap and the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) with the Water Quality Monitoring Spectrophotometer.  Since the Node-3 ARS (Atmosphere Revitalization) Rack was delivered without its MCA DCA (Major Constituent Analyzer / Data & Control Assembly), Barratt performed an IFM (In-Flight Maintenance), taking the MCA DCA from the old Lab ARS Rack (now in the Kibo module) and temporarily stowed it for later installation in the Node-3 ARS Rack.  Barratt also performed R&R (Removal & Replacement) of the WRS RFTA (Water Recovery System / Recycle Filter Tank Assembly), using the spare RFTA which he unstowed on 9/21 in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  With the MCA currently inactive, Mike used the hand-held CDMK (Carbon Dioxide Monitoring Kit) to take CO2 readings in the Lab at mid-module, recording time, CO2 percentage and CDM battery ticks.  For further assurance, FE-1 checked CO2 levels in the Lab also with the CSA-O2 instrument (#1046).  Frank De Winne continued his support of the ground-controlled upgrade of COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) to C12 (Cycle 12) software, working on the PWS2 (Portable Workstation 2) laptop.    [Frank modified the PWS2 BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) settings for C12 compliance then loaded the new image (file structure) into the PC.  After a reboot, the FE-5 performed a telecommand & telemetry checkout to verify functionality of the new LAPAP Mark 2 software.]   As part of the regular physical fitness check, Romanenko undertook the Russian MO-5 MedOps protocol of cardiovascular assessment during graded physical load on the VELO cycle ergometer, assisted by Padalka as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).     [The assessment uses the Gamma-1 ECG equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels.  Measurements were telemetered down via VHF to RGS (Russian Groundsite) during a comm window (5:35am).  For the graded-load exercise, the subject works the pedals after a prescribed program at load settings of 125, 150, and 175 watts for three minutes each.  Data output involves a kinetocardiogram, rheoplethysmogram, rheoencephalogram and a temporal pulsogram.]  Using Russian surface sample kits, the FE-3 swabbed surfaces in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok) at specific locations, then saved the samples in tubes, labeled with location & date, for return on Soyuz TMA-14/18S.  Surface samples were also collected by the CDR in the SM (Service Module) for the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT experiment, from the pressurized shell behind panels 211, 212, 216, 217, 218, 225, 228, 229A, 230, 250, 428 & 430.    [Samples were collected in tubes, and the sampling locations were photographed with the NIKON D2X with flash.]  Gennady conducted the periodic health check of the KhSA Cooler/Dehumidifier Assembly’s V1 fan in the Soyuz 18S spacecraft’s DM (Descent Module) by turning the V2 fan on and the V1 fan off, then checking air flow.     [On 6/25, a planned replacement of the apparently faulty fan in the Soyuz 18S DM with a new unit proved to be not necessary after Padalka configured a jumper bypass which successfully recovered functionality of the air conditioner fan.  Today’s activity was to check up on the fix.]   Roman completed the periodic data collection on the long-term BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment, copying data from its built-in control computer to a PCMCIA memory card for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.    [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-16 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP), currently planted with Mizuna seeds.  Mizuna (Brassica rapa nipposinica) is a tasty variety of Japanese mustard greens, also known as California Peppergrass, eaten as a salad.  The payload hardware includes a module (MIS/Module for the Investigation of Substrates), the MIS control unit (BU), a nitrogen purge unit (BPA) and other accessories.  During its operation, the experiment requires regular daily maintenance of the experiment involving monitoring of seedling growth, humidity measurements, moistening of the substrate if necessary, and photo/video recording.  LADA consists of a wall-mounted growth chamber that provides long-term, ready access for crewmember interaction.  It provides light and root zone control but relies on the cabin environmental control systems for humidity, gas composition, and temperature control.  Cabin air is pulled into the leaf chamber, flows over the plants and vents through the light bank to provide both plant gas exchange and light bank cooling.]  Checking up on THC IMV (Temperature & Humidity Control / Intermodule Ventilation) performance in the USOS (US Segment), Nicole Stott took airflow measurements with the electronic Velocicalc instrument from Lab Aft Port & Node-1 Starboard Aft outlet IMV diffusers, as well as from the Lab Fwd Port Inlet IMV grille.     [Node-1 cabin fan was temporarily deactivated/reactivated by the ground (with crew prime for smoke detection while it was off), and the FE-2 also opened a close-out panel in the Lab at O1-01, vacuum-cleaned the inlet grille and closed up again.]   After activating and visually inspecting the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), FE-4 Thirsk installed the SODI (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument) experiment hardware in the MSG work volume, followed by setting up the SODI’s IVIDIL (Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids) hardware.  The activities were covered by cabin video.    [IVIDIL is part of the SODI triple experiment series of SODI (IVIDIL, DSC, Colloid) for advanced research in vibration effects on diffusion in liquids, diffusion measurements in petroleum reservoirs and the study on growth and properties of advanced photonic materials within colloidal solutions, respectively.  The DSC / Colloid experiment will follow during subsequent Shuttle flights.]  FE-5 De Winne started (later terminated) another 5-hr automatic sampling run (the 32nd) with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-4 (Station Support Computer 4) laptop.    [The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  Today’s data will again to be compared with VOA and GSC (Grab Sample Container) measurements.  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.  Yesterday, the AQM suffered a temporary “crash” in the middle of the run but was subsequently restored with a reboot (power-cycle).  There is a possible loss of some scientific data.]  The FE-5 filled out his regular weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  Frank also completed the daily SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) diet intake logging, currently on Low Salt diet.      [SOLO, an ESA/German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device).  Blood samples are taken with the PCBA./   FE-1 Barratt performed the regular 30-day inspection of the AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack.     [The AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient.  It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.  AEDs are generally either held by trained personnel who will attend events or are public access units which can be found in places including corporate and government offices, shopping centers, airports, restaurants, casinos, hotels, sports stadiums, schools and universities, community centers, fitness centers, health clubs and any other location where people may congregate.]  Mike also completed the periodic status & screen check on the payload CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus), located in the ER-2 (EXPRESS Rack 2).  FE-3 Romanenko conducted the periodic transfer of U.S. condensate water from CWCs (Collapsible Water Containers, #1021, #1073) to the RS (Russian Segment) for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, filling the designated KOV EDV container.  Once filled, the EDV will be connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.]  The FE-3 did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Roman also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Nicole had another hour set aside for HTV unloading & cargo transfers, including 15 min for reporting progress to the ground.  Gennady had 1h20m on his schedule for initial prepacking of equipment to be loaded on Soyuz TMA-14/187S for return.  Both Padalka & Barratt again had an hour set aside for regular crew departure preparations, working on the standard end-of-increment cleanup preparatory to their return to Earth on Soyuz 18S.    [It is usual for crewmembers to be granted reduced workdays for making their departure preparations, as their return date approaches.]  Before sleep time, Padalka conducts his eleventh data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.     [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]   At ~11:25am EDT, Mike, Nicole, Bob & Frank joined in a PAO TV downlink in support of a CSA (Canadian Space Agency) educational event at the Community Center at Vulcan, Alberta, Canada, attended by students age 10-17.  At ~3:50pm, the crew conducted a teleconference with Expedition 22 crewmembers.  At ~5:15pm, Bob Thirsk has his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) scheduled, via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR/2h, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3) and ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5).  Later, Thirsk transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Lahore, Pakistan (ISS had a nadir pass just after midday over Pakistan’s second largest city.  However, even though the area was expected to be clear of clouds, hazy dusty conditions near the surface did not allow good views of the city until the crew was directly overhead.  Trying to map the urban area in detail, beginning at the margins and working inward), Urumqi, China (the crew had a nadir, early afternoon pass in clear weather, with their approach from the SW.  This desert agricultural region is rapidly transitioning to the focus of China’s petroleum and natural gas exploration.  The city itself is located at the southern edge of the Junggar Basin near a pass between the Erenhaberg and Bogda Ranges.  Trying for detailed mapping of this challenging target area), Paraty, Brazil (HMS Beagle Site (special - “Darwin the Adventure” Workshop, Sep 20 -26, 2009):  The crew’s mid-afternoon pass over this target was likely to be mostly cloudy.  However with a break in the clouds they may have found it just left of track), and Tenoumer Impact Crater, Mauritania (looking just left of track for this target area as ISS approached from the SW near midday, under clear skies.  This well-defined, young impact crater in Mauritania is less than 2 km wide.  Researchers suggested beginning overlapping, mapping frames on ISS approaching, flying over and departing the target area, for the best chance to acquire the impact).  CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  