
Ocular Health Ocular and Cardiac Ultrasounds:  Yui and Lindgren performed ocular and cardiac ultrasounds today as part of their Flight Day 60 Ocular Health testing.   The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Sprint Ultrasound:  Kelly performed his Flight Day 180 thigh and calf ultrasound scans today with assistance from Yui and guidance from the Sprint ground team.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of the long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
 
Journals:  Kelly performed his third of three weekly Journal activities today. Journals obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures and sustained human performance during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information to help prepare for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Cargo Transfer Status:  The crew continued working on HTV5 cargo transfer operations today, and are nearly complete with loading the vehicle.  HTV hatch closure is scheduled for Sunday, with unberth on Monday.
 
Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  In support of the ISS Upgrades EVA scheduled for late October, Yui prepared a new Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) for use and an old unit for return.  The new SAFER will be checked out in the coming weeks.  He also inspected Load Alleviating Strap on Safety Tethers, Waist Tethers and soft strap on D-Ring Extenders.  In addition, Lindgren lubricated EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) suits 3010 and 3003 O2 actuator slider bars and evaluated O2 actuator forces.  During the course of this activity, he noted a gouge to a Service and Cooling Umbilical (SCU) O-ring.  He provided imagery of the gouge which is being evaluated by engineering teams.
 
Robotics Micro-Conical Tool (RMCT) Swap:  Tonight robotics ground controllers will begin two days of activities to troubleshoot the torque anomaly previously seen with RMCT1, and to rule out the SPDM’s Tool Holster Assembly (THA) Micro-Conical Fitting (MCF) as the potential root cause.  This involves using the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to pick up RMCT1 with Arm2 and RMCT2 with Arm1.   Each RMCT will then be used to grasp the other THA MCF before being stowed in its original location.
 
Conjunction with Object # 81934 Status:  After evaluating tracking data overnight, ground teams determined that the conjunction with Object #81934 was of low concern and discontinued planning for a Pre-Determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM).
 
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted. 

TWIN – Urine Samples Collection
HRF – Insertion of Samples in MELFI
Video Camera Assembly 1 (VCA1) Setup
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring
Life on the Station Photo/Video Ops
MAGVEC – MagVector Configuration
VIRU. Battery Charge
USND2 – Hardware Activation
Ocular Health (ОН) – Ultrasound Scan Prep
СОЖ Maintenance
Ocular Health (ОН) – Ultrasound Scan
Ocular Health (ОН) – Data Export
BAR. Experiment Session
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
OASIS – Trash Transfer to HTV-5
Ocular Health (ОН) – Ultrasound Post Exam
Configuration and Setup of Two New XF305 Camcorders
HTV Cargo Transfer Operations
SPRINT – Ultrasound Scan
SPRINT – Assistance during the Experiment
HTV – Cargo Transfer Conference
EVA – O2 Actuator Lube
EVA – Inspection of Safety and Waist Tethers and D-ring Extenders for Structural Integrity
Post-Exercise Hygiene Ops
TWIN – Urine Samples Collection
OH – Cardiac Scan and Blood Pressure Measurement
HRF – Insertion of Samples in MELFI
VELIKOE NACHALO (GREAT START). Video Scenario Review
Post-Exercise Hygiene Ops
OH – Assistance during the Experiment
HMS – Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ)
TWIN – Urine Samples Collection
URAGAN. Earth Imagery
VIZIR. Experiment Session Using СКП-И Hardware
HRF – Insertion of Samples in MELFI
ARED – Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
OH – Cardiac Scan and Blood Pressure Measurement
OH – Assistance during the Experiment
Water Transfer from Progress 428 (DC1) БВ1 Water Tank into EDV and БВ1 Water Tank Shell Compression
EVA – SAFER Installation and Checkout
URISIS Hardware Setup
Search for Lost Adjustable Length Tethers
Post-Exercise Hygiene Ops
SSC2 Shell Swap
VIRU. Software Update. Tagup with specialists
VIRU. Hardware Setup for Relaksatsiya Experiment
VZAIMODEISTVIYE-2. Experiment Session
Life on the Station Photo/Video Ops
TWIN – Urine Samples Collection
VIRU. Hardware Settings Adjustment for Relaksatsiya Experiment
HRF – Insertion of Samples in MELFI
VIRU. Observation of the Indian Ocean as part of Relaksatsiya Experiment
TWIN – Blood Samples Collection Prep
JRNL – Journal Entry
VIRU. Closeout Ops and Hardware Teardown after the Relaksatsiya Experiment
TV signal Transmission Test from the SM to Orion Ground Site 21 (with quality evaluation) and VHF1 Test from SM Ground Site 21 (with quality evaluation) To = 18.36
USND2 – Hardware Deactivation
CONTENT. Experiment Session
VIRU. Filling in VIRU Registration Sheet and Downlink
Progress 428 (DC1) БВ1 Water Tank Shell Compression – Closeout Ops
Preparation of reports for Roscosmos website
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Video Footage of Greetings

 
Completed Task List Items

44S USOS unpack

 
Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted. 

Battery Capacity Test for Battery Set 3A2
RMCT Swap

 
