09-20-2012September 20, 2012
ISS On-Orbit Status 09/20/12 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. After wakeup, FE-4 Malenchenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection. CDR Sunita Williams & FE-6 Akihiko Hoshide completed their post-sleep session of the Reaction Self-Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self-Test on the ISS) protocol, the 24th for Suni & Aki.       [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.] Before breakfast, Yuri Malenchenko & Akihiko Hoshide completed a session each with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.  Involving visual urine assessment, MO-9 is one of 4 Russian crew health status checkups currently being conducted (the other three: MO-3 (Physical Fitness Evaluation), MO-7 (Calf Volume Measurement) & MO-8 (Body Mass Measurement).  Yuri then closed out the experiment.      [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).] After yesterday’s preparation of the SSC-11 (Station Support Computer 11) laptop, Sunita Williams spent several hours of her workday on updating the software of the CUCU (COTS UHF Communication Unit) for the SpaceX-1 Dragon arrival.      [After retrieval of the CD (Compact Disk) from SSC-11, now containing the uplinked software R3.3 patch, the laptop was relocated to the Lab and connected for the subsequent uploading of the CUCU update patch which was accomplished in four parts during the day. Following completion of the s/w update, CUCU was turned off and powered down.] Akihiko Hoshide meanwhile set up and started the ROBoT (Robotics On-board Trainer) for his & Suni’s subsequent Dragon Capture self-study and simulation run on the trainer which uses two T61p laptops.    [Practiced were a number of simulated capture runs, hold runs and malfunction cases, followed at ~8:25am EDT by a debrief teleconference with ground specialists.] After configuring the usual pumping equipment (Kompressor-M #41, A8A hose, adapters), Yuri started the 3-hr transfer of urine from 6 EDV-U containers (#968, #972, #989, #952, #954, #1001) to WDS (Water Distribution System) Tank 3 of ATV3 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 3).     [Urine was pumped to Tank 2 on 8/7, also from 6 EDV-Us.]  The three crewmembers joined for the 70-min refresher OBT (On Board Training) ISS simulated emergency drill.      [Starting with Yuri in the RS (Russian Segment) and Suni & Aki in the USOS (US Segment), the crew then practiced initial crew actions in response to specific emergency cases, physically translated through ISS to the appropriate response locations provided by the simulator, and practiced procedure execution and associated decision making based on cues provided by the simulator. The OBT was followed by a 15-min tagup with ground specialists at ~11:45am.] Afterwards, Malenchenko reconfigured onboard communications for nominal operations. Yuri also checked the internal pressure of the portable post-EVA O2 repress tank (BNP-NU) #3 which he had installed yesterday on the POV (EVA Support Panel) in the SM RO Work Compartment for a leak check over two days. In the Kibo lab, Hoshide took the buffer count of the JAXA MICB (MICROBE-3) experiment’s Particle Counter, then replaced the cover and attached the Counter with Velcro on the bottom of the Kobairo Rack GHF (Gradient Heating Furnace). Later, Aki worked in the ATV3 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 3), transferring, loading and re-arranging disposal cargo, followed by documentary photography.    [The situational imagery of the stowage arrangement will be examined on the ground for last-minute adjustments to ensure proper containment of all items and good CG (center-of-gravity) position for stable maneuvering during independent flight after undocking.] Yuri completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] In addition, working from the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, FE-4 took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Malenchenko also conducted the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.      [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.] The CDR supported POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center)/Huntsville on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab (loc. S3) by uninstalling & removing the three protective alignment guides from the rack.     [Also re-engaging the snubber pins and locking the safety pins to allow the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be active before begin of ground-commanded CIR operations requiring a microgravity environment.] FE-4 performed the periodic transfer of U.S. condensate water from two CWCs (Contingency Water Containers, #1086, #1087) to the RS for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, filling the designated KOV EDV container.  Once filled, the EDV is connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.      [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.] The crew worked out on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-4), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).      [CDR & FE-6 are on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval & continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Suni on Friday, for Aki on Thursday.  If any day is not completed, Suni & Aki pick up where they left off, i.e., they would be finishing out the week with the last day of exercise on her off day. Suni’s protocol for today showed T2 (int. 4min).] At ~3:10am EDT, Aki Hoshide had a 15-min CDE (Crew Discretionary Event) downlink. At ~1:10pm, Hoshide powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 1:20pm conducted a ham radio session with students at Sunset Hills Elementary, San Diego, CA. Tasks listed for FE-4 Malenchenko on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –More preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb), andA ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop. WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (32-0027J) lists 17 CWCs (274.33 L total), including 1 empty bag, for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (4 CWCs with 151.7 L);  2. Condensate water (4 CWCs with 45.7 L, plus 1 empty bag);  3. Iodinated water (7 CWCs with 67.25 L); and 4. Waste water (1 CWC with 9.68 L bag EMU waste water).  Also one leaky CWC (#1024) with 8.5 L, stowed in ATV3 for disposal.  No bags with Wautersia bacteria.  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] Conjunction Advisory:   Flight Controllers are tracking a conjunction with Object 30407 (Fengyun 1C Debris) with TCA (Time of Closest Approach) on 9/22, 2:04pm EDT, too early for probability predictions.    [This same object was tracked on 9/16.  The conjunction is before ATV3 undock operations, so there are no issues with perturbations or post-undock hazard for the ATV3.  Engineers will continue to collect data on this event and provide updates per nominal procedures.] CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Tbilisi, Georgia (Capital Cities Collection:  Tbilisi is located in the southern Caucasus region on the banks of the Kura River and is the largest city of Georgia with over 1.4 million inhabitants.  As ISS tracked SE between the Black and Caspian Seas, the crew was to look right of track and take overlapping mapping frames of the urban and surrounding areas of this capital city), Chandragup Mud Vol., PAK (Education Outreach Site:  Active mud volcanoes are found along the coast of Pakistan.  If the crew blanketed the coastline from nadir rightward of track, they acquired images of several of these relatively small mounds. Mud volcanoes are common features in regions of mountain building such as the coast of Pakistan. Here, the Arabian tectonic plate [the seafloor in this area] is moving northward and impinging on the complex Asian plate [Pakistani coast]), Wells Creek Impact, TN-USA (Terrestrial Impact Craters:  ISS had a near nadir pass over this challenging impact crater in Tennessee. The crater is 12 km in diameter and is estimated to be about 200 million years old. The Expedition 28 crew was able to capture this crater in a context view just over a year ago. Requested were overlapping context views with a longer lens), Jornada Basin, New Mexico (Long Term Ecological Research Site [LTER]:  This site is devoted to the causes and consequences of desertification. It is located in the northern Chihuahuan Desert, just NE of Las Cruces, New Mexico. ISS had a fair-weather pass over this area at late morning with the target area just right of track with approach from the NW.  Trying for a detailed mapping strip across this area), Fires in Ecuador (Dynamic Event - International Disaster Charter (IDC) Site:  Fires, believed to be the result of arson, are being fought in the provinces of Pichincha [in the north near Quito] and in both El Oro and Azuay in the south of the country.  Eight other provinces are under alert with the potential for more fires.  As ISS tracked SE and just cross over Ecuador, the crew was to look nadir and right of track to obtain imagery of these fires. There may have been localized clouds in the region, but the crew tried to shoot any smoke plumes that were visible), and Pilcomayo River Fan, ARG-PRY (Exploration Initiative Sites:  As ISS tracked SE over central South America, the crew aimed nadir and just right of track to capture imagery of this large river fan. Despite strong flow, all water and sediment from the Pilcomayo River is deposited on the fan, with none exiting to the regional river [Parana River]. This retention of all discharge on land [with none reaching the ocean] may result from a recent tectonic downwarp producing a depression in the middle of the target area). 