
67 Soyuz (67S) Undock and Landing: The 67S vehicle carrying Cosmonauts Oleg Artemyev, Denis Matveev, and Sergey Korsakov undocked from the ISS at 2:33 AM CT today and successfully landed at 5:57 AM CT in Kazakhstan. The departure of 67S returned the crew complement onboard from 10 crew back to 7 crew.
Payloads:
Autonomous Systems and Operations (AMO) EXPRESS-2.5: Experiment operations were continued, and a questionnaire was filled out with feedback on the sessions. In these sessions, simulated commanding of EXPRESS rack 7 is conducted. AMO EXPRESS 2.5 conducts tests using automation and decision support software to help crew members manage spacecraft subsystems. The ability to perform such tasks without assistance from Mission Control is vital for future space exploration such as a mission to Mars, where significant time delays will occur in communications between space and ground. Using automation and decision support software to guide astronauts through complex spacecraft subsystem management activities also reduces the time needed to perform a task. 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-Left (CBEF-L): In preparation of the JAXA Liquid Behavior experiment, the crew set up the CBEF-L to support day 2 of the 15oC checkout. Fluid behavior in the microgravity environment is different from the behavior on Earth, and the fluid behavior in the system sometimes affects its performance. The Liquid Behavior investigation provides important information for engineers or scientists to better predict how liquid behaves in the low gravity environment for the optimal design of equipment for future space activities.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): The crew performed fluid management and seed cartridge wick opening. The wick opening allows the seeds to be assessed for germination and gives them more room to grow during the 30+ day growth cycle. XROOTS is currently in the fourth and final planting. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Neural Integration System (NIS): The Confocal Space Microscope and Payload Laprop 4 (PLT4) closeout activities were performed in support of the NIS checkout. Effect of the Space Environment on the Neural Integration System and Aging of the Model Animal C. elegans (Neural Integration System) uses this nematode to examine how microgravity affects the nervous system. Previous space experiments have shown that C. elegans experiences muscle atrophy and reduced motor activity and metabolism in microgravity. Research also has shown that space can affect the nervous system, and neural networks may transmit the effects of microgravity throughout the body. Results could support development of countermeasures to protect crew members on future space missions and contribute to better health for Earth’s aging population.
Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station (NutrISS): The crew performed an ESA Nutritional Assessment (ENA) in support of the NutrISS investigation. Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. It is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): The calibration probe was removed and a preform was installed for subsequent processing into fiber. Fiber processing was observed by the crew in order to obtain direct feedback on the characteristics of the processing runs. A preform is a cylindrical rod of raw material from which the glass fiber is pulled as it’s passed through the ring-shaped furnace. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Systems:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Inspection: Today, the ISS crew completed regularly scheduled maintenance on the ARED Vibration Isolation System (VIS) Rails and Rollers, Upper Stop Cables, and X-Rotation Dashpots. The crew also provided feedback on ARED performance while the ARED Lift Bar was moving between Lower Stops and Upper Stops. This quarterly maintenance allows the ARED exercise device to keep operating nominally as well as verifying if any wear and tear exists on the hardware.
Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS) Air Sensor Installation in Lab: The crew installed the COTS Air sensors (O2 Trending Sensor, Adlink CO2 Sensor, RH Trending Sensor) in the US LAB module. The COTS air sensor are standalone sensors that will measure H2O, CO2 & O2 levels on Station.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Gather: The crew performed a tool gather provided the crew the opportunity to prepare some of the tools required to perform the activities associated with the “IROSA Prep 1B EVA”. The ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) are new arrays that will be installed on the existing arrays. Hardware for this EVA will be flown on NG-18.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS Survey of Crew Dragon TPS
LAB COTS Air Sensors Install Support
Attitude Control System (ACS) RS Undock Setup

