
SpaceX-4 Dragon Capture, Berth, and Ingress: After a nominal Dragon rendezvous with ISS, the Crew successfully captured Dragon at 5:52am CDT utilizing the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS).  The Dragon capsule was subsequently berthed to the Node 2 Nadir Port at 8:15am CDT. Once berthed, the Crew completed pressurization and outfitting of the Node 2 to Dragon vestibule.  With a few hours remaining at the end of the day, the Crew proceeded with ingress activities which were originally planned for tomorrow. Dragon hatch was opened today at 12:52pm CDT. The Crew will pick up with Dragon Cargo transfer operations tomorrow.
Circadian Rhythms:  Wiseman set-up instrumentation and configured sensors to support the Flight Day 120 36 hour continuous Circadian rhythm session.  After the measurement, de-instrument, data transfer, and stow was performed.  Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Rodent Research Transfer Review:  Wiseman and Gerst reviewed Rodent Research Animal Transfer material in preparation for transferring the animals from the Transporter to the Habitat.  This activity was delayed one day due to delayed berthing of SpaceX-4 vehicle. 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Issue: Yesterday, the crew was having issues remaining logged into the Station Support Computer (SSC) connected to T2.  After eventually connecting, the crew found the treadmill’s belt would not move, although indications from the computer appeared to show it was operating as expected.  Attempts to regain functionality from the ground using the remote troubleshooting procedure were unsuccessful.  T2 Rack and SSC power cycles were also unsuccessful.   An attempt to utilize the redundant Ethernet port on the T2 rack did not resolve the issue. This morning the crew was asked to install a debug cable to the SSC.  Having this cable installed will allow ground teams to continue troubleshooting with increased insight into the system.  Currently, T2 is not operational and teams are defining the next series of troubleshooting steps.
Ground Controlled Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Overnight, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS in the Hot Backup Configuration and used a SSRMS camera to survey the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) sealing surface.  After the crew captured Dragon, the Robotics Ground Controllers used the SSRMS to maneuver Dragon into position for the inspection of the Passive CBM and then maneuvered Dragon for installation on the Node-2 Nadir Active CBM at approximately 8:15am CDT.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.

CCP panel – cable routing and testing
Laptop RS1(2) & RSS2 reboot / r/g 1009 step 1
SM Caution and Warning Panel test (33)
USOS window shutters close
WRS – water sample analysis
RWS config to observe DRAGON rendezvous
URAGAN. Observation and photography / r/g 6683
Camera install to feed video to LAB RWS monitor 3
Cupola Minicam config to support Dragon docking
Intravehicular Activity (IVA) Clothing
DRAGON. Arriving to R-bar
S/G1 comm check with Baikonur
KONTROL. Switching of “Индикатор-МКС” science hardware measurement modes./ r/g 6684
Dragon – arriving to R-bar
ПФ1, ПФ2 dust filters replacement and В1,B2 fan grill cleaning in MRM2
Location preparation for ТБУ-В thermostat install / r/g 6687
Dragon – SSRMS capture
CBCS – camera install on Node 2 nadir hatch and power up
TOCA – data recording
IVA – exercise clothing questionnaire
CBM – capture and bolt driving
Flushing В1 connector on БВ1 Rodnik tank of ТКГ423 (DC1) / r/g 6681
CBCS – removing camera from Node 2 nadir hatch
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE – Ham radio session with Equinoccial Technological University in Kito
Deconfigure cupola from rendzvs operations
СОЖ maintenance
CCP – cable routing
Dragon – repress from Node 2 and leak check
ИП-1 sensors monitoring / СКДС п.3.9 стр. 3-5 (14)
IVA – stowing dried clothes
VISIR – experiment run. Tagup  / r/g 6685
Dragon – vestibule outfitting
Electron-VM БКО R&R/ r/g 6682
Node 2 – Removing docking bolts control unit
RR- hw transfer
Thermolab – circadian rhythms equipment ops
IVA – everyday clothing questionnaire

Completed Task List Items

ARED EVAC [Completed Sunday GMT 264]
RPOP Setup  [Complete]
Replace KTO [Complete]
FPEF cable connect [In Work]
T2 Troubleshooting [Complete]
LAB1OP4 General Luminaire Assembly (GLA) R&R  [Complete]

Ground

System commanding associated with Dragon Rendezvous and Berth [Complete]

