
Fluidics: The crew prepared the Fluidics hardware in order to perform experiment runs today.  Some difficulties were encountered securing one of the fluid tanks, but this was resolved by applying layers of tape.  Fluidics is a fluid mechanics experiment with two main objectives: perform a Slosh study to investigate fluid behavior under microgravity during satellite maneuvers, and a Wave Turbulence study to investigate the impact of capillary effect on wave turbulence without being masked by the effect of gravity. 
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS): The crew transferred images to the SSC, changed the SB-800 Flash batteries, verified that the camera alignment and focus are still intact by viewing the latest BCAT images on the SSC, and re-set the intervalometer.  The BCAT team has previously reported the aggregates observed in their sample cuvettes are significantly larger than achieved in Earth-based experiments.  BCAT-CS focuses on the study of forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles. Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces).
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The crew performed a lens change during orbit day. During this activity, the 50mm lens was replaced with an 85mm lens.  As of this report, over 27,000 students from 33 countries (including Russia) are participating in EarthKAM mission 63.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Fast Neutron Spectrometer (FNS): The crew disconnected FNS from Node 1 and moved it to US Lab.  Neutron spectrometers are used to make a wide range of measurements, including studies of a planetary body’s composition and measuring the flux of high-energy neutrons that could be harmful to humans. The Fast Neutron Spectrometer (FNS) investigation studies a new neutron measurement technique that is better suited for the mixed radiation fields found in deep space. Future operated and exploration missions benefit from clearer, more error-free measurement of the neutron flux present in an environment with multiple types of radiation.
Tropical Cyclone: The crew set up and configured the camera settings for untended image acquisition.  The target is a midnight shot of category 5 Tropical Cyclone Trami.  The Tropical Cyclone investigation is normally used to capture images of tropical cyclones and hurricanes that are rated at Category 3 or greater on the Saffir-Simpson scale. The photographic images are used to demonstrate that pseudo-spectroscopy can be used to measure the cloud altitudes to sufficient precision so that, when combined with other remote-sensing data, an accurate determination of the intensity of hurricane or cyclone can be made. 
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Capture and Berthing Preparations: Today the crew completed the second of two self-study OBT session using the Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) in preparation for HTV-7 approach and rendezvous tomorrow morning. During this training, they practiced their Free Drift timing, malfunction response, and nominal rate approaches using a simulated Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS).  Also in support of tomorrow’s berthing, ground controllers will use external ISS cameras tonight to inspect the Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) at the Node 2 Nadir location for damage and/or Foreign Object Debris (FOD).  HTV-7 is scheduled to be captured at 7:00 AM CT tomorrow.
N21A4A Remote Power Control Modules (RPCM) Swap: Today the crew swapped the following RPCMs in order to restore power to downstream loads.

In May 2018, RPCM N21A4A-D RPC 13, which feeds Node 2 Shell Heater 5A, experienced a FET Controller Hybrid (FCH) failure. In order to recover the shell heater functionality, the crew swapped RPCM N21A4A-D with N21A4A-C since RPC 13 is no longer used in the N21A4A-C location.
In January 2015, RPCM N21A4A-A RPC 6, which powers General Luminaire Assembly (GLA) NOD2SD2, indicated Open with no trip indication; later troubleshooting verified this RPCM was also suffering from the FCH defect issue. In order to recover the GLA functionality, the crew swapped RPCM N21A4A-A with N21A4A-B since RPC 6 is not used in the N21A4A-B location.

On Board Training (OBT) Soyuz 54S Nominal Descent Drill Two:  In preparation for their departure from the ISS on 4-October, the 54S Crew completed a second descent and landing drill earlier this morning.  During this training, the crew ran the descent timeline, from Soyuz activation through post-landing activities, using the Neptune-ME training panel and reviewed operating features of the gas mixture supply system.  
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Intermodular Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement:  The crew used the Velocicalc tool to take measurements of airflow at the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) IMV Overhead Aft Inlet, JPM IMV Starboard Aft Inlet, and JPM IMV Starboard Forward Outlet. By taking airflow measurements at different IMV diffusers, ground experts can verify that the IMV flow is sufficient to control carbon dioxide and humidity onboard ISS and that the IMV fans are operating in a good flow condition. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


N3 MCA Deactivation
N21A4A Bus power down/up
CBCS Checkout
S-Band String 1 Activation
Node 2 Nadir ACBM Inspection [Planned later tonight]

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Thursday, 09/27:
Payloads

Fluidics
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold #4 Bottle Replacement
Atomization closeout

Systems

HTV Grapple and install
HTV/N2 Vestibule pressurization and outfitting part 1
EMU 3003 and 3008 water recharge

Friday, 09/28:
Payloads

LT PCG Transfer

Systems

Node 2 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Removal
Node 2 Nadir to HTV Vestibule Outfitting Part 2
HTV Ingress
HTV Cargo Transfer
SSRMS Ops: Extract EP from HTV and Stow on POA

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Atmosphere Control System Nitrogen Oxygen Repress System Nitrogen Repress Part 1
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan
SM Air Sampling for CO using ИПД Samplers
On-board Training (OBT) HTV Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session
SOYUZ  54S ODF correction
Air sample collection in SM, FGB, MRM1, and MRM2 using АК-1М sampler
NODE 2 NADIR Stowage Clearance
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
UDOD. Experiment Ops with DYKNANIYE-1 and SPRUT-2 Sets.
Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Trash
Soyuz 738 Descent OBT.
Columbus Deck 1 Rack Front clean-up
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) and Vestibule Outfitting Equipment Gather
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout
ASEPTIC. Setup of Poverkhnost devices No.4, No.5 in the Globebox. Start Sterilization.
Fluidics hardware installation
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Recharging Soyuz 738 Samsung PC Battery, initiate charging
PROBIOVIT. Removal of “Probiovit” kits No.3 and No.4 from ТБУ-В No.02 (+37 deg С) and setup in ТБУ-В No.05 in stowage mode
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Nitrogen Manual Valve Open
ASEPTIC. Equipment Reconfig. Re-activate sterilization
Fast Neutron Spectrometer Relocate to LAB
Tropical Cyclone Untended Operations
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sedimentation Camera Activities
Fluidics Run 1 execution
ASEPTIC. Sterilization deactivation, Sample collection from GB surface, removal and setup in ТБУ-В No.02 at +37 deg С.
Soyuz 738 Stowage Ops
HTV Capture Review
In-Flight Maintenance Remote Power Controller Module N21A4A Swap
On-board Training (OBT) HTV Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 2
ASEPTIC. Glovebox-S Closeout Ops.
In-Flight Maintenance Remote Power Controller Module N21A4A Swap
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ (КОВ) for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
Fluidics Run 2 execution
СОЖ maintenance
Inter Module Ventilation (IMV) flow measurement for JPM Module.
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
Microscope Hardware Setup via SABL Power
FIR/LMM Hardware Audit
Fluidics Power OFF
PCS Laptop Relocate
Tropical Cyclone Hardware Closeout
EarthKAM Node 1 85MM Lens Change- Russian
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Airway Obstruction Demo
PCS Laptop Relocate
Remove and Replace Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) ЕДВ-Y
Transfer Operations – Prepack of US items to be loaded into Soyuz
Recharging Soyuz 738 Samsung PC Battery, terminate charging

 