09-27-2010September 27, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 09/27/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Underway: Week 1 of Increment 25.  At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  CDR Wheelock & FE-6 Walker started another week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 5th for both of them, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Later in the day, Shannon Walker downloaded data from the three SLEEP AWs (Actiwatches) worn by herself, Wheels & Tracy to the HRF PC2 (Human Research Facility 2) laptop, then initialized Wheels’, Scott Kelly’s & her own AW, installed fresh lithium batteries, then decabled and stowed the hardware, leaving PC2 on for downlinking.  Yurchikhin broke out and set up the equipment for another run of the Russian SSTV (Slow Scan TV) equipment of the MAI-75 experiment as part of OBR-3 (Obrazovanie-3, Education 3) ops.  This is essentially an ARISS (Amateur Radio from ISS) ham radio set-up with Kenwood TM D700 Transceiver and Kenwood VS-N1 (Visual Communicator) gear for downlinking photographic images (today a slide show of selected images) to the ground station at MAI.  Later in the day, the test radio session was terminated.  To date, there have been 7 runs with MAI-75 on board the ISS.     [The payload is named after the renowned MAI (Moscow Aviation Institute) whose reputation is based on the large number of famous aviators and rocket scientists that received their academic education here.  Among the alumni are Academicians and Corresponding Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences.  Over 100 General and Chief Designers earned their degree at MAI, with famous rocket scientists like Makeyev, Mishin, Nadiradze and Yangel.  MAI also fostered 20 Pilot-Cosmonauts, almost 100 famous test pilots, Heroes of the Soviet Union and Russia.  The amateur radio (ham) equipment aboard the ISS for downlinking SSTV imagery is a MAI product.]  Fyodor also performed the periodic inspection of the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor’s sediment trap insert (VU) in the SM (Service Module).    [The Russian SRVK-2M converts collected condensate into drinking water and dispenses the reclaimed potable water.]  The CDR completed another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.    [This was the 26th session with the GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  FE-5 conducted periodic routine maintenance in the SM’s ASU toilette facility, changing out replaceable parts with new components, such as a filter insert (F-V), the urine receptacle (MP), the pretreat container (E-K) with its hose and the DKiV pretreat & water dispenser.  Also replaced was the ASU’s air filter.  All old parts were trashed in Progress 37P, and the IMS (Inventory Management System) was updated.     [E-K contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H2SO4 (sulfuric acid), CrO3 (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple color), and H2O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed with water in the DKiV dispenser and used for toilet flushing.]  Wheelock performed the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) in Node-3, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.  Inflight TOCA analysis included a 250 mL-sample from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser)-Ambient outlet.  Doug then reported the measurements via Crew Note.  Working on the ARED advanced resistive exerciser, FE-6 Walker conducted its periodic maintenance & visual inspection, including evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition & sensor calibration, checking out the rails & rollers and greasing the Y- and Z-axes rails & rollers.    [Report from Shannon:  “No issues.  No vibrations. No scraping.”]  In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Shannon serviced the JAXA CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) payload, removing two MEU B (Measurement Experiment B) units from the 1G IU (Incubator Unit) centrifuge (which creates the 1G acceleration).  Afterwards, FE-6 worked on the T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill, shaping the right top snubber cup with file and sandpaper to make it fit into the right top arm.     [Since the right top snubber cup with its new design alignment guide (which simplifies locking/unlocking the rack) did not fit into the right top arm when installed after T2 relocation, the old design alignment guide was used temporarily.  Today’s rework of the new snubber cup worked fine, and the T2 now has four matching snubbing (limiting) devices.]  Later, Shannon joined Doug Wheelock in reviewing detailed procedures for a weeklong series of WRS WPA (Water Recovery System / Water Processing Assembly) and T2 treadmill maintenance activities, followed by a teleconference (~1:35pm EDT) with ground specialists to discuss IFM (Inflight Maintenance) requirements.    [In order to provide an alternate source of potable water, a dividing “Tee” hose will be installed in the WRS-1 rack, making it necessary to rotate the T2 treadmill rack out of the way.  This opportunity will be used to perform some maintenance on the T2 rack in addition to the fitting of the snubber cup.]   Shannon began preparations for the WPA/T2 IFMs by unstowing and securing (against ESD/electrostatic discharge) the new PAU (Power Avionics Unit) for the T2 which will replace the old PAU, as well as retrieving components required for the WPA T-hose installation (i.e., sample port adapter, manual shutoff valve, water delivery supply hose, pivot fitting and T-hose).  Also in preparation for the IFMs, Wheels spent time on degassing a CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodine) bag required for the WPA T-hose installation.    [Removing bubbles from the bag can be done by manual centrifugation, i.e., through slow rotation (~15 RPM) of the crewmember.  It is not easy, and small bubbles usually remain.  Excess free gas can cause plumbing problems.]  After setting up the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) for real-time ground monitoring, Wheelock conducted the periodic inspection of the DM (Desiccant Module) of the CWSA (Condensate Water Separator Assembly) to check on its drying ability.  Next, Doug worked on the VIS (Vessel ID System), replacing the NORAIS receiver (after ~3 months of operation) with the LUXAIS receiver.     [ESA’s ship tracking system is on an experimental run alongside the Norwegian AISSat-1 satellite with its own AIS (Automatic Identification System), the short range coastal traffic system used by ship and vessel traffic services around the world, launched last July (7/12).  NORAIS (Norwegian AIS) is an improvement and advancement of AIS.  The alternate LUXAIS receiver was developed in Luxembourg by LuxSpace and EmTronix.  The primary goals of the ISS-based VIS NORAIS/LUXAIS experiment are to receive and decode AIS messages globally, as well as to aid in the development of an operational system.  The system is financed under the ESA GSTP (General Support Technology).]  Also in COL, Shannon Walker continued her support of the ESA SODI (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument) COLLOID experiment by removing the COLLOID flash disk, with experiment run completed, and replacing it with a new one for the next run.   For the latest INTEGRATED IMMUNE Health Survey, CDR Wheelock & FE-6 Walker completed their survey forms and emailed the file to the experiment PI (Principal Investigator).  Later, Doug undertook the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on airway issues.  [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]   Fyodor Yurchikhin did the daily IMS maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  FE-5 also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  For the upcoming installation of ATV PCE (Automated Transfer Vehicle/Proximity Communications Equipment; Russian: MBRL) in the RS (Russian Segment), Fyodor unloaded a new space-to-space radio “monoblock” (PCE Z0000) from Progress 39P and gathered other necessary MBRL components.    [FSH3/Spectrum Analyzer, FSH-Z2/Bridge, cables, calibration adapter), BUAP/Antenna Switching Box and ATV PU/Control Panel.]  Yurchikhin also completed the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PrK–Progress, DC1–Progress, PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment) – RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]  Servicing the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge, Doug Wheelock removed the desiccants intended to prevent internal condensation moisture.    [MERLIN is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.]  The CDR also conducted the periodic evacuation of the ARED advanced resistive exerciser’s cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after the last T2 session of the day but is now regularly being done once a week after the last T2 session.]  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  