
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST): The crew swabbed the designated surfaces in the JEM to collect samples.  This BEST experiment uses the miniPCR hardware to extract deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from the samples. The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): Today the crew set up the EarthKAM experiment in Node 1 and initiate the imaging session.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world. 
Atomization: The crew replaced the sample syringe for the Atomization investigation today. The Atomization experiment investigates the disintegration processes of a low-speed water jet for various jet issue conditions in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to validate the new atomization concept by observing the process using a high-speed camera. The knowledge gained can be applied to improve various engines utilizing spray combustion. 
Mobile Procedure Viewer (MobiPV) settings update: Today the crew updated the MobiPV settings to allow access to the onboard IPV server and camera connection.  MobiPV is intended to allow users to view procedures hands-free and aims to improve the efficiency of activity execution by giving crewmembers a wireless set of wearable, portable devices that utilize voice navigation and a direct audio/video link to ground experts. A smartphone is the primary device to interface with procedures. Images provided in procedure steps can be displayed on a Google Glass display.
Active Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter (ATED): Today the crew was scheduled to remove the SD card from Active Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter and insert a new card into the ATED hardware.  However, the crew reported that although they were successfully able to remove the SD card, the card reader is broken.  This is likely due to the protrusion of the card and its location in a crew translation pathway.  The ATED hardware was developed to replace the Crew Passive Dosimeters (CPDs) which measure crew radiation exposure.  They are designed to provide a hands-free, autonomous data transfer architecture from the device to the ground.
On Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Descent Drill:  In preparation for their departure from the ISS on 4-October, the 54S Crew completed a nominal descent and landing drill earlier this morning.  During this training, the crew was inside their Soyuz spacecraft while reviewing and practicing undock and landing procedures.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew inspected Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs), Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs) and Pre-Breathe Masks for damage today.  They also ensured each item was in a useable configuration and fully functional. Considered routine maintenance, this inspection is scheduled every 45 days.
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Water Sample: The Water Recovery System (WRS) reclaims wastewater from both the crew’s urine and humidity condensate from USOS ISS modules. This water, once processed, is used to feed the OGS system and needs to be maintained within certain parameters to ensure optimum system performance; the water samples taken from the OGS Recirculation Loop today will be returned to the ground on a future flight for microbial growth analysis and to ensure these parameters are within limits on-orbit.
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Terminate and Repress: This morning the crew returned the O2 System to a nominal configuration following a successful repressurization of both the low-pressure and high-pressure O2systems. After preparing the removed O2 Recharge Tank for return to the ground, the crew installed a new N2 Recharge Tank and configured the NORS system for subsequent ground commanding to repress the nitrogen system.
Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM) Anomalous Depressurization and Stabilization System (ADSS) Brace Preparation: The ISS Program has agreed to extend the operational life of BEAM from its original 2-year life until the end of ISS. To ensure that BEAM can safely maintain its structure in the event of a contingency depressurization scenario, the ADSS struts require additional stiffening to meet the required safety margin. By scavenging tubing from old athletic Knee Braces today, the crew were able to build reinforcing stiffeners in conjunction with items from a Hose Clamp Kit; installation is scheduled during tomorrow’s BEAM ingress activities.
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Virtual Reality (VR) Trainer Troubleshooting: During use of the new VR Trainer hardware brought to ISS earlier this year, the crew had issues connecting to an Oculus VR headset and had to use the spare unit. Today the crew did troubleshooting on the unit and gathered data for analysis by ground specialists. Once they determine which component in the system has failed, additional hardware will be manifested on resupply vehicles later this year to restore the system and provide redundant VR trainers.
Completed Task List Activities:

‘First Man’ Downlink Message [Completed GMT 265]
WHC KTO REPLACE [Completed GMT 265]

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


NORS O2 Repress
UPA PCPA Pumpdown
HTV PROX GPS-A and B Kalman Filter Reset

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Tuesday, 09/25:
Payloads


BEST Experiment 1 (continued)
Atomization syringe replacement 2
ACE Module change-out
Plant Habitat Science Carrier Installation #2 Photography

Systems

BEAM ingress, strut stiffen, BEAM stowage, BEAM egress
Columbus PWS Swap 

Wednesday, 09/26:
Payloads

BCAT camera activity
FIR/LMM hardware audit
Fast Neutron Spectrometer relocate
Food acceptability
Lighting Effects

Systems

Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Install and Vestibule Outfitting
Soyuz 54S Descent OBT/Drill #2
HTV-7 ROBoT OBT #2

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


MORZE. SPRUT-2 Examination
MORZE. Psychophysiological Evaluation: Tsentrovka, SENSOR Tests
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System O2 Repress Configuration
ASEPTIC. Glovebox-S hardware prep.  Placing the pump and Poverkhnost Units # 2 & 3 and Vozdukh unit#3 inside Air Sampling Configuration Setup.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection
Zero-Gravity Stowage Rack (ZSR) Fastener Re-Torque
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Atomization syringe replacement 2
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) Hardware Gather
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) MWA Preparation
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Test Closure of Atmosphere Purification System Emergency Vacuum Valves [АВК СОА] Taken from Spares
MORZE. Psychophysiological Evaluation: Cattell Test
Glacier Desiccant Swap
ASEPTIC. Repositioning Equipment in the Box
Rodent Research Inventory Audit
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: Strelau Test
MobiPV Troubleshooting Preparation
EarthKAM Node 1 Prep
BEAM Strut prepare.
ASEPTIC. Box Sterilization Deactivation
MORZE. Closeout Ops
ASEPTIC. Samples collection after sterilization and air sampling (start)
LBNP exercise (PRELIMINARY)
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) MELFI Sample Retrieve
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) Experiment 1
Station Support Computer (SSC) Relocate
Transfer Operations – Prepack of US items to be loaded into Soyuz
Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System(NORS) Oxygen Transfer Termination
IMS Delta file prep
СОЖ maintenance
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) MELFI Sample Retrieve and Insert
MobiPV Settings Update
ASEPTIC. ТБУ-В No.2 installation and activation at + 37 deg С setting
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Water Sample
Soyuz descent training
Soyuz 738 Descent Drill, Return Equipment List and Stowage Consultation
ASEPTIC. Preparation and Initiation of the second Air Sample Collection – “Vozdukh” #2
EarthKAM Node 1 Setup and Activation-Russian
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
DOSIS Main Box Mode Switching from Mode 2 to Mode 1 during a solar quiet period.
Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Gather
Prepare the MSRR-1 (LAB1O3) Rack to be Rotated Down
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-Cohesive Sedimentation SB-800 Flash Battery Changeout
mobiPV Stowage
Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Nitrogen Transfer Initiation
Active Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter Card Changeout
Material Science Research Rack (MSRR) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Jumper Wrap
Charge Soyuz 738 Samsung PC after training, Initiate
SUBSA Sample Audit
ISS Crew departure preparation time
Checking БД-2 treadmill carriage position
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill
MSRR-1 (LAB1O3) Umbilical Mate
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 Acoustic Measurement Follow up
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 Acoustic Monitor Data Transfer
EVA-VR-TRAINER-TS
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) Experiment 1 Sample Stop
ASEPTIC. Glovebox Power Off, air-sampling deconfig. Sample Retrieval from the box and set up for incubation in ТБУ-В # 2 at +37 deg C.
Crew Handover Conference
Charge Soyuz 738 Samsung PC after training – terminate

 