
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): After retrieving the RaDI-N hardware from the Russian crewmembers, a USOS crewmember deployed eight Space Bubble Detectors around the ISS for the Radi-N experiment. The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) RaDI-N investigation will be conducted by measuring neutron radiation levels while onboard the ISS. RaDI-N uses bubble detectors as neutron monitors which have been designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
At Home in Space Questionnaire and Photo:  The crew completed an At Home in Space questionnaire and took photos to document ISS culture. This Canadian Space Agency experiment assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the spacecraft by creating a home in space. At Home in Space uses a questionnaire to investigate individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth. 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Camera Robot: The Crew setup and activated the JEM Camera Robot before assisting ground teams with the 4th flight checkout activity. This device is a free-flying camera robot that provides real time video downlink and photographs. It is expected to reduce the crew time requirements to support video recording of activities, especially at the blind spot of existing JEM internal cameras. 
Veggie-01 Installation: The crew assembled the veggie hardware before installing it into the EXPRESS Rack, and conducting checkout activities. The Vegetable Production System (Veggie) is a deployable plant growth unit capable of producing salad-type crops to provide the crew with a palatable, nutritious, and safe source of fresh food and a tool to support relaxation and recreation. The Veggie facility provides lighting and nutrient delivery, but utilizes the cabin environment for temperature control and as a source of carbon dioxide to promote growth.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Repository): A 51S crewmember completed the Flight Day (FD) 60 urine sample collection that began yesterday in support of the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples are obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Marrow:  Today a 51S crewmember conducted breath and ambient air sample collections for the Marrow investigation, which looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow. 
Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) preparations:  Today the crew reviewed EVA procedures, conducted a conference with EVA specialists on the ground to review procedures, prepared the Contingency Water Container (CWC) and configured EVA tools in preparation for the upcoming trio of EVAs in October.  The goals of the EVAs include Remove and Replace (R&R) of a Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE), lubrication of the LEEs, and R&R of two external cameras. 
ISS Reboost – Today ground teams commanded an ISS reboost using the Aft Progress (67P) thrusters. This reboost set up the proper conditions for a 2-Orbit rendezvous profile for the 68 Progress arrival on 10/12/17. This maneuver was the first of three burns to set up the proper conditions for the 51S landing (12/14/17) and the 53S launch and docking (12/17/17). The second burn is expected to occur on 11/02/17 and the third is expected to occur on 11/22/17. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Collection – Subject
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Cartridge (start
Handover of Increment 53 Crew
TIMER. Experiment setup and initiation of video recording
ALGOMETRIYA. Pressure and Thermal Algometry preparation and measurement session. Tagup with specialists as necessary
MOTOCARD. Photography of Diasled S/N 03 holster and БП-015 unit
MOTOKARD. Execution experiment
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygeine Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace
Monitoring closure of shutters on SM windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14 (Note 8)
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Social Media Event
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – ESA Nutritional Assessment
MOTOCARD. Photography of the Experiment Ops
At Home In Space Culture Photo
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Power Up
At Home In Space Questionnaire
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 5
VEGGIE-01 Hardware On-Board Training
VEGGIE-01 Installation
TIMER. Experiment Ops Video Termination and Cleanup
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Subject
PAO hardware setup. Audi/Video check with Glavny (Ku + S-band)
TV conference with Channel One correspondent (Ku + S-band
TV conference with Participants of the International Youth Forum “Nations Dialogue” in Bulgaria (Ku + S-band)
ALGOMETRIYA. Strain Measurements Mode
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Stow
USOS Window Shutter Close
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ (КОВ) for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Conference
СОЖ maintenance
Extra Vehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Compatible Water Container Iodine (CWC-I) Degas
XF305 Camcorder Setup
T61p USB Camera Setup for JEM Camera Robot Checkout
JEM Camera Robot Activation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
JEM Camera Robot Flight Checkout Part 4 Support
MATRYOSHKA-R. Prep and Initialization of Bubble-Dosimeter Detectors
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons Hardware Handover
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeter detectors to USOS
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter initialization and deployment for exposure
IMS Update
JEM Camera Robot Deactivation
T61p USB Camera Closeout
EarthKAM. Node2 Lens Configuration
Equipment Lock (E-LK) Preparation
iPad Air 2 Install Part 1
Regeneration Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Absorption Cartridge (end)
ALGOMETRIYA. Conducting measurements in tenso- and thermo-algometry mode. Closeout Ops

Completed Task List Activities

Cupola Window Questions
ISS HAM Cable Locate and Inspect
COL1O3_AFT Hardware Relocate
KTO replace

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Reboost

