
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Removal: FE-5 removed the NanoRack deployer from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table, following the successful deployments of 8 DoveSat satellites last week.  The next use of the JEMAL will be for Robotics External Leak Locator (RELL), which aims to demonstrate that commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) products can be adapted for effective spacecraft external leak location. In the near future, such instruments may be further developed not only to find leaks but also verify repairs have effectively fixed them.
Plant Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) Regulation Harvest: FE-6 performed the second harvest of the Plant RNA Regulation experiment by removing the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Seed Cassettes from EMCS Rotors A and B stowing them in an EMCS Cold Stowage Pouch.  The removed cassettes were then stowed in MELFI.  Compared to plants grown on the ground, plants grown in space experience broad changes in gene expression, which affects how they grow and develop.  The Plant RNA Regulation investigation studies the first steps of gene expression involved in development of roots and shoots. Scientists expect to find new molecules that play a role in how plants adapt and respond to the microgravity environment of space, which provides new insight into growing plants for food and oxygen supplies on long-duration missions.
MultiOmics Collection: FE-5 performed sampling in support of the JAXA MultiOmics experiment.  Various samples are collected and stowed in MELFI four times throughout the crew’s on-orbit duration in addition to a questionnaire and ingestion of fructooligosaccharide (FOS).  The objective of MultiOmics is to understand the gut ecosystem of astronauts in the space environment, especially focusing on the immune dysfunction, and to evaluate the impact of fructooligosaccharide (FOS). 
Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Return to Operations:  Today, the crew installed a vacuum hose to a component of the MCA, allowing the component to be pumped down to vacuum. This is required to return the Lab MCA to an operational state.  Last week, the crew attempted unsuccessfully to install the vacuum hose from an adjacent rack to the Rack Interface Panel (RIP) located on the rack containing the MCA. There were interference issues on the adjacent rack which prevented installation of the hose. An alternative rack location was identified, and the crew successfully installed the vacuum hose from this new location to the rack containing the MCA. The MCA has been pumped down to vacuum, and the crew reconfigured the MCA for nominal operations. A calibration of the MCA will be scheduled at a later time. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer Removal from the MPEP
Columbus Video Camera Assembly 1 Adjustment
Plant RNA Regulation/European Modular Cultivation System Experiment Container Removal Rotor A
RELAKSATSIYA. Charging battery for Relaksatstiya experiment
Plant RNA Regulation/European Modular Cultivation System Rotor A Sample Processing
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Plant RNA Regulation/European Modular Cultivation System MELFI Sample Insertion
Plant RNA Regulation/European Modular Cultivation System Experiment Container Removal Rotor B
Plant RNA Regulation/European Modular Cultivation System Rotor B Sample Processing
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Retraction from JPM Side
Plant RNA Regulation/European Modular Cultivation System MELFI Sample Insertion
Plant RNA Regulation/European Modular Cultivation System Reference Experiment Container Installation
ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filter Replacement and В1, В2 Fan Screen Cleaning in DC1.
Recycle Tank Drain
СКПФ1, СКПФ2 Dust Filter Replacement and MRM1 Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger (ГЖТ) Cleaning.
Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Jumper Install
Meteor Install On Board Training
WSTA Fill
Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Jumper Install
De-Mating of MagVector Umbilicals from COL1F2 UIP
European Modular Cultivation System Gas Valve Close
Opening of Lab MCA Hand Valve 01
HRF2 Supply Kit Resupply
Pressurizing Elektron-VM Liquid Unit
Mating of MagVector Umbilicals from COL1F2 UIP
Multi Omics Sample Operations
Multi Omics Sample MELFI Insertion
Stow equipment per Stowage Note.
RELAKSATSIYA Hardware Setup.
Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) Front Cover Troubleshooting
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Closure of Lab MCA Hand Valve 01
RELAKSATSIYA. Parameter Settings Adjustment.
Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Jumper Teardown
RELAKSATSIYA. Observation
RELAKSATSIYA. Closeout Ops and Hardware Removal

Completed Task List Items

None 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed otherwise noted.

Battery Capacity Testing (Channel 2B-1)
Lab MCA Pumpdown

