
Payloads
Combustion Integrated Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (CIR/ACME)/BRE-2: The crew exchanged a GC (gas chromatograph) argon bottle and opened the valve on the 40% O2/60% N2 bottle on manifold 2.  This was performed in support of the continuing BRE part 2 (Burning Rate Emulator) investigation, which is one of the ACME suite of five gas combustion experiments.  The BRE experiment runs are focused on spacecraft fire prevention. More specifically, BRE’s objective is to improve our fundamental understanding of materials flammability and to assess the relevance of existing flammability test methods for low and partial-gravity environments.
EarthKAM/Node 2 setup: EarthKAM (Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools): The crew performed the setup and activation of the EarthKam hardware in Node 2. As of this report, 223 schools representing 19,822 students and 33 countries have signed up to request images.  This includes one Russian school with 150 students participating.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Systems
Cygnus On-board Training: Today, the crewmembers scheduled to capture Northrop Grumman (NG)-14 performed a Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. NG-14 (Cygnus) is currently scheduled to launch on October 1st and be berthed to ISS on October 4th.
Northrop Grumman (NG)-14 Arrival Preparations: In preparation for Cygnus arrival, currently planned for October 4th, the crew installed the Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) in Node 1 Nadir hatch window and performed a video system checkout with the ground. The CBCS supports Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) mating alignment operations necessary to berth the Cygnus NG-14 capsule (S.S. Kalpana Chawla) to Node 1.
ISS Leak Isolation Operations: The crew ingressed the USOS segment today after spending the weekend in the Russian Segment to allow ground teams to monitor module pressures. The crew closed several module hatches on GMT 269 as part of a leak isolation test.  Following USOS ingress, the crew reactivated the Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) for operations and restowed items that were transferred to the Russian segment during the USOS isolation period.
Completed Task List Activities:

Acoustic Monitor Static Deploy for PMD operations
USOS Isolation Restow
Extravehicular (EVA) Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Hardware Gather
Weekly Cleaning
Starboard Crew Quarters (CQ) Clear
Station Support Computer (SSC) 8 Swap
Columbus K-Bar Gather
PMM1O2 Cleanup Part 3

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

N1 CBCS Video Support
ATS PPL Update
OGA Activation
Shell Heater Cmding for EPS Max Power Test
Equinox Max Power Testing
USOS Module Re-Ingress Ground Support
Lab MCA Zero Calibration

