
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR)/ Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME):  In support of the ongoing s-Flame experiment, the crew replaced the fuel and oxidizer manifold bottles as well as the mass flow controller.  The purpose of s-Flame is to advance the ability to predict the structure and dynamics, including extinction and instabilities, of both soot-free and sooty flames. Results may contribute to the development of lean-burn engines for improved efficiency and reduced pollutant emissions here on Earth.  S-Flame is one of five experiments hosted by CIR/ACME, which is designed to study gaseous flames.
GLACIER transfer:  The Rad Dorm samples, which were previously placed in MELFI due to GLACIER2 icing issues, were successfully transferred to GLACIER-3. The GLACIER units are used for this experiment since they are able to maintain the ultra-cold -160 deg C temps required by Rad Dorm.  The  investigation evaluates the biological impact of space radiation on the ISS to human and mouse cells. DNA damage and various cell functions are analyzed to determine how different cells respond to long-duration exposure to space radiation.
HERMES Vacuum Valve Open: In support of the ongoing investigation, the crew opened the manual valve for the HEMES vacuum system.  Hermes is an experimental microgravity facility that enables science experiments, microgravity exposure testing, testing of engineering components, testing of CubeSats, concept trials, and any payloads that fit within the Hermes design and operations constraints. It is open to any investigation that benefits from microgravity exposure. 
ISS HAM:  The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with the Children’s Inn at the NIH (National Institutes of Health), Bethesda, MD.  The Children’s Inn is an independent nonprofit that provides “a place like home” to families of children with rare or critical illnesses.  Some of the questions included how body tissues are affected by space, if hair grows faster in space, and if there are aliens in space.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units. 
Ring Shear Drop:  Following the completion of the calibration sample run, the crew set up the first science sample run for the experiment.  Once initiated, this sample will be processed for 120 hrs.  The Ring Sheared Drop investigation uses microgravity to examine the formation and flow of amyloids in the absence of surface tension and other complications created by the solid walls of a container. Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues, amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials.
HRF Gas Delivery System (GDS) tank photo: The crew took photos of the pressure gauges on the HRF (Human Resources Facility) GDS Gas Cylinders which support the Portable PFS (Pulmonary Function System). This is a nominal, periodic requirement to monitor the pressures in the system.  The Portable PFS is an autonomous multi-user facility supporting a broad range of human physiological research experiments under the condition of weightlessness in the areas of respiratory, cardiovascular and metabolic physiology. Portable PFS also represents an evolution to the existing Pulmonary Function System (PFS) onboard the ISS.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM):  The crew gathered the appropriate hardware and set it up in Node 1 to begin the imaging session.  As of this report, a total of 204 schools representing 18,933 students from 26 countries have signed up to request images (4,005 image requests submitted so far).  A total of 4 Russian schools representing 108 students are signed up to participate in this mission. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world. 
SPHERES Reswarm Test Run: The crew participated in a crew conference and performed the SPHERES reswarm science session.  Objectives for this session include the evaluation of the robustness of the algorithms in 6 Degree of Freedom dynamics. This was the final science session for the SPHERES hardware – the next generation satellite system known as Astrobee will take over the free-flier role.  Swarms of small spacecraft are expected to become feasible in the near future, creating a new range of capabilities for Earth and space observation missions. The ReSwarm control algorithms are applicable to swarms of small to femto-spacecraft. They scale easily with the formation size and remain applicable to multiple mission scenarios.
The ISS Experience:  The crew set up appropriate hardware to capture a Cupola setup for social recording of a crewmember reflecting on their time in space, returning to Earth, etc.  The ISS Experience was also used to capture the SPHERES reswarm science session.  The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Maintenance: The crew cleaned exhaust fan outlets behind the PWD. This preventative maintenance is required every 18 months.
 Completed Task List Activities:

EVA NASA Zero-Gravity Lever familiarization
NanoRacks Rotational Dynamics payload ops
SPHERES battery charging
Repair vestibule closeout
WHC KTO replace
CMS exercise equipment gather
COL hardware shuffle
COL kit/bag location check
ESA EPO Body In Space
ESA PAO ESTEC, Maker Faire, Playmobil, Politecnico Milano
GRIP OBT
Vestibule closeout repair

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Payloads ground support

Look Ahead:
Tuesday, 9/24 (GMT 267)
Payloads:


FIR/LMM/ACE-M2R
Actiwatch plus
ELF cartridge ops
Microgravity Crystals
MVP-cell-02
RR-17 fixative swap
Standard Measures
Time Perception

Systems:

HTV-8 launch/dock
EMUs 3004, 3008 pre-EVA loop scrub

Wednesday, 9/25 (GMT 268)
Payloads:


Actiwatch plus
EarthKAM 85mm lens change
Food Acceptability
Functional Immune
ISS Experience
JEMAL ops
MatISS
Slime in space prep
Team Task Switching

Systems:

61S launch/dock
JEMEF HD TV control equipment R&R
ISS safety briefing

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


On-Board Training for the GRIP Experiment
R PAO event report preparation
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
ISS Experience JEM Setup
KORREKTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food Intake (medicine)
Combustion Integrated Rack Front End Cap Open
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Filter Remove and Replace (R&R) with Fan Filter Cleaning
EML Gas Valves Opening
Hermes Vacuum Valve Open
ИП-1 sensors positioning check
ACME Controller Replace 1
On MCC Go Urine transfer into Progress #442 (DC1) Rodnik БВ1 Tank
KENTAVR fit check
Combustion Integrated Rack Front End Cap Close
SOYUZ 742 SOKOL suit leak check
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold #2 Bottle Replacement
Rodent Research Fixative Swap
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold #4 Bottle Replacement
EarthKAM Station Support Computer Relocate
SOKOL suit drying; SS1 and SS2 setup for drying
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
ISS Experience Recording Preparation
PL Cntl Box (S/N 002) Cable Replacement
ОДНТ training session (PRELIMINARY).
ОДНТ training session (PRELIMINARY) – operator
Max CEVIS Portable PFS Partial Set Up
Standard Measures Cognition Troubleshooting
SPHERES Crew Conference
SPHERES Test Session Setup
Ring-Sheared Drop Syringe Installation 1st time
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Power Up
EML Sample Chamber Valve opening
Water Storage System Contingency Water Container Iodinated Pumping Initiate
Ring-Sheared Drop MELFI Sample Retrieve
HRF GDS Tank  Photography
Glacier MELFI Transfer
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Subject
SPHERES Reswarm Run
KORREKTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food Intake (medicine)
Drying out of SS 1 and 2 – termination
Start drying the first pair of gloves
Stowage Items Move
MATRYOSHKA-R. Tritel Hardware Monitoring
HRF GDS Tank  Photography
SEPARATSIA. [СРВ-У-РС] System Activation. Distillation cycles activation
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Pre-training charge of Soyuz 742 Samsung Tablet – start
Water Storage System Contingency Water Container Iodinated Pumping Terminate
Glove pair #1 drying end, glove pair #2 drying setup
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
EarthKAM Node 1 Setup and Activation-Russian
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
Glove pair #2 drying termination
Stowage of suits and gloves post drying
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Stow
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Swap
IMS Update
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Ring-Sheared Drop Syringe and Test Cell Removal and Install
Weekly ISS RS Video HW functional check
Checking БД-2 treadmill carriage position and photography.
SPHERES Test Session Shutdown
KORREKTSIYA. Preparation for experiment
ISS Experience Social Moments Recording
ISS Crew Departure Preparation
Fluid Shifts Fundoscope Baseline Imaging Setup
ISS Experience Hardware Relocate
Fluid Shifts Fundoscope Baseline Imaging Preparation
Refabricator Cartridge Swap
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
Fluid Shifts Fundoscope Baseline Imaging Exam Operator
Fluid Shifts Fundoscope Baseline Imaging Exam Subject
SEPARATSIA. [СРВ-У-РС] System Deactivation. Log-file Downlink
Fluid Shifts Fundoscope Baseline Imaging Stow
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Personal Medication Stow

 