
Soyuz Seat Liner Swaps: As a result of Christina Koch’s and Andrew Morgan’s extension onboard ISS, they will depart ISS on different Soyuz vehicles than those on which they arrived. To facilitate this change, the seat liners were swapped between Soyuz vehicles today. Hazzaa Al Mansoori will return on 58S next Thursday, Christina Koch will return on 59S in February 2020, and Andrew Morgan will return on 61S in April 2020. 
Clean Bench (CB) removal: As a continuation of the CB hardware reconfiguration, the crew removed the CB from Saibo Rack.  This is part 2 of the activity.  Saibo Experiment Rack (Saibo) which means “living cell,” includes a Clean Bench glovebox with microscope that isolates the organisms being studied, and CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) that includes incubator and centrifuges. During today’s CB removal, there was a water leak from one of the Quick Disconnects (QDs). Water flow was removed from the SAIBO rack and following troubleshooting by the ground, the crew was able to close the leaky QD valve and restore water to the Saibo rack.
Fluidics: The crew set up the appropriate hardware and initiated a science run for the ESA Fluidics investigation. The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank. The Fluidics investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
Microgravity Crystals Plate Set C, Day 6 Observations: The crew removed the Microgravity Crystals samples from Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL), observed and photographed the sample wells using the microscope, then returned the samples to SABL. This set of Microgravity Crystals samples were initiated on Friday (20-September) and is expected to run for 28 days.  The Microgravity Crystals investigation crystallizes a membrane protein that is integral to tumor growth and cancer survival. Although crystallization of this protein has yielded unsatisfactory results on Earth, this investigation leverages extensive protein crystallization work on the space station, significantly increasing the likelihood of successful crystal growth. Results may support development of cancer treatments that target the protein more effectively and with fewer side effects.
Nanoracks Module 9: The crew performed the first round of ops, which included opening clamps, mixing contents and taking photos.  Some of the experiments in this Nanoracks Module 9 suite of investigations include seed sprouting, rusting of steel in various environments, bacterial growth, and protein crystal growth in microgravity.  The experiments use NanoRacks MixStix, miniature laboratories which are activated by the ISS crew and are eventually returned to the student teams on Earth for analysis. 
Nanoracks Module 82: The crew took photos of the Palm Seed Flask contained in the experiment.  The United Arab Emirates (UAE) investigation examines germination of palm tree seeds to determine the best conditions for generating tissue samples for research. A process for growing healthy plant tissue in microgravity could be adapted for testing other indigenous plants of scientific, commercial or educational interest in the UAE. The investigation also observes and documents root growth in microgravity for educational purposes. 
Nanoracks Module 86: The crew photographed the twelve Petri Dishes contained in the experiment.  The Mohammed bin Rashid Space Centre (MBRSC) Science in Space Competition (MBRSC-Mod9), an initiative of the United Arab Emirates Astronaut Program in coordination with NanoRacks LLC, encourages student interest in space science. Schools apply to participate and MBRSC chooses 15 schools, which nominate students to attend workshops where they learn how to prepare scientific experiments on the effects of microgravity. The experiments are part of the scientific mission of the first Emirati astronaut on the space station later this year.
Nanoracks Emulsion tube: The crew demonstrated the mixing properties of two liquids contained inside the Emulsion Tube. The experiment allows the liquids to be easily separated, then shaken to create an emulsion which can be observed.  NanoRacks-Emulsion Tube demonstrates phenomena of the separation of immiscible fluids, or fluids such as oil and water that cannot be mixed or blended. On Earth, buoyancy is the dominant force driving the separation of oil and water into uniform volumes, but in microgravity, surface tension and polarity differences dominate and slow the separation. Analyzing differences between the mixture in Earth’s gravity and microgravity provides insight into fluid physics.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM) Mission 67: The crew removed the 50mm camera lens and installed an 85mm lens. This is a nominal activity typically conducted about halfway through the EarthKAM mission. As of this report, 223 schools representing 20,766 students from 28 countries have signed up to request images (including 108 students from 4 Russian schools). Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Nickelodeon Slime in Space (Non-Newtonian Fluids in Microgravity): The crew performed and recorded the various objectives for the Slime in Space investigation. Non-Newtonian Fluids in Microgravity (Nickelodeon Slime in Space) produces digital video and other content showing experiments in microgravity using Nickelodeon’s iconic slime. The content teaches viewers about microgravity and materials science principles in a fun and engaging manner. It uses television and the internet to reach more than a million students around the country.
The ISS Experience: The crew set up the appropriate hardware and captured the Slime in Space experiment activities. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of 61S, the entire crew participated in this review, which covers priorities during emergency response for safety of the crew and safe configuration of the ISS.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-8 Robotics Onboard Trainer (RoBOT) Onboard Training (OBT): In preparation for tomorrow’s planned HTV-8 capture, the crew completed three Capture Point hold runs which allows practicing free drift timing, malfunction response and nominal rate approaches. They also practiced 2-meter approaches.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pretreat Bad Quality Lights: Due to the ongoing instances of the bad quality light indications, the crew replaced the Pre-Treat Tank as a short-term solution. A WHC nominal functionality test was subsequently performed. Ground teams are developing a long-term forward plan.
Completed Task List Activities:

EVA DOUG review
WHC pre-treat tank R&R

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


MSS power up for N2N ACBM inspection
Payloads ground support

Look Ahead:
Saturday, 9/28 (GMT 271)
Payloads:


CBEF wipe
ESA EPO
Fluidics
Functional Immune
ISS Experience
JAXA EPO
Microgravity Crystals Group B observation
Nanoracks Mod 9/82/96
PCG 19, Probiotics
Standard Measures
Time Perception
Veggie POMS

Systems:

HTV-8 capture/berthing

Sunday, 9/29 (GMT 272)
Payloads:


ESA EPO
HRF sample collections
ISS Experience
Nanoracks Mod 9/82/86
Standard Measures
Story Time from Space

Systems:

Crew off duty

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Operator
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Configuration
ISS Experience Node 1 Setup
JEM Camera Robot S/N 001 Preparation for JAXA-EPO
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) weekly conference
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) DC/DC converter unit 2 (DCU2) Checkout
Slime in Space Hardware Safing Part 1
Slime in Space Galley Table Stow
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Video compression and Recording Unit2 (VRU2) Checkout
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config Columbus Setup
HRF Generic HRF Centrifuge Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
MATRYOSHKA-R. Outfitting Phantom set with detectors. Photography
Slime in Space Camcorder and Work Light Setup
ESA Monthly Management Conference
ISS Experience Introduction Recording
NanoRacks Emulsion Tube Operations Setup
Virtual ATU Configure Node 1
ISS Experience Microphone Don
Slime in Space Operations
Clean Bench (CB) Removal Part 2 Temporary Stow
Slime in Space Hardware Safing Part 2
Bringing ODF up to date using Soyuz 744 delivered files
Slime in Space Operations
ISS Crew departure preparation
Slime in Space Cleanup
Slime in Space Galley Table Restore
ISS Experience Microphone Doff
ISS Experience Hardware Relocate
ISS Experience Microphone Doff
HAM Radio Session
Slime in Space Hardware Safing Part 3
NanoRacks Emulsion Tube Teardown
ISS Crew departure preparation
СОЖ maintenance
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – ESA Nutritional Assessment
Overlay Camera Calibration
Payload Laptop Terminal 3 (PLT3) Swap with Medical Laptop
Robotics Work Station (RWS) Display and Control Panel (DCP) Checkout
Glacier 2 Desiccant Swap
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. HAM Radio Session with South West State University (SWSU) (Science Research Institute of Radio-electronic Systems)
Swapping C. Koch’s (FE-6) seat liner and IELK for SFP’s in Soyuz 742
ТПК 59S Cradle Assembly replace
HTV Capture Review
On-board Training (OBT) HTV Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 2
ISS Experience Hardware Stow
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review

 