
Group Combustion Module (GCM) Installation: FE-5 continued with the third day of installation and preparation for the GCM experiment and was to perform two pressure decay leak checks. After the first check, a leak was detected in the Air/O2 line, thus aborting the second check until specialist can determine the cause and develop a solution. The Elucidation of Flame Spread and Group Combustion Excitation Mechanism of Randomly-distributed Droplet Clouds (Group Combustion) investigation by the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) tests a theory that fuel sprays change from partial to group combustion as flames spread across a cloud of droplets. In the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the Kibo module, droplets of decane, a component of gasoline or kerosene, are arranged randomly on thin-fiber lattice points, and the flame and droplet positions and temperature distribution are measured as the flame spreads. Microgravity blocks convection, which on Earth would quickly disperse the droplets and combustion products before such measurements could be made. 
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM): FE-6 ingressed BEAM and temporarily installed the Internal Wireless Instrumentation System (IWIS) Remote Sensing Unit (RSU) in Node 3 and the Triaxial Accelerometer (TAA) in BEAM. Following the instrument installation, FE-6 performed a modal test by imparting loads onto BEAM and measuring the acceleration throughout the module. Expandable habitats, occasionally described as inflatable habitats, greatly decrease the amount of transport volume for future space missions. These “expandables” weigh less and take up less room on a rocket while allowing additional space for living and working. They also provide protection from solar and cosmic radiation, space debris, and other contaminants. Crews traveling to the moon, Mars, asteroids, or other destinations could potentially use them as habitable structures
ENERGY (Astronaut’s Energy Requirement for Long-Term Space Flight: FE-5 began the first day of the 11 day ENERGY experiment. Intended to measure an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements, ENERGY will require FE-5 to consume standardized meals today and tomorrow, in addition to diet logging over the entire 11 day duration. Today FE-5 also setup the Armband Activity Monitor which will be worn through the duration of the experiment, took water samples, and setup the oxygen uptake measurements (XTP). Energy investigation measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Astronauts often lose body mass with extended stays in space for reasons that remain unclear, although increased exercise as a microgravity countermeasure may be a factor. Knowing details of astronaut metabolism and activity, combined with other conditions, will help ensure that crews are properly nourished on long missions. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.

Personal CO2 Monitor iPad Application Restart
Soyuz 731 Descent Procedure Update
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
URAGAN. Observation and photography
RS Photo Cameras Sync Up to Station Time
EKON-M. Observations and photography
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) Leak Check 1 [Cancelled]
Fine Motor Skills Experiment Test – Subject
Replacement ПУ-1 in АСУ
Hard To Wet Sample Module Inspection
Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ)
Water Recovery System Waste Water Tank Drain Init
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
Mating New Control Panel Telemetry Cable to БИТС2-12
Group Combustion Module (GCM) Experiment Laptop Terminal 2 (ELT2)  Setup
Replacement ПУ-1 Control Panel in [АСУ]
Water Recovery System Waste Water Tank Drain Termination
MRM2 comm config to support the P/L Ops
Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Run
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL
Habitability Human Factors Questionnaires – Subject
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations – Subject
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Remove Items in Front of N3A for Hatch Access
Photo/TV N3/BEAM Camcorder Setup
ARED Platform Fold
Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ)
BEAM Ingress
Air sampling in BEAM module using AK-1M sampler before air duct installation
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) Leak Check 2
Replacement of CO2 Filter Unit ИК0501
Personal CO2 Monitor Power Cycle
TAA Install in BEAM
СОЖ maintenance
Tape Distributed Impact Detection System (DIDS) sensors
Modal Test
Armband Activity Monitor Setup
Progress 432 [OA] Stowage Ops with IMS Support
ENERGY Water Sample
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) pressure gauge check and Valve Operations.
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Energy PFS Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Deconfigure IWIS
DDS Data Download to BEAM SSC
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring
BEAM Cleanup and Egress
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Return Items Back to N3A Location That Were Removed for BEAM Ingress
ARED Platform Unfold Back to Nominal Position
Ghost Camera Stow
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) pressure gauge check and Valve Operations.
CB/ISS CREW CONFERENCE
Flight Director/ISS CREW CONFERENCE
Crew Choice Event
Personal CO2 Monitor Power Cycle
Personal CO2 Monitor Doff and Charge

Completed Task List Items

None 

Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.

Lab MCA Zero Calibration [Delayed]

