
SpaceX-4 Dragon Cargo Operations:  The crew began cargo operations today by removing the items located in the vehicle’s center stack. An estimated 55 hours of Crew time is required to complete cargo operations in the coming weeks.
MICRO 8:  Gerst transferred the Commercial Generic Biologic Apparatus (CGBA), containing Micro-8 Group Activation Packs (GAPs) from Dragon to ER-8 and Activate GAPs.  Micro is a fundamental biology experiment which will expand our understanding of how space flight affects the biological and molecular functions of cells and the molecular mechanisms in spaceflight conditions.
Cell Mechanosensing-2:  Gerst transferred the Cell Mechanosensing-2 samples from Dragon and prepared them for incubation start.  Cell Mechanosensing-2 is a continuing investigation to identify gravity sensors in skeletal muscle cells and help develop countermeasures to muscle atrophy, a key space health issue.
NanoRacks Module-19:  Gerst unpacked NanoRacks Module-19 from General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER). The transfer of cold stowage samples is a time-critical activity. Nanoracks Module -19 is a protein crystal growth experiment.
Circadian Rhythms:  Wiseman completed his Flight Day 120 36 hour continuous Circadian rhythm session.  After completing his 5th session, he removed instrumentation, performed data transfers, and stowed components. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers. 
Rodent Research Locker Relocate:  The Crew installed locker inserts into Express Rack 1 (ER)-1 and ER-2, in preparation for the Rodent Habitat installation scheduled for tomorrow.
Dragon Emergency On-Board Training (OBT): All three crewmembers reviewed Emergency procedures and expected responses associated with Dragon being berthed to the ISS.  Dragon will be berthed to the Node 2 Nadir Port until October 18th.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Station Support Computer (SSC) Swap:  In an ongoing effort to troubleshoot connection issues between the T2 SSC and the T2 Rack, Wiseman replaced the existing T2 SSC with a spare.  However, the swapping of the SSC did not resolve the problem. T2 has not been operational since Monday afternoon.  Ground teams are defining the next series of troubleshooting steps.  Meanwhile, the Crew is able to exercise on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) and Russian Treadmill (BD–2) instead.  
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.

Laptop RS1(2) & RSS2 Reboot / r/g 1009, step 1
SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test
NINJA – Update Password document
BACKUP. Voice check in S/G1 from Baikonur  [Aborted]
Channel О2 ИК0501 sensor adjustment. Uout = 2.72V
SpX-4 Air Sampling using АК-1М sampler prior to Air Duct Installation
СТТС Configuration for MRM1
Mounting ТБУ-В into the frame behind MRM1 panel 205 МИМ1 and connecting to Payload Complement (КЦН) Systems Power Panel (ППС). / r/g 6692
Dragon Hatch Open Photos
DRAGON Transfer Ops
Restore Nominal Comm Configuration
Dragon Delta Emergency Procedure Drill
VIZIR. Experiment Ops. / r/g 6693
ECLSS.. Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
DRAGON Transfer Ops
Cell Mechanosensing 2 Sample Preparation
VIRTUAL. Experiment Ops / r/g 6698
OTKLIK. Hardware Check / r/g 6649
Double Coldbag (DCB) – Hardware Unpack
Micro-8 Transfer CGBA-5 containing Micro-8 GAPs A,B to ISS EXPRESS Rack
Glacier Transfer from Dragon 4 to ISS
VZAIMODEISTVIYE. Experiment Ops / r/g 6697
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. Ham radio session students from Equinox (Equinoccial ) University of Technology, Quito / r/g 6679
ECLSS. Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Micro-8 GAP Insertion in CGBA
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
IVA – Exercise Clothes Survey / USOS procedures
RR – Hardware Setup
Crew removes Module-19 from Glacier and stows it at ambient for later ops
RR – Experiment Conference
Crew conference with Astronaut Office
IVA – Everyday Clothes Survey / USOS procedures
STEM CELL- MELFI Sample Insertion
IVA – Clothes Transfer and Drying
PAO Event

Completed Task List Items

FPEF cable connect [Complete] 

Ground

CUCU Deactivation [Complete]
Dragon Trunk Camera Checkout

