
Payloads
SCRAM (Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor) relocate:  The crew installed the MCA (Major Constituents Analyzer) plug, removed SCRAM from its Node 2 location, installed it into EXPRESS (EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station) rack 8, and removed the MCA plug.  The MCA plug is used to protect the SCRAM’s sensor when the unit is powered off.  SCRAM demonstrates the capabilities of a small, reliable, portable gas chromatograph mass spectrometer instrument aboard the ISS to conduct major and minor elements of air measurement (Nitrogen, Oxygen, Carbon Dioxide, Methane, Water, etc). The instrument transmits data back to the ground research team every two seconds, providing a continuous analysis to the ground research team. It has a mass of less than 9.5 kg, and consumes less than 40 watts of power in its nominal configuration.
Systems
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Eye Exams: Today the crew completed the first day of routine eye exams using the SSC Client to test visual acuity, visual field and contrast sensitivity. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmember’s eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Sampling: The crew performed sampling of the potable bus from the PWD Aux Port in support of ground testing to re-validate the WPA product water for use with EMUs.  The EVA community requested six liters of WPA product water be collected and returned on SpX-21 in order to perform a mini sublimator test following the recent WPA Multi-Filtration (MF) Bed R&R on-orbit. The ECLS and EVA teams opted to collect water in CWC-Is ahead of the mini sublimator test confirming the water is compatible with the EMUs. The sample activity provides an early opportunity to collect water and save crew time by pairing the fill with the sample collection. If the mini sublimator test results are not favorable, EMU water will be launched from the ground as needed and the filled CWC-Is will be used as general potable water.
Completed Task List Activities:

Node 1 Deck 2 Clear
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Quick Disconnect (QD) Corrective Maintenance
PMM ZSR Consolidate

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS Mnvr for SSRMS Walkoff to Node 2 PDGF.
MT Translate from WS5 to WS3
RAUI 3 Troubleshooting (ongoing)
ATS PPL Update
Thruster Ops for MT Translate


LS FDIR Ops for thruster disable period

