
Payloads:
Autonomous Systems and Operations (AMO) EXPRESS-2.5 Ops: Experiment operations were continued, and a questionnaire filled out with feedback on the sessions. In these sessions, simulated commanding of EXPRESS rack 7 was conducted. AMO EXPRESS 2.5 conducts tests using automation and decision support software to help crew members manage spacecraft subsystems. The ability to perform such tasks without assistance from Mission Control is vital for future space exploration such as a mission to Mars, where significant time delays will occur in communications between space and ground. Using automation and decision support software to guide astronauts through complex spacecraft subsystem management activities also reduces the time needed to perform a task.
Neural Integration System: The Confocal Space Microscope and other support hardware was set up to perform a checkout for the Neural Integration System experiment. Effect of the Space Environment on the Neural Integration System and Aging of the Model Animal C. elegans (Neural Integration System) uses this nematode to examine how microgravity affects the nervous system. Previous space experiments have shown that C. elegans experiences muscle atrophy and reduced motor activity and metabolism in microgravity. Research also has shown that space can affect the nervous system, and neural networks may transmit the effects of microgravity throughout the body. Results could support development of countermeasures to protect crew members on future space missions and contribute to better health for Earth’s aging population.
Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station (NutrISS): The crew performed an ESA Nutritional Assessment (ENA) in support of the NutrISS investigation. Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. It is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): The crew performed steps to remove a furnace probe thermocouple, and repaired several preforms to allow them to be processed again. A preform is a cylindrical rod of raw material from which the glass fiber is pulled as it’s passed through the ring-shaped furnace. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Vascular Aging: The experiment materials were reviewed, a breathing volume calibration was performed for the Bio-Monitor system, and the garment and headband were donned to collect data for the Vascular Aging experiment. Emerging data points towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): Following the start of the fourth planting early last week, today the crew performed fluid management, nutrient solution refilling, and seed cartridge wick opening. The wick opening allows the seeds to be assessed for germination and gives them more room to grow during the 30-day growth cycle. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media.  Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) Firmware Load: Over the weekend, the ground teams competed robotic operations to load spare RPCMs with updated firmware at the S12B A truss location. The station now has 6 spare RPCMs with upgraded firmware with hot mate and demate capability. Today, ground team started the Cargo Transport Carrier (CTC) cleanup operations following RPCM firmware load.
Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: To inspect cleaning completed on Friday, the crew surveyed the flow through the IMV using a Velocicalc device. The IMV flow rates should be sufficient to ensure that the IMV fan is operating outside of the stall region which causes a reduction of airflow and an increase fan acoustic noise. Excessive dust buildup can cause this phenomenon. Today’s readings were recorded in the OGS, Node 2 diffusers to the Lab and the Node 2 Overhead visiting vehicle location.
Dragon Departure and Deorbit On-Board Training (OBT): Today, the Crew-4 Dragon crew performed a nominal departure and deorbit OBT in preparation for the Crew-4 undock and return. The SpX Crew-4 is scheduled to undock and return on October 10th.
Food Consolidate: Today, the crew consolidated the Node 1 food pantry to ensure the crew has easy access to food while also helping to reduce the overall stowage footprint in the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM). Crew time is often allocated toward stowage management to maintain safety, organization, and habitability.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) CTC Cleanup
EPS Solar Array Maximum Output Test
ROBO survey of Crew4

