
VEG-03: Following the installation of the Root Mat and Plant Pillows earlier this week, the crew opened the wicks of each Veg-03 Plant Pillow. The Veg-03 investigation uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate types of cabbage, lettuce, and mizuna for on-orbit harvesting and return to Earth for testing.  Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans; future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food and understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. 
Space Headaches:  The weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation was completed by 51S crewmembers.  The Space Headaches investigation collects information which may help in the development of new methods to alleviate the symptoms associated with headaches in space and improve the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers and negatively influence performance during a space mission. 
Mobile Procedure Viewer (MobiPV):  Today the crew completed checkout activities for the MobiPV investigation. MobiPV allows users to view procedures hands-free and aims to improve the efficiency of activity execution by giving crewmembers a wireless set of wearable, portable devices that utilize voice navigation and provide a direct audio/video links to ground experts.  A smartphone is the primary device used by crew to interface with procedures and capability exists to display pictures provided in procedure steps on a Google Glass display.   
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC) Configuration: To prepare for upcoming ACE-T6 operations, the crew configured the LMM for confocal operations. The LMM observation camera, objective lenses, control base, and the confocal test target will be installed inside the LMM AFC. The Light Microscopy Module (LMM) is a modified commercial, highly flexible, state-of-the-art light imaging microscope facility that provides researchers with powerful diagnostic hardware and software onboard the International Space Station (ISS).
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): Today a 51S crewmember conducted a Flight Day 65 FMS session by performing a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The FMS investigation studies how fine motor skills are affected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of FMS is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) On-Orbit Fitcheck Verification:  Today the crew completed pressurized fitchecks on EMU 3003 and 3008 in order to assess fit and feel of the suits prior to the upcoming series of Octobers EVAs. After the initial fitchecks were completed, the resizing of necessary components was successfully accomplished to ensure proper range of motion during the EVAs. The goals of the upcoming EVAs include: Remove and Replace (R&R) of a Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE), lubrication of the two LEEs, and R&R of two external cameras.
PMM Hygiene Cover Installation:  The crew installed a series of hygiene covers and privacy curtains into the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) in order to protect hardware from free water and provide the crew increased privacy during personal hygiene activities.  
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

EHS-ACOUSTIC DOSIMETER-DATA XFER/STOW
ESA Monthly Management Conference
Equipment Lock (E-LK) Preparation
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) On-orbit Fitcheck Verification
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Resize
EVA SAFER Automatic Attitude Hold Checkout
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Countermeasures System (CMS) Exercise session using КОР-01-Н set
Fine Motor Skills Experiment Test – Subject
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open/Close
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – ESA Nutritional Assessment
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Questionnaire
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test
Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
Delta file prep
LMM AFC Configuration
MOBIPV CHECKOUT 
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) in Columbus
Hygiene Cover and Privacy Curtain Installation
TV conference with the “News of Week” program correspondent (Ku + S-band)
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config JEM Setup
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
VEG-03 Wick Open
On MCC Go Transfer of USOS ЕДВ brine and ЕДВ-У urine to Progress 436 [AO] Rodnik H2O Tank 2 and flushing H2O tank 2 connector В2
Inspection and photography of RS SM windows 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 26
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) Weekly Conference
RELAXATSIYA.  Observation
RELAXATSIYA. Parameter Settings Adjustment
RELAXATSIYA. Charging battery for Relaksatstiya experiment (initiate)
Nikon still camera sync with station time
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops
СОЖ maintenance
IDENTIFICATION. Copy ИМУ-Ц micro-accelerometer data to laptop 

Completed Task List Activities

None 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Standard commanding

