09-28-2010September 28, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 09/28/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  CDR Wheelock & FE-6 Walker continued their current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 5th for both of them, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Preparatory to the scheduled IFM (Inflight Maintenance), along with annual maintenance, on the T2/COLBERT treadmill in Node-3, Wheelock & Walker installed the protective alignment guides on the T2 rack and removed the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) Kabin temporarily to make room.  They then disassembled the VIS (Vibration Isolation System) hardware for protection, rotated the T2 rack and removed it from its bay, stowing it overnight in Node-2 (forward endcone).    [The T2 IFM, including alignment, centering & ACO (Activation & Checkout) will not be completed until 9/30 (Thursday).]  In Node-2, Walker afterwards uninstalled the T2 PAU (Power Avionics Unit) and replaced it with a the new unit, unpacked yesterday, stowing the old PAU instead.    [Both PAUs have a design flaw which results in limited motorized speeds.  The old unit will be returned to the ground to verify the root cause of the failure.  The new unit still imposes speed limitations, maxing out in the upper range of approximately 8 mph.]  With the T2 rack absent, Shannon started the T-hose installation IFM on the WRS WPA (Water Recovery System / Water Processing Assembly) in Node-3, today routing the hose to the back of the rotated WRS1 rack and configuring the WRS1 door.  To be continued tomorrow.     [The T-hose will provide the crew with an alternate source of potable water, by using iodinated water reserves (CWC-Is/Contingency Water Containers-Iodine) on the USOS (US Segment).]   Supporting the T-hose R&R activity, Wheelock set up the LFTP (Low Flow Transfer Pump) and initiated offloading condensate water from a CWC to the WPA product water storage tank, letting it fill completely to prevent air leakage into the tank during the Tee installation.  Later, Doug pre-filled some drink bags from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) for the crew’s use tomorrow since the WPA water delivery function will be inhibited to keep the tank filled during the IFM for most of the day.  FE-5 Yurchikhin set up the equipment for another run of the Russian SSTV (Slow Scan TV) equipment of the MAI-75 Imagery Transmission experiment, part of OBR-3 (Obrazovanie-3, Education 3) ops.  This is essentially an ARISS (Amateur Radio from ISS) ham radio set-up with Kenwood TM D700 Transceiver & Kenwood VS-N1 (Visual Communicator) gear for downlinking selected photographic images to the ground station at MAI.  Later in the day, the test radio session was terminated.  To date, there have been 8 runs with MAI-75 on board the ISS.     [The payload is named after the renowned MAI (Moscow Aviation Institute) whose reputation is based on the large number of famous aviators and rocket scientists that received their academic education here.  Among the alumni are Academicians and Corresponding Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences.  Over 100 General and Chief Designers earned their degree at MAI, with famous rocket scientists like Makeyev, Mishin, Nadiradze and Yangel.  MAI also fostered 20 Pilot-Cosmonauts, almost 100 famous test pilots, Heroes of the Soviet Union and Russia.  The amateur radio (ham) equipment aboard the ISS for downlinking SSTV imagery is a MAI product.]  Yurchikhin continued the installation of the new PCE (Proximity Communications Equipment; Russian: MBRL) for the European ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) in the RS (Russian Segment).    [Activities included installing & connecting the BUAP/Antenna Switching Control Unit in the SM (Service Module) on panel 226 (left surface of medical cabinet) with the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and VD-SU control mode deactivated, checking out the feeder lines of the MBRL AFU (Antenna Feeder Unit) for continuity with reflection measurements using the FSH3 Spectrum Analyzer, and transferring the FSH3 data to the RSE1 laptop for downlink and ground review.]  After the BUAP installation, BITS2-12 & VD-SU were turned on again, allowing the ground to reactivate the Russian Elektron O2 generator, with Yurchikhin monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.    [Temperature is checked twice, about 3-4 minutes apart, with the MultiMeter with temperature probe.  The standard manual check is required because the gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup. Elektron had to be turned off while the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system & VD-SU control mode were temporarily deactivated for the MBRL BUAP installation.]  FE-5 also performed the regular inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).  Later, Fyodor took the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, spending 90 min on the TVIS treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.     [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmember rests for 5 min., then works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h for 2 min, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h for 1 min, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace to 3.5 km/h].  Wheelock serviced the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge by inserting fresh desiccants, intended to prevent internal condensation moisture.  The old packs were removed yesterday.    [MERLIN is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.]  Yurchikhin performed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  At ~1:20pm EDT, Fyodor was scheduled for his weekly PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- & Ku-band audio/video.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-5).  New tasks added to the crew’s “job jar” roster are  For Wheels & Shannon:  3 tasks for the CARD (Long Term Microgravity: A Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease) experiment:   HLTA (Holter Arterial) battery insertion,HLTA troubleshooting,HLTA stowage.  For Fyodor:  MATRYOSHKA-R Radiation Suite: Photo imagery & location check of Spherical Phantom hardware in MRM2 “Poisk”,GLAVBOKS-S (Glovebox-S) in MRM2: Closeout operations and restowing Komplekt ZIP (spares) and Port kit in Glovebox bag.    MT Translation:   At ~2:30pm-4:30pm, the Mobile Transporter with the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) is to be moved by CSA ground command (S-band) on its rails on the main truss from WS4 (Worksite 4) to WS6.  Russian thrusters are disabled for this event from 12:35pm-4:35pm, and no unisolated crew exercises are allowed during the roll-over.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Beirut, Lebanon (ISS had a nadir-viewing overpass of this capital city.  The city is located on a peninsula midway along the Mediterranean coastline of Lebanon.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), Damascus, Syria (shortly after passing over Beirut, the crew had a nadir-viewing overpass of Damascus.  The city is located in the eastern foothills of the Anti-Lebanon mountain range.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), Riyadh, Saudi Arabia (looking to the left of track for the city of Riyadh.  The street grid of the city contrasts sharply with the surrounding desert.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban and surrounding rural area were requested), West Hawk Impact Crater, Manitoba (this 4.5 km diameter impact crater is approximately 350 million years old and is now filled with a lake.  Looking to the right of track for West Hawk Lake - this now fills the impact structure.  Overlapping mapping frames of the impact structure were requested), Twitchell Canyon Fire, Utah (Dynamic Event. The Twitchell Canyon Fire is ongoing, and fire crews continue to work towards containment.  Looking to the right of track for smoke plumes from the fire), and Edwards Plateau Land-use (weather was predicted to be clear over the Edwards Plateau, allowing for detailed land use mapping.  Looking to the left of track as ISS approached San Antonio, TX for the region of interest.  Overlapping mapping frames, taken parallel to your orbit track, were recommended).  