
40 Soyuz (40S) Launch and Dock:  40S launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome at 3:25pm CDT today with Barry Wilmore, Elena Serova, and AlexanderSamokutyaev onboard. After orbital insertion, Mission Control Center Moscow confirmed that the port side solar array had not deployed. However, battery charging was sufficient with only one array (Starboard) deployed and the vehicle proceeded with a nominal 4-orbit rendezvous with ISS. Docking to the MRM-2 module occurred at 9:11pm CDT.  At approximately 9:49pm CDT, the 40S port array deployed with no additional commanding. Hatch opening subsequently took place at 12:07am CDT.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG):  Wiseman activated the MSG Facility to support Rodent research MSG payload operations.
Rodent Research Animal Transfer:  The crew setup of Rodent Habitats, software checkout, and  moved the animal transporter from Dragon to the US Lab then transferred animals to two Rodent Habitats.
Space Headaches:  Gerst and Wiseman completed the space headaches questionnaire. The objectives of this study are to obtain in-flight data allowing evaluation of the prevalence and characteristics of headache in microgravity.
Aquatic Habitat:  Gerst assembled the Aquatic Habitat experimental apparatus and performed a water exchange in preparation for the arrival of the Zebrafish Muscle experiment on 40S.
Cell Mechanosensing 2 (CMS-2): Gerst removed CMS-2 samples from Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and started the first incubation of mouse mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs).  The cells are incubated with micro-gravity and artificial 1g environment using the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) in the JEM Saibo rack. Cell Mechanosensing-2 is a continuing investigation to identify gravity sensors using several cultured cells and help develop countermeasures to muscle atrophy.  On the basis of the images obtained in orbit and from the chemically fixed cells on returning to Earth, the influence of gravity on the fine structures such as adherence, organelles will be assessed.
Circadian Rhythms:  Wiseman completed his Flight Day 120 36 hour continuous Circadian rhythm session.  After completing his 5th session, he removed instrumentation, performed data transfers, and stowed components. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Laptop RS1(2) & RSS2 reboot / r/g 1009
SM Caution and Warning Panel test
MSG – glovebox activation
SKIN B – nominal ops
CRHYT- uninstall and hw cleanup
Weekly crew-ГОГУ management conference (S-band) / r/g 6650
Closing US window shutter
Rodent Research- Preparation
Activating Vozdukh – mode 2
ASEPTIK. Installing thermostatic freezer Gryogem-03 / r/g 6695
VIZIR. Experiment run Tagup / r/g 6693
KASKAD. Activation of ТБУ-В №04 thermostat at + 4 deg С / r/g 6694
·Daytime crew sleep
ТК 714 ODF ops
MSG – unpower glovebox
MSPR-ZEBRA. Rack prep and activation
Activating gas analyzer in ТК 713 (MRM1)
Post-arrival crew cabins outfitting
RR- hw prep and transfer
RR- sample insertion into MELFI
NANO- Module-24 and Module-31 hw prep
CMS2- sample removal from MELFI & attachment in locations
Closing windows 6,8,9,12,13,14 covers / r/g 5451
RGN-REC TK – transfer and replacement
Comm config and other prep for ТК 714 docking to MRM2 `/ r/g 6706 & 6707
Activation of video monitoring and  mpeg2 multicast / r/g 6701
CMS2- inserting sample packs into MELFI
ZEBRA- water replacement in module
Monitoring ТК 714 approach to ISS (MRM2)) r/g 6707
CMS2- sample prep
WRS – filling container for processing from EDV
Switching КВД СО-ТК to ЭЛЕКТ УПР
Closing applications and downlinking mpeg2 multicast recording via ОСА / r/g 6701
RR- installing samples in Glacier
Leak check of ТК 714 – MRM2 interface.
Drying 2 suits
Post-docking ТК 714 – returning comm to nominal comm config / r/g 6706
HMS – food questionnaire
WRS – filling container for processing from EDV
Opening Soyuz – MRM2 transfer hatches; TV broadcast Arrival of ISS-41
Space suit #s 1, 2, & 3  drying in ТК 713 – start
WRS – filling container for processing from EDV
SHD- weekly headache questionnaire
Safety breifing post-docking of ТК 714 to MRM2
Connecting USB CEVIS to SSC
RGN REC-TNK – removing pressure relief hose for nominal ops
SHD-weekly headache questionnaire
Gloves – pair 1, 2, & 3 –drying/ Orbital flight ТК №714
Deactivation of ТК 714 (except ГА deactivation)
Stowing Suits 1, 2, & 3 with gloves after drying /Orbital flight ТК №714

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities

System commanding associated with Soyuz Rendevous and Docking [Completed] 

