
Payloads:
Food Acceptability:  Using the data collection tool on a Station Support Computer (SSC), the crew completed their Food Acceptability surveys. This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system. Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
Food Physiology: The crew gathered several types of body samples in support of the Food Physiology experiment. They also set up hardware to support tomorrow’s blood collection activities. The Integrated Impact of Diet on Human Immune Response, the Gut Microbiota, and Nutritional Status During Adaptation to Spaceflight (Food Physiology) experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effects of dietary improvement on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight.
Kibo Robot Programming Challenge-2 Final Round: The Robo-Pro Challenge event was completed successfully. The event was previously deferred due to ISS network issues which prevented the uplink of the necessary files. The Kibo Robot Programming Challenge (Robo-Pro Challenge), also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the ISS. This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering, and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers. This activity is based on Japan-U.S. cooperation through the Japan-US Open platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3). 
Systems:
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement: As part of Station’s standard system health monitoring, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through selected ventilation inlets and outlets. Today’s measurements were taken onboard an ISS visiting vehicle.
Cargo Dragon Departure Preparations: The crew completed several activities in preparation for Cargo Dragon SpaceX-23 (SpX-23) departure. The crew completed nearly all cargo transfer and stowage operations, completed a Cargo Dragon Departure On-Board Training (OBT), transferred a Polar from the ISS to Cargo Dragon, and transferred two Polars from NG-16 to Cargo Dragon. Tomorrow, the crew will transfer cold stowage coldbags to ensure frozen samples remain at the proper temperature as they return to the ground. SpX-23 undock is scheduled for tomorrow at 08:00 AM CT to return cargo and payloads to the ground.
Treadmill (T2) Snubber Cup Inspection: To ensure the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition, the crew inspected all four snubber cup liners and cleaned the snubber pins. T2 is the on-orbit treadmill used to maintain crew health during extended visits to the ISS.
ISS Stowage Audit: the crew performed an audit of the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) to ensure ground teams are in sync with the onboard configuration. This audit is performed to enable future stowage optimization. The crew also performed an audit of the Tape Pantry todetermine the current number of consumables. This audit will be used as a reference to update manifesting resupply rates at this location.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Attitude Control System (ACS) Optimized Propellant Maneuver (OPM) Execution
Cargo Dragon C2V2 checkout
Cargo Dragon hotfire thruster test
Cargo Dragon GN&C checkout

