
Payloads:
Astrobee/Smartphone Video Guidance Sensor (SVGS): Following the installation of the SVGS LED targets, the science 3 session was performed. SVGS demonstrates the use of a photogrammetric vision-based technology for guidance, navigation, and control of a small spacecraft. Developed by NASA, the vision-based sensor computes the position and orientation vector of a target relative to a coordinate system attached to a camera in the host platform, in this case the ISS free-flying robot Astrobee. This demonstration consists of five maneuvers involving motion control and data capture for one, two, and three Astrobee robots.
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): A BCM research session consisting of a set of 12 runs/tests was performed. The BCM experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight, and evaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the original activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crew members to complete either individual or crew telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember who has spent months in weightlessness can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): The insertion of the seed cartridges and root modules to formally begin the fourth plant growth session was performed. Over the next 30+ days, the crew will observe and assist with the seed germination and growout of the plants.  The fourth planting includes Mizuna, Cherry Belle, Hakurei, and Tokyo Bekana. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media.  Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Foams and Emulsions: The Experiment 2 science sessions were continued with the generation, injection, and observation of foam. Today’s sessions created a foam and injected it into an area with wire frames to observe the foam’s interaction and development over time. Foams (dispersions of bubbles in a liquid) and emulsions (dispersions of droplets in a liquid) appear in many food, consumer, and personal care products and are used in a variety of industries. Structure and Stability of Foams and Emulsions examines the properties and performance of foams and emulsions, including using particles of various shapes and surface roughness to stabilize these materials. Microgravity enables examination of the microstructures of foams and emulsions due to the elimination of the influence of gravity-related factors such as buoyancy of particles.
Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station (NutrISS): The crew set up the NutrISS bioimpedance device and performed a measurement session. They also filled out a questionnaire related to the session and took photos while performing the investigation.  Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. It is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The EarthKAM hardware components were set up in the Node 2 nadir window for a week-long imaging session. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Vascular Aging: The crew performed ultrasound scans of the neck, thigh, portal vein and heart using multiple ultrasound probes.  They also performed a blood pressure monitoring session.  Emerging data points towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace (R&R): Today, the Pre-Treat Tank was R&R’d as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.
Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK) Audit: The crew completed a Stow Track audit of the Node1 Nadir VOK, Node 2 Nadir VOK, NRAL VOK, and Miscellaneous VOK Cargo Transfer Bags (CTBs). The Stow Track is a tool that is designed to assist the Inventory and Stowage Officer (ISO) team with managing inventory on the Space Station.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSE, MCE, OCA, and HEVS Windows Clients Security Patch Updates
Soyuz-68S VHF Pre-Launch I/F Checkout
Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Commanded to Full Calibration

