
Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP)/Small Fine Arm Attachment Mechanism (SAM) removal: FE-5 retracted the Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) slide table into the module and removed the MPEP and SAM.  Tomorrow, the crew will ingress Pressurized Mating Adapter-2 (PMA2) to retrieve the JEM ORU Transfer Interface (JOTI) and install it on the Slide Table to support the Robotics External Leak Locator (RELL). 
Lab Window Inspection and Cleaning:  Today, the crew inspected the Lab Window for contamination and damage. This inspection attempts to document any contamination or damage there may be on any of the Window pane surfaces.  After the inspection, the crew cleaned the inboard surface of Lab Window Primary Pressure Pane.  The cleaning is being performed to enhance the optics for the METEOR Payload installed in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance: Today, the crew completed regularly scheduled ARED maintenance. They greased the Vibration Isolation System (VIS) rails and rollers and inspected the X-rotation dashpots and main arm bearings.  In addition, the crew performed an ARED Flywheel Cylinder Evacuation that was scheduled for later this week. 
Cygnus Capture On-board Training (OBT):  FE-5 and FE-6 participated in a conference with ground specialist to discuss the overall Cygnus (OA-5) capture training plan.  FE-5 and FE-6 reviewed the capture procedure, Backaway Cue Card and Capture Cue card.  Finally the crew performed the computer based training (CBT) review of the OA-5 mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures and interfaces for monitoring and commanding Cygnus.  OA-5 is scheduled to arrive at the ISS in October.
Story Time from Space: Over the weekend, FE-6 recorded the reading of two books, “The Rhino Who Swallowed a Storm” and “Rosie Revere, Engineer”, as part of Story Time from Space. Story Time consists of reading seven children’s books with space/science/cooperation themes as an advocacy Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Math (STEAM) and Literacy project. The Story Time project provides an opportunity to deliver ISS research content to communities that have not previously been engaged in the space program.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) Routine Maintenance:  The crew performed a change out of the WHC UR and insert filter. Following the change out, WHC exhibited some off nominal signatures.  The crew performed initial troubleshooting steps, and will continue troubleshooting tomorrow to regain functionality of the WHC. In the meantime, the crew will use the [ACY].
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities completed unless otherwise noted.

Multi Omics Saliva Operations
МО-8. H/W set up
EKON-M. Observations and photography
Multi Omics Saliva sample MELFI Insertion
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
Multi Omics Question
MO-8 equipment stowage
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
XF305 Camcorder Setup
JEM Airlock Slide Table Extension to JPM Side
BAR. Performing experiment
JEM Airlock Capture Mechanism Release
MPEP Removal from SAM
SAM removal from JEM Airlock Slide Table
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance
JEM Airlock Slide Table Retraction from JPM Side
Robot Startup
Lab Window Inspection Photo/TV Camera Setup
On-Board Training (OBT) Cygnus Conference
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Review
MRM2 comm config to support the P/L Ops
Kulonovskiy Kristall H/W setup
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Rendezvous Review
Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Ops Tagup with specialists
Meteor Partial Removal
LAB Window Inspection Review
LAB Window Inspection
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Lab Window Cleaning
LAB Window Inspection Cleanup
Kulonovskiy Kristall –  Data Copy and Downlink
Meteor Partial Installation
ELEKTRON purge after deactivation
СОЖ maintenance
Personal CO2 Monitor Donn

Completed Task List Items

Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus Sample Insert/Retrieve [Completed Sunday]
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations [Completed Sunday]
Manufacturing Device Print Removal, Clean and Stow [Completed Sunday]
Swap Station Support Computers (SSCs) 5 & 17 for ROBoT [Completed Sunday]
ROBoT Software Startup [Completed Sunday]
Story Time Book Rhino Read [Completed Sunday]
Story Time Book Rosie Read [Completed Sunday]
ZBook Server Location Assessment [Completed Sunday]
WHC Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter R&R
BEAM IMV Coupling Verification
AQM Relocate
Water Sample Reclaim
JAXA Video Taking Part 6 (Active)

Ground Activities
All activities completed unless otherwise noted.

N3 MCA Zero Calibration
Lab MCA Activation

