
Marrow:  Today a 51S crewmember collected breath and ambient air samples for the Marrow investigation which looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Configuration for Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): The crew configured the CIR optics bench that will be used to support the ACME investigation. Due to the amount of hardware requiring installation, configuration activities took a couple of days this week to complete. The ACME investigation is a set of five independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the CIR. ACME’s primary goal is to improved fuel efficiency and reduced pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth. Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Sarcolab-3: Today a USOS subject ingressed the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) chair, located in the Columbus module, while a Russian operator collected ultrasound images of the subject’s right leg during exercise activities. This completed the third and final day of the ankle configuration exercises, which were performed by three different USOS and Russian crewmembers. Later today, the MARES hardware was re-configured to support tomorrow’s knee configuration exercises. The data collected for Sarcolab-3 will be compared to pre and post-flight measurements to assess the impact of hypothesized microgravity induced muscle loss. Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus (calf muscle) where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Multi-Omics-Mouse Consolidation:  Following the successful completion and return of the Multi-Omics investigation last week, the crew completed item consolidation tasks and returned the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) back to its nominal configuration. 
EVA Preparation:  In preparation for the upcoming EVAs, the crew completed Enhanced Caution and Warning System (EWCS) training and EMU battery charging. 
S-Band String 2 Troubleshooting: Yesterday, the ground team swapped S-Band string 1 to string 2 to gain confidence in its performance. On August 6, 2017, String 2 S-Band/UHF Audio Interface (AUAI)-1P showed intermittent functionality after an AUAI Passive Built-In Test (PBIT) fault indication. Space to Ground (S/G) audio on channels 1 and 2 became unusable. Functionality was recovered by switching to S-band string 1. Since the event, multiple attempts to duplicate the signature have been unsuccessful. The plan is to remain on string 2 until the schedule USOS EVAs in early October.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

ESA-PAO-RAI PRIX
ASI Biomission script recording
In Situ message recording
PERSEO message recording
ESA-PAO-CORRIERE
Virtual Reality Training (VRT) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER)
Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-Board Training
ESA-PAO-GUGGENHEIM
IMS Delta file prep
Handover of Increment 53 Crew
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
Vacuum cleaning ventilation grille on FGB interior panels (201, 301, 401)
ECON-M. Observation and photography
Multi-Omics-Mouse Item Consolidation
ISS Crew Orientation
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Backup Power Retrieve
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config JEM Setup
Crew Prep for PAO
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
Combustion Integrated Rack Hardware Gather
TV conference with the participants of the Space Lesson
Environmental Health System (EHS) Grab Sample Container (GSC) Sampling Operations
MARES Ankle Shaving Preparation
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops
Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Setup – Subject
SARCOLAB (MARES) Ultrasound 2 Powerup
MARES Ultrasound session
FGB Gas Analyzer Vacuum Cleaning
XF305 Camcorder Setup
СОЖ maintenance
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Power Cable Connection
Ultrasound 2 Guided Data Export
Columbus Video Camera Assembly 2 Adjustment
MARES subject electrodes equipment
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 4
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Adjustment of БД-2 passive mode SW ratio
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill [ABORTED]
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Coliform Water Sample Analysis 44 +/- 4 hours post processing
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) On Board Training (OBT)
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
Combustion Integrated Rack Optics Bench Configuration 2 for ACME
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Human Research Facility Ultrasound 2 power off and stowage
MARES Power On and Battery Charge
MARES knee configuration installation
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill Part 3
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Terminate
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Initiation
MARES Battery Charge control
Combustion Integrated Rack Optics Bench Translation In
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
MARES Knee configuration fit check
Integrated Emergency Procedure Review
EPM Laptop relocation for files downlink preparation
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
EPM Laptop relocation to MARES

Completed Task List Activities

HMS CCPK Cleanup
52S Unpack Activities

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Standard commanding

