
ENERGY (Astronaut’s Energy Requirement for Long-Term Space Flight): Today, FE-5 continued with Day 2 of the 11 day ENERGY experiment. The second day activities include the consumption of a standardized breakfast, continued diet logging, continued wear of the Armband Activity Monitor, double labeled water intake, oxygen uptake measurements, and urine collection. FE-6, as the control subject, also provided a urine sample for the investigation. The Energy investigation measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Astronauts often lose body mass with extended stays in space for reasons that remain unclear, although increased exercise as a microgravity countermeasure may be a factor. Knowing details of astronaut metabolism and activity, combined with other conditions, will help ensure that crews are properly nourished on long missions.
Hard to Wet Surfaces: In continuation of the Hard to Wet Surfaces investigation, today FE-6 inspected the Sample Module for any undissolved remains of the white tablets. The Hard to Wet Surfaces investigation studies how certain materials used in the pharmaceutical industry dissolve in water while in microgravity. Results from this investigation could help improve the design of tablets that dissolve in the body to deliver drugs, thereby improving drug design for medicines used in space and on Earth.
NeuroMapping Operations: FE-6 setup the NeuroMapping hardware and performed the experiment which includes testing in both a “strapped in” and “free floating” body configuration. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes any changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the International Space Station.
Extravehicular Activities (EVA) Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) Torque Analyzer Kit (TAK) Data Gather:  Today, FE-6 installed the TAK onto each of the PGTs and recorded their torque output for ground analysis.  This activity is part of a 6-month requirement for all on-orbit PGTs.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE) Survey:  SSRMS was walked off from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 3 to MBS PDGF 1 and inspection of LEE A was completed using the External High Definition Cameras (EHDCs).  Later this afternoon, SSRMS will be walked off to Node 2 for Cygnus capture preparations. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.

Personal CO2 Monitor Doff and Charge
Soyuz 731 Descent Procedure Update
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
EKON-M. Observations and photography
Energy PFS Powerup
Energy Urine Sample Collection
Energy PFS Instrument Check
ENERGY Double Labeled Water Intake
Energy Oxygen Uptake
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain
Video Recording of Greetings
Hard to Wet Sample Module Inspection
MRM2 comm config to support the P/L Ops
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Experiment Ops
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Hardware Teardown
Measuring CO partial pressure at Central Post using CSA-CP analyzer (Located on SM Central Post panel 208)
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Data export from БСПН Payload Server to RSS1 (start)
Cleaning ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filters and В1, В2, Fan Screens in MRM2
Energy Sample Collection
Deconfig IWIS TAA, IWIS TAA Cable Assembly, IWIS Power Chain, Stow Remaining Hardware
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Regenerative ECLSS WSTA Fill
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
СОЖ maintenance
ENERGY Diet Log of Lunch
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Deactivation
Energy PFS Conclude
Personal CO2 Monitor Donn
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Data export from БСПН Payload Server to RSS1 (end)
Strata Status Check
NeuroMapping Experiment Neurocognitive Test – Subject
Tightening of Progress 432 [AO] QD Screw Clamps
Extravehicular Activities (EVA) Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) Torque Analyzer Kit (TAK) Data Gather
IMS Delta File Prep
ENERGY Diet Log of Dinner
Personal CO2 Monitor Power Cycle

Completed Task List Items

Node2 Dragon Unpack 

Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.

SSRMS Walkoff and LEE A Survey
Lab CDRA Activation 

