
Payloads:
Food Physiology: The crew and principal investigator team attended a diet briefing in support of the Food Physiology investigation. The Food Physiology experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): Preform exchanges were finished for subsequent processing into fiber. A preform is a cylindrical rod of raw material from which the glass fiber is pulled as it’s passed through the ring-shaped furnace. Fiber processing was observed by the crew in order to obtain direct feedback on the characteristics of the processing runs. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Systems:
Solar Array Wing (SAW) Max Power Testing: Ground controllers completed the SAW bi-annual max power testing to track the performance and health of the arrays. Today, teams completed the Primary Power System (PPS) Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) Shunt Test to assess the array’s ability to shunt or dissipate power if the power cannot be used. The data collected will be used for in-depth analysis and future recommendations.
Crew Dragon Freedom Suit Checkout: The Freedom Crew performed a checkout of their Crew Dragon suits to confirm suit fit and operability prior to departure from ISS. The crew first donned their suits, open, closed, and re-opened their helmet visors, and checked all zippers. Following this suit check, the crew doffed their suits and checked their earpieces using Crew Dragon Freedom audio. Finally, the crew visually inspected their suits for any foreign object debris (FOD) or damage. Crew Dragon Freedom is planned to undock after a direct handover with the upcoming Crew-5 mission.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Survey of Dragon: The ground teams competed robotic operations for the Dragon survey. The team maneuver the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to get footage of the Crew-4 Dragon for the upcoming undock.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS Survey of Dragon TPS
SSU Shunt Test
Crew Dragon Awake Mode Checkout

