
Payloads
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM) Lens Change: The crew exchanged the currently-installed 50mm camera lens for an 85mm camera lens.  This activity is typically performed about halfway through an EarthKAM mission to give the students different options for their targets.  As of the last report, almost 21,000 students from 33 countries were participating.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
HXP2 Safing Ops: The crew removed the EVA bolt 2 on ExHAM#2, which was found to be loose during ops on 6-August earlier this year.  The EVA bolt is a contingency release mechanism, intended to be used when the primary release method for attachment to the handrail fails.  However, in its current state it is better to remove the EVA bolt and associated hardware rather than risk it coming apart and causing other issues.  Taking advantage of Kibo’s unique function of having both an airlock and a robotic arm on the ISS, the ExHAM (Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism) facility enables space experiments to be performed in the exposed space environment, by attachment to the Japanese Experiment Module Kibo’s Exposed Facility.
Systems
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Robotics Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS in support of crew Cygnus Offset Grapple practice. During this On-Board-Training (OBT) session, the crew took turns flying the SSRMS into the grapple envelope of the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) for training/familiarization in preparation for NG-14 capture.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Brine Filter:  As part of regular maintenance, the ISS crew opened up the UPA Fill Drain Valve Enclosure and removed the installed/old Brine Filter and replaced it with a new Brine Filter. Brine Filters are replaced every 60 days.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: Today, the crew set up the recycle tank to drain to a ЕДВ-У. Following the setup the ground performed the tank drain using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, and repositioned the fill/drain valve to fill. The crew also swapped the ЕДВ in the offload ЕДВ spot of the UTS.
ISS Leak Detection Operations: Today, the crew continued to search for the location of the source of the leak. MCC-M has determined the leak is located in the PRK [ПPK]. The forward plan for the PRK leak is currently to continue leak pinpoint operations utilizing the Ultrasonic Leak Detector (ULD).
Completed Task List Activities:

Cygnus Big Picture Words for SSRMS Capture
ESA cargo consolidation in Columbus

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Recycle Tank Drain Ground Support
Ground Support for Cygnus Offset Grapple


Equinox Voltage Max Power Testing

