10-09-2010October 09, 2010ISS On-Orbit Status 10/09/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday –  Soyuz 24S Docking Day.  Sleep cycle shift:  To accommodate tonight’s arrival of Soyuz TMA-01M/24S at ~8:02pm EDT, crew wake/sleep cycle changes are in effect, featuring a two-part Saturday workday:  Wake      –  2:00am EDT (this morning) Lunch – 9:00am Sleep –       10:00am-2:00pm  Wake –       2:00pm Sleep –       4:30am  (tomorrow, Sunday 10/10) for a very long “sleep”  (CDR to get up at      briefly 1:30pm-1:50pm for transfer of PADIAC EC2 from KUBIK-3 to BLB      TCU-2) Wake      –  2:00am (Monday 10/11) – returning to nominal.    At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   After wakeup, CDR Wheelock & FE-6 Walker performed a session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.      [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   Doug & Shannon completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   At the COL EDR (Columbus Orbital Laboratory European Drawer Rack) the CDR unstowed the KUBIK-3 thermostat-controlled container, setting it up in preparation of the ESA/Swiss experiment PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators), then turned on the EDR laptop and started preheating in two KUBIKs to +37 degC.      [KUBIK-3 (stand-alone) to be used for the short & KUBIK-6 (in EDR) for the long PADIAC run.  PADIAC will study activation of T-cells (mature white blood cells from the thymus gland) in microgravity to improve the knowledge of the immune system.]   On TsUP Go, Fyodor repressurized the ISS cabin atmosphere with O2 (oxygen) from Progress 37P’s SKDS Section 2 tankage.    Walker completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router & FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) laptops (the latter required to mitigate the problem of iPV and OSTPV not opening up procedures due to a memory leak in the “Tomcat” software).  After a period of no less than 10 min later, FE-6 also rebooted the two ISS network servers (SERVER1 & 2).   Shannon also conducted the periodic camera setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) with Sample 7, done one, three and five days after initializing.   In the SM (Service Module), Fyodor Yurchikhin did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS).     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   In line with today’s shortened Part 1 duty cycle, the crew performed an abbreviated physical workout regime on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR), and VELO (ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-5).    [TVIS was approved for exercising yesterday after the replacement of its VIS (Vibration Isolation System) Controller restored it to full serve.]   At ~8:25am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   After their regular midday lunch break at ~9:00am, the three crewmembers began their first sleep period at ~10:00am.   With a new “day” beginning at 2:00pm, Wheelock & Walker performed another session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.   Meanwhile, Yurchikhin started the 2nd wake period with the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V), to be repeated tomorrow morning at ~2:00am before next bedtime.   CDR & FE-6 will work out on the exercise equipment, Wheels 1h on the CEVIS, Shannon 1.5h on ARED.   For tonight’s Soyuz arrival, Walker is scheduled to –  Power down the amateur/ham      radio equipment to prevent RF interference with Soyuz/KURS prox ops, Make sure that the      protective window shutters in the Lab, Kibo & Cupola are closed, Install the four alignment      guides at the T2/COLBERT for load protection, and Update the SODF (Station      Operations Data File) with P&I (pen & ink) for tomorrow’s      Safety Briefing & the Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Book.    Wheelock & Yurchikhin meanwhile are focusing on final preparations for the Soyuz approach & docking.  Pre-docking activity steps will have them –  Turning on &      function-testing the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M      IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment hardware in the SM to take      structural dynamics data during the docking; Checking out the RS      (Russian Segment) video “scheme” which uses the SONY HDV      camera for transmitting over the MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2)      encoder from FGB & SM to downlink via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band in      “streaming video” packets, Setting up the BRTK TVS video      equipment to receive video from Soyuz and transmit it via Ku-band, Configuring STTS/station communications      for the docking, and Monitoring approach and      final docking of Soyuz (~8:02pm).    After the Soyuz docking at the MRM2 “Poisk” module, Yurchikhin’s activities will include –  Switching hatch KVDs (Pressure      Equalization Valves/PEVs) between MRM2 & Soyuz back to Electric      control mode, Downlinking the TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB      (“Bend”) structural dynamics measurements and closing out the      data take, and Reconfiguring STTS station comm for      the nominal post-docking hardline mode (MBS).    Wheelock will turn off the BRTK TVS video system, while Walker removes the T2/COLBERT alignment guides.   After leak checking (9:45pm-11:00pm), hatch opening is expected to take place at about 11:00pm EDT, to be transmitted to the ground live on PAO TV.   Soyuz CDR Kaleri will then install the interface-rigidizing SSVP BZV clamps (with thrusters disabled from 9:45pm-11:50pm).   The newcomers, FE-1 Alex Kaleri, FE-2 Oleg Skripochka & FE-3 Scott Kelly, then join CDR Douglas Wheelock, FE-5 Fyodor Yurchikhin & FE-6 Shannon Walker for the obligatory Safety Briefing, to familiarize them with procedures and escape routes in case of an emergency.    [For Skripochka, it is the first spaceflight, for Kelly, who flew on STS-103/HubbleRepair & STS-118, it is the 3rd, and for Kaleri, past crewmember of ISS Expedition 8 and Mir expeditions 11, 22 & 28, it is the 5th.]   Other pre-sleeptime activities by the (now six) crewmembers will include –  Scott Kelly & Alex      Kaleri preparing their CQs (Crew Quarters) in Node-2 and JPM (JEM      Pressurized Module) respectively (e.g., inspection, cleaning as required,      retrieving clothing & sleeping bag CTBs, installing sleeping bag on      wall, setting up personal effect, etc.), Kaleri deactivating his      docked Soyuz TMA-01M “orbitalniy      polyot” (spacecraft), Walker –  removing the Russian/US       video “scheme” equipment,  turning the ham/amateur       radio equipment back on,  verifying USOS shutters       closed for the IWIS (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System) thruster       test on 10/11 (~4:20am), and  conducting another camera       setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5)       with Sample 7, and  Fyodor setting up the      three Sokol      spacesuits and their gloves for drying out, Wheels –  setting EDR & KUBIK       Drawer to Standby for installation of seven PADIAC ECs (Experiment       Containers) in KUBIK 6 and initiating PADIAC for the long run, installing one control       PADIAC EC into KUBIK 3, removing the control EC       and installing seven ECs into KUBIK 3, and transferring one       short-run PADIAC EC to the BLB TCU2 (Biolab Thermal Control Unit 2).  The       second transfer, of 6 ECs, will be conducted by Wheels tomorrow during       sleeptime at ~1:30pm EDT.     Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Five -- Week 2).  2-D NANO Template (JAXA):     No report.   3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     “Thank you Shannon for helping to power-cycle ALTEA on 10/1.  This initially allowed to recover the 2 SDU and all 6 detectors were again measuring.  However on 10/2, 4 of the SDU's showed out-of-limit signals and subsequently the science data and later also the H&S data were lost.  Upon loss of H&S data, it was decided to switch off ALTEA on 10/4.  The issue is currently under investigation.”  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):     “First, kudos Shannon Walker, astronaut extraordinaire.  We are so grateful and impressed by your problem solving ingenuity.  Using the TVIS magnet to get BCAT going again was brilliant and the pictures we are getting are “just great” (to quote the PI).  Thank you.  Second, the science we’re seeing is really exciting.  Phase separation is occurring, as well as crystallization.  The samples are now at about the point where, if history repeats itself, crystallization will arrest phase separation.  Sample 6 stopped phase separating at the 1 mm length scale (and the sample depth is 4mm).  Being able to inhibit phase separation has significant industrial applications, like extending product shelf-life.  This competition between phase separation and crystallization may also be responsible for bio-mineralization (e.g., as in sea shells) and defects that occur in plastics during product formation.  Now that BCAT is showing us that crystallization may inhibit phase separation, our scientists are becoming aware of theorists that support this possibility. “  BIOLAB (ESA):    Tests continue on BIOLAB, with a TCU (Thermal Control Unit) test on 10/1-2 in preparation for the PADIAC experiment, and with a BIOLAB EC (Experiment Container) Temperature test for Rotor A on 10/5-6.  The cartridges which were used for the TCU test were retrieved on 10/7 to empty the TCU’s for PADIAC experiment containers.  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.   BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):     “A crew conference was held with Shannon on 10/.4 to go over some changes/improvements in the camera set-up for CFE-2.  On 10/5, Shannon was able to complete 3 pre-wetted surface tests and 3 bubble shake tests with the ICF1 unit.  The PI was able to review the tape playback later in the week, and the preliminary results look great!  Thanks, Shannon for your efforts in performing these CFE-2 operations and helping us work out the optimum setup with the G1 camera (new to us).  This completes the full science test matrix for the ICF1 unit, but the PI has identified 2 additional "extra science" runs that we hope to get in at the next operations opportunity for CFE-2.”  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    On 10/6, several test points were successfully performed (two were from the science matrix) as part of the (MDCA-FLEX (Multi-User Droplet Combustion Apparatus - Flame Extinguishment Experiment) in the CIR.  All test points were performed with heptane fuel at a 1.0 atm chamber environment of 24% O2, 20% CO2, and 56% N2.  Additional test points were performed to use the remaining heptane fuel in preparation for replacement of both fuel reservoirs.  This chamber environment and test point parameters were chosen based on past test points to provide additional data demonstrating the phenomena under investigation.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.   CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    No report.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    “The DSI-S2 run started on 10/4.  For the moment, we have conducted two solidifications of the 18 that are scheduled.”   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (Active Measure, ESA):     Science data acquisition with DOSTEL2 detector only.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA): (Kids in Space):   No report.   EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    No report.  . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.  EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    No report.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    No report.  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET-2 (JAXA):   Sixth run was completed on 10/6.  FERULATE (JAXA):    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):   “Wheels: Thank you for all your hard work installing the PACE (Preliminary Advanced Colloids Experiment) in the FIR on 10/7.  We are excited to begin PACE operations.  The team is also looking forward to returning the CVB (Constrained Vapor Bubble module 40mm) on ULF5, which you removed prior to PACE installation.”  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    A file with MVIS (Microgravity Vibration Insulation System) data was finally downlinked on 10/4.  This could not be done earlier due to problems with the FSL VMU (Video Management Unit).  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.   HAIR (JAXA):   No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 1793 images have been taken to date.  A survey of the payload was successfully performed on 10/4 using the SSRMS. Real-time review of video data shows the HICO lens, star tracker, and external surfaces are all healthy with no visible degradation after 1 year on-orbit.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     No report.   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     Successful contact with University of Western Australia performed by Shannon Walker.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:     All runs are completed and videos look great!  Thanks to everyone for doing a great job on these student-designed experiments!!   KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Acquiring science data in JAXA’s Kibo.  Marangoni Exp (JAXA):   The cassette is now installed in FPEF for experiment planned to start on week 5 (week of 10/25).   Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    Marangoni cassette leak check was completed on 10/8.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    New X-ray nova, named MAXI J166659-152 was detected on 9/25.  X-ray brightening was seen on the light curve data chart on telemetry.  This detection is consistent with the same-day detection by the Swift Burst Alert Telescope.  Source has continued to brighten since the initial observation.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally and all Science data continues to be downlinked.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.   MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   Caldwell, Wheelock, and Walker performed on 8/30.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.   NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   The ground preparation of the PADIAC Experiment Containers in Baikonur has been completed successfully on 10/6 with the loading of the T-cells into the culture chambers of the hardware and assembly of the experiment units, after the activator and fixative were already loaded the day before.  The EC’s were installed in the soft pouches with the PCM's for handover and installation in the Soyuz 24S for launch.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    PCG had arrived with 39P, has been installed in the PCRF and experimenting is going on nominally.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    “Wheels, thanks for your participation in your FD120 session.  Your diet log file and pH log photo have been received on the ground.  Your last Pro K session will be the FD180 session.”  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Wheels and Shannon, thank you for participating in Reaction Self Test! You will continue your sleep shift sequence for Reaction Self Test through 10/15.”  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report.   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    The experiment (observation) has been resumed from 8/23.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Shannon & Wheels, your Sleep logging is planned to begin on 10/11.”  SMILES (JAXA):    No report.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):     The additional runs started on 9/30 and apart from one run were completed on 10/5.  The SODI-COLLOID hardware was supposed to be de-installed on 10/6, but was delayed.  It is being investigated to execute this last run and finish all the complementary runs before the delayed de-installation.  The science team indicated that with the longer runs at the aggregation temperature, they are now observing reproducible data.  Furthermore, based on the first preliminary results they are hoping to find an average size of the aggregates and a fractal dimension (*) that fit all the obtained power spectra (per cell and per temperature).  Additionally, they reported to be able to see a difference in the generation radius of the formed aggregates for the different cells and are hopeful to be able to conclude on a physical mechanism that causes this difference in size.  (*) fractal dimension is a kind of measure to describe how good particles fill the space around them; for example when a medium has a fractal dimension of 3 it is a solid, while a typical value for a colloid aggregate is 2.1.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   The next Sun visibility window #33 started on 10/4.  Both SOLACES and SOLSPEC are acquiring science data.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.   Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    "Shannon, this week we had a very successful test session.  The tests you conducted helped three different master's thesis at MIT and the Florida Institute of Technology.  This session also: helped complete research waiting since January, continued our efforts to identify Fluid Slosh, and opened new research areas on human-in-the-loop controls.  Thank you for all the time you spent with SPHERES!  We’ve included additional information about the tests you performed:  First, you need to know that our SPHERES Test Plans are developed with optimistic expectations—that things go very smoothly.  That way, if the session does progress well, we are able to take full advantage of all the time allotted.  However, we realize things do not always go as expected.  Therefore, the “Group Success Markers” identified on the SPHERES Test Plans are in place to help identify a minimum, yet successful, level of testing for each group.  Therefore, from this week's session:  Group A: Successfully complete. No need to run Tests 9/10/11. If the data indicates further testing is needed, they will be incorporated into a future test session as a normal part of the iterative research of SPHERES.   Group B: Successfully complete. The essential data (up to Test 4) were obtained.  The only missing test was Test 7, beyond the group success mark (meaning the group was successful).  The data obtained are expected to provide enough information for the team to proceed with the next level of complexity in human-machine-interaction tests.  Group D: Not run.  We will evaluate when the next time 3-sat tests can be run, and run it as a single group or incorporate it into a larger group of 3-sat tests.  These tests have been ""waiting"" since 2009, but are not time-critical.  They will help produce journal publications, but they do not affect student graduations or contracts."  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Thanks Wheels, for your 4th data collection for the THERMOLAB experiment during the VO2max protocol!”  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   “Shannon, thank you for completing the first of two blood draws for Vascular.”  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):     The troubleshooting activity on 9/30 to establish communication between the new receiver and the ERNObox was not successful.  Data is currently not being acquired.  This payload successfully acquired data for the last 4 months using the previous receiver. Problem is under investigation.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    Acquiring data. Command list file uplink performed on 9/1.  VO2max (NASA):    “Wheels, congratulations on another successful VO2max session on Monday!  Thank you for completing the hardware setup on Friday.  Your dedication to the study is much appreciated by the team.  Data analysis will begin soon.  Thanks again!”  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    Through 10/5, the ground has received a total of 374 frames of Exp-25 CEO imagery for review and cataloging.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following targets with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists:  the Great Dike of Zimbabwe - excellent mapping session - under evaluation; Dili, East Timor - target located in single frame, but too cloudy;  and Mount Rainier, WA - excellent, detailed mapping session acquired - under evaluation for completion of requirements.  We feel obliged to report that your efforts to acquire our target, Volcan Colima, Mexico on GMT Day 274 instead netted a detailed mapping set of a peak west of Guadalajara known as Volcan Tequila!  Perhaps it was the blue agave that caught your eye?  A striking panoramic view of the Southwestern USA from Increment 24 was published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  This grand view included such well-known features as the Grand Canyon, Las Vegas, the Salton Sea, the Sierra Nevada, and the Central Valley of California.  Besides highlighting the majestic Basin and Range Province of North America, it beautifully illustrates the distinct, oblique viewing capabilities of hand-held photography.  Nice shot!”   CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Nouakchott, Mauritania (near-nadir approach.  Looking near the coast.  The airport runway is aligned with the NE winds and long dunes.  General images of this capital city were requested), Chiloe Island, southern Chile (looking left.  Darwin visited several places on this big island, which is one of the wettest places in South America.  On 21 Nov 1834, Darwin wrote “Considering the time of year, with almost constant Southerly winds, our passage was a pretty good one. — The island wore quite a pleasing aspect, with the sun shining brightly on the patches of cleared ground & dusky green woods.  At night however we were convinced that it was Chiloe, by torrents of rain & a gale of wind.”  At 190 km in length, the island is the largest in its group), and Kilauea Volcano, HI (Dynamic event.  Current alert level is “watch.”  Some activity has been documented in the last few days.  Looking left on the southeast coast of the big island for this classic shield volcano [so named because of their large size and low profile, as compared with smaller, conical stratovolcanoes]).  