10-04-2010October 04, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/04/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       Underway: Week 2 of Increment 25.  At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Yurchikhin’s morning inspection today included the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM (Service Module) on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.   FE-6 Walker performed a new session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Walker also began her third (FD/Flight Day 120) NUTRITION/Repository/Pro K generic blood collection, with CDR Wheelock assisting with the phlebotomy as operator.  Shannon then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).     [The operational products for Blood & Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]  Shannon’s 24-hr urine collections of the Generic HRF (Human Research Facility) urine sampling protocol ended on or around ~2:30am EDT.  For wrapping it up, FE-6 took photographs of the filled out log sheets for downlink.  Her next NUTRITION/Repository/Pro K activity will be her FD180 session.  Doug Wheelock started his FD120 NUTRITION/Repository/Pro K 24-hr urine collections.  His Pro K controlled diet session and diet logging (his 4th) closes out tonight at ~6:45pm.  Fyodor Yurchikhin initiated the discharge/charge cycle on two NiMH (Nickel Metal Hydride) batteries for the Russian BMD (Biomedical Device) PZE STIMUL-01 payload in the payload’s charger device, in preparation for his upcoming physical stimulation/conditioning training with the device.   [The neuromuscular myostimulator suit STIMUL-01, which uses electrical stimulation to contract and relax leg muscle fibers for conditioning, is part of the suite of BMS (Biomedical Support) systems under development at the Moscow IBMP (Institute for Biomedical Problems) for long-duration spaceflights including piloted Mars missions.]   Afterwards, FE-5 performed major (~3h) IFM/Inflight Maintenance on the SM ASU toilet facility behind panels 137, 138 & 139, changing out replaceable parts with new components, such as a receptacle, hoses, a T-connector, an elbow fitting, etc.  All old parts were discarded as trash.  Later, Fyodor completed the periodic refresh of the IUS AntiVirus program in the Russian VKS auxiliary (non-network) laptops RSS1, RSK1, RSK2, RSE1, which are not loaded from the ground, from a special software program working with Norton AV on the FS (File Server) laptop, first scanning the latter, then transferring the database by flash-card to the other computers and scanning them one by one.     [Only the RSS2 laptop is automatically updated (once a week on Fridays from MCC-Houston).]  Doug Wheelock set up & prepared the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), including MBS (Mixing Bag System), for his 4th session with the VO2max assessment, integrated with Thermolab.  After concluding without issues, Wheels downloaded the data, including Thermolab, to a PCS (Portable Computer System) laptop, powered down, cleaned up and temporarily moved all hardware aside for subsequent crew operation (except for MBS which was fully stowed).      [The experiment VO2max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% & 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]  In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Walker activated the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) in support of ground-commanded payload activities.  Later, working in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Shannon configured the already installed BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) hardware.  This included setting up the EarthKAM (EK) DCS 760 Digital Still Camera (without EK) linked to an SSC (Station Support Computer with KODAK Camera Manager software.    [First activities are focused on taking observations of CSA (Canadian Space Agency)’s BCAT-5 Samples 6 & 7 after sitting un-disturbed for about 10 months.  Actual work (mixing and subsequent observation of phase separation and crystallization on Sample 7) will begin on 10/7 (Thursday).]  Fyodor Yurchikhin did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  FE-5 also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Before his sleeptime tonight, Fyodor will activate the Kenwood D700 amateur radio station in the SM and start the program for the Russian KPT-14 SHADOW-BEACON (Tenj-Mayak) experiment for an overnight run.    [Objective of the experiment is the automatic retranslation of time tag (pre-planned executable) packets from ground stations.  SHADOW (or ECLIPSE), sponsored by Roskosmos and its leading Moscow research organization TSNIIMASH (Central Research Institute of Machine Building), employs VHF amateur radio (ham) operators around the globe (via ARISS/Amateur Radio on ISS) to help in observing refraction/scattering effects in artificial plasmas using the method of RF (radio frequency) sounding in space experiments under different geophysical conditions.  This is the experiment’s third run, after FE Yuri Malenchenko conducted it for the second time on Exp-16 in November 2007, preceded by Mikhail Tyurin on Exp-14 in November 2006.]  At ~10:40am EDT, Wheelock & Walker discussed ULF-5 prepacking requirements with ground specialist in a telecom.  Afterwards, Wheels spent ~90 min on prepacking activities for STS-133/ULF-5.  At ~2:35pm. Shannon is scheduled for a telecom with the CFE PI (Capillary Flow Experiment Principal Investigator) Dr. Mark Weislogel to discuss CFE Interior Corner Flow procedures.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6).  A new addition on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for Fyodor today was an activity for the Russian GFI-8 Uragan (“hurricane”) earth observation program, checking out a new uplinked list with 19 targets on the SIGMA application on the RSK1 laptop.  EarthKAM Update:   EarthKAM (EK/Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students) troubleshooting last week (new firmware) ran into difficulties, and camera functionality was not recovered.  EK is scheduled to operate 10/11-10/15; payload team is assessing options.  WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (25-0001) lists 122 CWCs (2,778.1 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (24 CWCs with 998.2 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 712.7 L in 17 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 128.3 L in 3 bags for flushing only with microbial filter, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (4 CWCs with 171.8 L, of which 1 bag with 42.5 L is to be used with microbial filter & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use;  3. iodinated water (84 CWCs with 1,548.2 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (37.7 L in 2 bags, with 6.3 L to be used only for OGA, plus 6 empty bags; and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (22.2 L, in 1 CWC with 20.2 L from hose/pump flush & 1 bag with 2.00 L from EMU dump).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  ATV PCE Test:    This morning at 5:50am/DO6 & 7:38am/DO8, ESA/Russia conducted more transmission testing of the ATV PCE (Automated Transfer Vehicle Proximity Communications Equipment; Russian: MBRL), checking out its carrier frequency over the ISS external WAS2 antenna from ESA ground stations Villafranca (VIL, near Madrid) and Maspalomas (MAS, Canary Islands).  Backup day for these tests: 10/6 (Wednesday).     [MBRL, in the SM, will be used for the approach & docking of the European ATV-2 “Johannes Kepler”, currently planned to be launched 2/15/2011.]  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  