
Payloads:
ISS Ham Radio: ISS Ham contact was made with Esperanza Base, Argentine Research Station in Hope Bay, Trinity Peninsula, Antarctica. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Rhodium Space Microbiome Isolates: Rhodium Space Microbiome Isolates samples were placed into MELFI and then into SABL-2 for incubation. Characterization of Targeted Space Gut Microbiome Isolates to Advance Astronaut Gut-On-A-Chip Platform Development (Rhodium Space Microbiome Isolates) characterizes individual bacterial species from the human gut microbiome that change during spaceflight. Research shows a connection between alterations in the gut microbiome and multiple chronic and acute diseases. Studies also show that changes occur in the composition and function of the gut microbiome during spaceflight. A better understanding of these changes could support development of ways to help protect people on future missions from potential negative effects.
TangoLab-3 (Mission-29): TangloLab-3 card in slot B was removed. Cube LMDA_PAR07 was placed into card S/N 19 and installed in slot B. The crew attached cube LMDA_PAR06 to card S/N 13 and it was installed into slot A. Space Tango’s TangoLab-3 locker is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development (R&D) and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS. TangoLab-3 is similar to TangoLab-1 with the primary difference being an upgraded fan system which allows for a greater heat rejection capability. This upgrade enables payloads with greater power draw and lower temperature requirements to use the facility.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): A manual fluid recovery was performed on the XROOTS facility, and the crew performed a plant check of the individual plant modules. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Crew Arrival and Departure Operations: The Crew-4 and Crew-5 crews performed several activities related to Crew-5 arrival and Crew-4 departure. Crew-5 had time dedicated to adjust and adapt to living in space. Cargo was transferred between the ISS and Dragon vehicles, and crew transferred water bottles and waste supplied between docked Dragons. Pre-gathered emergency equipment was transferred from the ISS to Crew Dragon Endurance as well as a Station Support Computer (SSC). Crew-4 crewmembers also performed departure preparations for return to Earth, such as cleaning, stowage, and inventory management.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Dragon Propellant Leak Check
SPS FCH Troubleshooting

