
P6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #2 (USOS EVA#57) Preparations: Today, the ISS crew was involved with several different preparation activities for the upcoming EVA on Friday, October 11.  The crew completed the EVA tool configuration activity.  In addition, the crew completed recharging the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) feedwater tanks with iodinated water from a Contingency Water Container (CWC).  Further preparations included completing EVA related Robotics Onboard Training (OBT) and procedure reviews.
HTV8 Cargo Operations and Transfers:  Today, the crew completed additional HTV8 cargo transfers from the HTV8 vehicle to the ISS.
ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization Onboard Training (OBT): The crew completed the Emergency Hardware OBT which is designed to familiarize the crew with the locations of equipment and the positions of valves used in emergencies as well as practice communication from the Russian Segment (RS) modules in case of emergency.
Payloads:    
Astrobee: The crew performed Astrobee battery charging for eight batteries. Astrobee is a series of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. The robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the ISS. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew-monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor: The crew performed a cabin air sample in support of the Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitoring study. The Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor investigation demonstrates the capabilities of a small, reliable, portable gas chromatograph mass spectrometer instrument aboard the International Space Station (ISS) to conduct major and minor elements of air measurement. The instrument transmits data back to the ground research team every two seconds, providing a continuous analysis to the ground research team.
Cerebral Autoregulation: The crew setup the cables and hardware for the upcoming Cerebral Autoregulation Data measurement. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space.
Veg-04B: The crew added water to the small plant pillows and took photos of each pillow. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-0404A, Veg-04B, and Veg-05) investigation is a phased research project to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the space station to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-04B focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 56-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space. 
Completed Task List Activities:

P/TV EVA GoPro Chrg

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Payload Support Operations
Mobile Servicing System EVA support

Look Ahead:
Wednesday, 10/9 (GMT 282)
Payloads:


No payload activities

Systems:

EVA Metox Regen

Thursday, 10/10 (GMT 283)
Payloads:


Cerebral Autoregulation Data measurement (JAXA)
Food Acceptability Survey (NASA)
Food Physiology Diet Briefing (NASA)
VEG-04B Water Check (NASA)
Microgravity Crystals Set C (NASA)
BEST Sample Transfer to media (NASA)

Systems:

EVA Tool Audit
EVA REBA C/O and Install
EVA LK Prep Part 2

Friday, 10/11 (GMT 284)
Payloads:


No payload activities

Systems:

P6 Battery EVA#2 (US EVA#57)

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

UF-ATMOSFERA. PL Deactivation
IMS Delta File Prep
Preparation of reports for Roscosmos website and social media
Photography of removable handrails covers inside RS
SCENARIY. Observation and photography of catastrophic events and their aftermath
Photography of space behind SM panel
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Daily Planning Conference
Photo TV Battery Charge Initiation
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuration
Replacement of SSC2 with SSC3
Cerebral Autoregulation Data Measurement Item Gathering
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Deployment Operations
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Setup
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. HAM radio session with the Amur State University students
Environmental Health System (EHS) Grab Sample Container (GSC) Sampling Operations
UF-ATMOSFERA.
Progress 442 (DC1) Cargo Transfers and IMS Ops
Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor Grab Sample Container Collection in the LAB
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Cerebral Autoregulation Equipment Setup
CARDIOMED-LBNP. CARDIOMED performance check.
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Astrobee Battery Setup
Portable Onboard Computers (POC) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software Review
Valve operation test in Valve Panel ПК3.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge
Preparation for Khladon venting and replacement of Air Conditioner 1 [СКВ1] Heat Exchanger-Evaporator (БТА).
Photo TV Battery Charge Swap
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuration
PAO hardware setup. Video/Audio check
Crew Prep for PAO
Private Medical Conference (PMC)
TV conference with Korolyov school No.15 students (Ku + S-band)
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Extended Maintenance
Crew time for ISS orientation
Astrobee Battery Swap
СОЖ Maintenance Maintenance activation of Atmosphere Purification System Emergency Vacuum Valves [АВК СОА] from the Spares Kit (004173R, ФГБ1ПГО_4_426_1 bag II-1/256-1, Case for [АВК] (007223R))
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Cerebral Autoregulation Cable Swap
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review
Crew ISS Emergency Roles/Responsivities Review
Portable Onboard Computers (POC) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software Review
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization
Comm config. OBT ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization.
OBT ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization.
Photo TV Battery Charge Deactivation
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Charging EVA Camera D4 Battery
Astrobee Battery Stow
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization
PAO Preparation
RS lighting system inventory audit in SM, MRM1, MRM2, DC1
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config Columbus Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) in Columbus
CCE Preparation
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB)/Metal Oxide (METOX) Installation
Checking Camcorder Settings
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
VIP Conference with LT General Dickinson
ROBOT Troubleshooting Support
Astrobee Status Check
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config Columbus Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) in Columbus
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Initiate
VEG-04B Plant Pillow Prime
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Initiation
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Waste Water Bag (WWB) Changeout
On-board Training (OBT) EVA Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session
HTV Transfer Operations
Private Medical Conference (Ku + S-band)

 