
Payloads
Echo Hard Drive Install: In support of Echo software update activities, the crew connected the Echo external hard drive and USB cable to SSC 11 (Station Support Computer-11).  Following this, files will be transferred to the hard drive via ground commanding.  Echo is a tele-operated ultrasound system, equipped with motorized probes that are controlled by flight controllers on the ground.
Payload NAS (Network Attached Storage) Vent Clean: As a routine maintenance activity, the crew performed a cleaning of the vents on the PL NAS system.  This is performed in order to prevent automatic shutdown of the unit due to inadequate airflow and resulting higher heat levels.  The Payload NAS is a file server with five hard drive bays that provides a total of twenty terabytes of raw disk space when used with four terabyte hard drives.  Among other capabilities, the PL NAS supports user file transfers from their machine via web browser, and allows onboard ISS systems to access a shared folder location on the NAS.
Robo-Pro Checkout: As a continuation of the preparation and checkout for the upcoming Robo-Pro Challenge, Astrobee movement related to set point 1, set point 2, and other tags/targets was tested.  The Kibo Robot Programming Challenge (Robo-Pro Challenge), also known as Kibo-RPC or Robo-Pro, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the International Space Station (ISS). This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers. This activity is based on Japan-U.S. cooperation through the Japan-US Open platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3).
Systems
Cygnus Arrival Preparations: Today, the ISS crew calibrated the external cameras utilized by the Robotic Work Station (RWS) video overlays in preparation for Cygnus vehicle capture. The crew also relocated two Space Station Computers (SSC)s and cables that provide command redundancy during NG-14 rendezvous operations. Currently, the Cygnus Northrop Grumman (NG)-14 vehicle is scheduled to launch this evening at 8:16 pm CT and arrive to the ISS on October 5th. Last night’s launch attempt was scrubbed due to an issue with ground support equipment at the launch pad that has since been resolved.
Cygnus Cargo Review & Conference: In preparation for NG-14 arrival, the crew reviewed cargo ops products prior to a cargo conference with ground specialists. The conference is an opportunity to discuss a high-level overview of the required cargo transfer associated with the vehicle. Cygnus capture and berthing is planned for October 5th, with an ISS/Cygnus rendezvous time of 4:20 am CT.
Cygnus On-Board Training (OBT): The crew spent their morning participating in a robotics OBT session in preparation for NG-14. Today’s session was the second in a series of Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) sessions designed to help the crew maintain their training proficiency. The ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback.  
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: Crew performed an analysis of the water processing assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Completed Task List Activities:

Crew Quarters Vent Clear

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Astrobee Operations


Node 3 MCA Unpower


ETVCG Light Troubleshooting per CHIT 19033 (on-going)

