10-06-2009October 06, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/06/09  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Stott, FE-4 Thirsk, FE-5 De Winne & FE-5-21 Williams continued their week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Jeff’s first, logging data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Frank De Winne performed the final part (3rd of 3) of the periodic acoustic measurement protocol by recording post-sleep data of the crew-worn acoustic dosimeters.   [Romanenko’s dosimeter did not record data overnight; his overnight data take will be repeated tonight.]   FE-3 Romanenko’s first job in the morning was to inspect the BFK Command Generator in the SM (Service Module) food ration locker (panel 245), taking photographs with the NIKON D2X camera, to record the condition of the box, its connectors and the possible presence of moisture.  Afterwards, Romanenko assisted FE-1-21 Maxim Suraev in his first onboard session with the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment after setting up the workplace and equipment.  Afterwards, the Pilot-M & Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled and stowed away, and Suraev later reported to TsUP-Moscow on his run.  Roman took documentary photography.    [MBI-15 requires the Multipurpose Hardware Bench as a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO & RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) with software (v. 2.0) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.]  Nicole Stott began her second ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, assisted by Frank as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) in preparing electrode sites, attaching the harness and donning the Cardiopres.     [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist & ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Nicole started the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]  FE-1 Barratt completed Day 2 of the ESA cardiological experiment CARD (Long Term Microgravity: A Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease), closing out the 24-hr urine collection protocol, performing the first rebreathing session and completing the blood draw in two tubes which he then centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge).  For the session, he activated the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop.  Afterwards, Barratt stowed the PFS (Pulmonary Function System) and saved all the HLTA BP (Holter Arterial Blood Pressure) data.     [After the second centrifugation, the two tubes were placed into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for the ISS) at -80 degC.  CARD includes three double rebreathing sessions yesterday plus two double rebreathings today with the 4L Re-breathing Bag.  Between these two rebreathings, the CDL HTA was activated to take BP measurements.   CARD was performed last by Japanese crewmember Koichi Wakata in May 2009.  Astronauts experience lowered blood volume and pressure during space missions due to relaxation of the cardiovascular system in microgravity which may be a result from decreased fluid and sodium in the body.  CARD examines the relationship between salt intake and the cardiovascular system when exposed to the microgravity environment and explores whether blood pressure & volume can be restored to the same levels that were measured during groundbased measurements by adding additional salt to the crew’s food.  Results from this may lead to new health safety measures for astronauts to protect them on long duration missions.]  Later, the FE-1 disconnected the ESA MPPLL (Multipurpose Laptop) 16VDC power cable from the EPM laptop and reconnected it to the MPPLL.  For Padalka & Romanenko, assisted by Suraev, it was time again for recharging the Motorola Iridium-9505A satellite phones located in Soyuz TMA-14/18S & TMA-15/19S, a monthly routine job and Gennady’s sixth, Roman’s second, Maxim’s first time.      [After retrieving them from their location in the spacecraft Descent Modules (BO), the crewmembers initiated the recharge of the lithium-ion batteries, monitoring the process every 10-15 minutes as it took place.  Upon completion, the phones were returned inside their SSSP Iridium kits and stowed back in the BO’s operational data files (ODF) container.  The satphone accompanies returning ISS crews on Soyuz reentry & landing for contingency communications with SAR (Search-and-Rescue) personnel after touchdown (e.g., after an “undershoot” ballistic reentry, as happened during the 15S return).  The Russian-developed procedure for the monthly recharging has been approved jointly by safety officials.  During the procedure, the phone is left in its fire-protective fluoroplastic bag with open flap.  The Iridium 9505A satphone uses the Iridium constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to relay the landed Soyuz capsule's GPS (Global Positioning System) coordinates to helicopter-borne recovery crews.  The older Iridium-9505 phones were first put onboard Soyuz in August 2003.  The newer 9505A phone, currently in use, delivers 30 hours of standby time and three hours of talk, up from 20 and two hours, respectively, on the older units.]  The FE-3 performed routine maintenance on the KN & VK valves of the Rodnik water system in the SM.  Later, Roman & Maxim conducted the periodic transfer of U.S. condensate water from CWCs (Collapsible Water Containers, #1021/3L, #1073) to the RS (Russian Segment) for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, filling the designated KOV EDV container.  Once filled, the EDV will be connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.]  Suraev also undertook the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways.  Romanenko did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  The FE-3 also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Using the CMS (Countermeasure System), a component of the SKDS GANK-4M suite, Roman & Max performed the standard check on the SM cabin air for Vinyl Chloride, Ethanol, and Ethylene Oxide.   [CMS uses preprogrammed microchips to measure for numerous contaminants such as O-Xylol (1,2-Dimethylbenzol, C8H10), Hydrogen Chloride (HCl), Formaldehyde, Isopropanol, Methanol, Toluene, Mercaptan, Sulphur dioxide, Hydrogen cyanide, Phosgene, etc.],  Jeff Williams had ~15 min set aside for re-familiarization with the hardware and protocol of the CEVIS cycle ergometer.  Afterwards, to make room in the Lab for the subsequent MSRR outfitting work, Jeff temporarily moved the CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization) out of the way by disconnecting its frame and isolators from the rack.  Frank De Winne later re-installed and re-connected it.  Frank, with Jeff taking still & video imagery, worked on the new MSRR-1 (Materials Science Research Rack 1), reconfiguring it for commissioning, after its installation in the U.S. Lab by De Winne & Fuglesang during the last Shuttle mission.     [Frank & Jeff removed launch hardware and rotated the rack to loosen launch bolts prior to reconfiguring the in-rack stowage from launch.  MSRR-1 supports basic materials research in the micro-G environment.  The sophisticated rack can accommodate and support diverse EMs (Experiment Modules) so that many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.]  FE-4 Thirsk continued his work in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), setting up the FPEF MS (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility/Marangoni Surface) equipment for more ground (SSIPC)-controlled operations of the Marangoni convection experiment.    [Today, Bob installed the MS Cassette and Core in the FPEF MS Body, after performing a leak check.  More work tomorrow.  In microgravity, fluids react differently to stresses when compared to the same stresses on Earth.  Understanding the responses to the stressors allows for improved fluid flow models to be designed.  Mass transfer on or in a liquid due to surface tension differences is called the Marangoni Effect (which, for example, stabilizes a soap film).  The Marangoni convection experiment in the FPEF examines fluid tension flow in micro-G:  first, a liquid bridge of silicone oil is formed into a pair of disks.  Then, using temperature differences imposed on the disks, convection is induced causing the silicone oil to move and transition through different types of flows because of its fluid instability: successively from laminar to oscillatory, chaos, and turbulence flows as the driving force increases.  The flow and temperature fields are observed in each stage and the transition conditions and processes are investigated.]  Also in Kibo, FE-2 Stott set up & installed the plant unit case for the JAXA “Dewey’s Forest” payload, for which she had placed four bags of samples in the MELFI on 9/30 for thermal preservation while on ISS.    [Dewey’s Forest, one of the Japanese educational payloads, is intended to show how gravity controls the laws of nature and influences our ways of thinking. The project is a catalyst to rediscover our relationship with plants on the ground and the age-old history of our gardens.]  Nicole also conducted the periodic WPA (Water Processor Assembly) sample analysis in the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.  After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged for calldown.   [The current procedure is a work-around for TOCA’s failed catalyst.]  Barratt serviced the TOCA by performing the standard changeout of its WWB (Waste Water Bag).  Nicole & Jeff had ~1:10h set aside for continuing cargo transfers from the HTV (H-II Transfer Vehicle) to the ISS and trash in the reverse direction, followed by a 15-min debriefing/bookkeeping tagup with ground specialists.  CDR Padalka re-checked connections done on 10/3, when he had switched RF antenna feeder cables of the KURS-P (passive) automated radar approach & docking system from SM +Y port to SM –Y port, to support DC-1 ops.  Afterwards, Gennady performed periodic service on the SM’s ASU toilet facility, changing out the pretreat container (E-K) with its hose.    [E-K contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H2SO4 (sulfuric acid), CrO3 (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple color), and H2O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed with water in a dispenser (DKiV) and used for toilet flushing.]  In the SM, the CDR worked ~2 hrs on a laptop upgrade.    [Gennady first transitioned the A31p laptop #1157 (which he set up yesterday with the HDD/Hard Disk Drive from RS1 #1145) to new software (vers. 08.03), then replaced the RS3 laptop with the new machine and tested it, using the KTsP1 (CPC1/Central Post Computer 1) and its Laptop 1 for the test.  Nominal ops meanwhile were served by KTsP2 & Laptop 2.]  Jeff Williams continued the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) refitting work of installing a Russian EDV-U container in the WHC so that the processing of Russian urine goes directly through the U.S. UPA (Urine Processing Assembly).     [Yesterday, the UPA quantity was processed down to the 2% level which is required to manipulate the UPA QDs (Quick Disconnects) at the RIP (Rack Interface Panel).  Today, Jeff installed a PTU-T (Pre-Treat Urine-Tee) transfer hose  which allows the EDV-Us to be hooked up to the UPA without having to manage the safety constraints associated with disconnecting the WHC from the UPA every time, providing more flexibility in the crew’s ability to process urine from both USA and RS sources.  The plan is now to transfer pre-treated urine from Russian EDV-Us into the UPA each morning for about 5 minutes.  This is the first time Russian urine has been processed in the UPA since the completion of the UPA checkouts.]  In the A/L (Airlock), as well as Node-1 & -2, Williams restowed some of the EVA tools that were required for quick response EVA scenarios during HTV (H-II Transfer Vehicle) arrival.    [The remainder of the EVA tools will stay deployed until the possibility of an HTV spacewalk is past.]  Jeff also terminated discharge of EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) batteries set up in the A/L BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly) and initiated the process on the second battery set, using BC4 (Battery Charger 4) for maintenance requirements and stowage.  Nicole spent some time in the “Quest” A/L for an inspection of SCUs (Servicing & Cooling Umbilicals) and the electrical connector O-rings of EMUs #3006, #3009 & #3011.    [Post-flight inspections have found damage to the O-ring on two EMU electrical connector modules.  One O-ring was slightly damaged (STS-128), one missing (STS-127).  The concern is that there may be a sharp edge on one of the SCUs in the A/L that is causing this damage.  The O-ring prevents moisture from entering the electrical connector in the event of a leak from the adjacent water connections on the suit/connector interface.  Nicole was to look for burrs on the SCUs and any damage on the three O-rings.]  Immediately before bedtime, the FE-5-21 will perform his third session with the Reaction Self Test on an A31p laptop (#1108 at Lab1O5) containing the appropriate software.    [The activity involves answering pre-test questions, testing reaction time, and providing performance feedback.]  CDR, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-1-21, FE-5-21 & VC-17 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Frank at ~4:15am, Guy at ~4:20am, Roman at ~8:25am, Gennady at ~8:45am, Bob at ~12:15pm, Max at ~1:35pm & Jeff at ~2:00pm  EDT.  At ~8:15am, Frank De Winne performed the EPO-3 (Education Program Operation 3) demo on the ESA Livelink event, for ~350 10-12 year old children in Brussels, Belgium.  Special recognition was given to Benedetto Lui, a 14-year old boy from Italy, winner of the ESA-UNICEF water competition.    [With Bob Thirsk acting as camera operator, Frank used water samples taken from the MELFI cooler to demonstrate micro-G, water behavior (polarization, buoyancy, solubility) and then conducted a Q&A session.]  At ~2:10pm, Frank closed the protective shutters of the Lab & JPM science windows, to protect preparation against jet plume contaminants during (and for two orbits after) tomorrow’s Soyuz 18S thruster test firing.    [The Russian thruster tests are scheduled at 4:49am-5:04am EDT.]  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3), and ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5).  At ~9:55am, all crewmembers joined up in Node-2 “Harmony” to participate in three live PAO TV interviews of ~10 min each with (1) U.S. media at NASA centers, (2) Canadian media at CSA (Canadian Space Agency) Headquarters in St. Hubert, Quebec, and ESA/German ZDF Television at ZDF Studios in Mainz, Germany (Claus Kleber).  Science Activity Milestone:   For the first time, there are seven simultaneously active NASA payload racks aboard ISS, growing to 11, possibly 12 racks this week.  As part of early utilization, over 400 experiments have been conducted on the ISS (all partners), i.e., over 9 years of continuous research.  Red Nose in Orbit:   Guy and Cirque du Soleil are planning a 2-hour live broadcast on Friday, 10/9, while he is on ISS.  It will string together live broadcasts from sites around the world.  NASA and Cirque du Soleil have signed a unique MOU (Memorandum of Understanding) for this Soyuz visiting crew.  NASA will participate in this broadcast event, supporting video recording on orbit, and helping get the NASA messages about ISS and Exploration integrated into the event and the attendant publicity.  It may possibly be picked up by broadcast TV.  Information about the webcast is available through this link: http://www.spaceadventures.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=news.viewnews&newsid=729  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Yellow River Delta, China (looking to the E-NE of the orbit track for this highly dynamic delta.  Increases in delta size and the shifting position of the river mouth have been documented with handheld imagery over the last two decades), Super Typhoon Melor, Pacific Ocean (Guam and Saipan were spared from Super Typhoon Melor's full strength, missing the 167 mph winds and 200 mph wind gusts at its center.  So far the forecast track will take Melor east of Tokyo.  In the short-term Melor is expected to continue to track northwestward and intensify.  Looking south of the orbital track to see this large typhoon), East Haruj Megafans, Libya (looking to the left of track for this megafan complex, bordered by dark volcanic rocks to the NW and a large dune field to the SE.  The megafans are comprised of sinuous criss-crossing dry river channels.  Overlapping oblique mapping frames, taken parallel to the orbit track, may highlight subtle surface features of the megafans), and West Point, NY (although the weather at this site was predicted to be somewhat marginal the decision was to include it in today’s target list since it was thought the crew was probably interested in making the attempt.  West Point is located north of the village of Highland Falls in Orange County, New York, to the west of the Hudson River).  CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  