
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES)-Slosh: FE-6 configured the SPHERES-Slosh experiment setup using two SPHEREs satellites and the slosh assembly. With ground team support, the crew executed off of the predetermined test matrix.  The SPHERES-Slosh investigation examines the way liquids move inside containers in a microgravity environment. The phenomena and mechanics associated with such liquid movement are still not well understood and are very different than our common experiences with a cup of coffee on Earth. Rockets deliver satellites to space using liquid fuels as a power source, and this investigation plans to improve our understanding of how propellants within rockets behave in order to increase the safety and efficiency of future vehicle designs.
Circadian Rhythms: FE-5 doffed the Thermolab hardware and downloaded the data following a three-day session for Circadian Rhythms. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crew members’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crew members’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crew members.
Human Research Facility (HRF) Ultrasound Status: Specialists were unable to retrieve all of the data from CDR’s Fluid Shifts Baseline Imaging session.  FE-5 relocated a memory stick to the HRF laptop for ground controllers to downlink and evaluate.  This weekend the crew is scheduled to upgrade the software on the backup HRF Ultrasound to support the noninvasive venous pressure measurements required for FE-5’s Fluid Shifts Baseline Imaging session scheduled for Wednesday. 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) Operations: Today, the crew demated the connection between the Fluid Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) and PCPA at Quick Disconnect 27 (QD27), which is located on the PCPA. This will help to determine if the FCPA is the source of the high conductivity seen in the UPA distillate. 
Emergency Response On-Board Training (OBT):  All three crewmembers participated in an OBT session covering response in the event of a rapid depress, fire or ammonia emergency.  This review specifically was a refresher of planned responses to these scenarios during a 3-crew period. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

URAGAN. Observation and photography
EKON-M. Observations and photography
Multi Omics Saliva Operations
Multi Omics Saliva sample MELFI Insertion
Multi Omics Question
ENERGY Diet Log of Breakfast
Ultrasound 2 HRF USB Drive Relocate
IMS Tagup
MSPR Combustion Chamber (CC) pressure gause check and Valve Operations.
SPHERES Battery Stow
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain
PILOT-T. Preparation for the experiment.
Recycle Tank Drain to EDV
Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ)
Tropical Cyclone Hardware Closeout
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops.
Circadian Rhythms Instrumentation
Circadian Rhythms Downlink
ENERGY Water Sample
PILOT-T. Closeout Ops.
Energy Urine Sample Collection
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
СОЖ Maintenance
SPHERES Test Session Setup
MSPR Combustion Chamber (CC) pressure gauge check and Valve Operations.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
MSPR /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Deactivation
ENERGY Diet Log of Lunch
SPHERES Slosh Run
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) QD27 Demate
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter initialization and deployment for exposure
MELFI Ice Brick Insert
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
РК4 Experiment Campaign 3 Familiarization
SPHERES Test Session Shutdown
Ultrasound 2 HRF USB Drive Relocate 2
Long Duration Sorbent Testbed Status Check.
SPHERES Slosh USB Download
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
OBT Emergency Delta Review
ENERGY Diet Log of Dinner

Completed Task List Items

CWC-I Trash Gather Part 1
CSL-6 Reload
Mouse Epigenetics Item Consolidation
JAXA Report Part 7

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Battery 4B2 Reconditioning
SPHERES-SLOSH

