
Payloads:
Cool Flames Investigation with Gases:  A crewmember replaced the bottle in CIR Manifold #4 with 100 percent C4H10 (Butane).  Cool diffusion flames were discovered during droplet combustion experiments aboard the ISS in 2012, and this initiated a rapidly growing field of combustion research.  A cool flame is one that burns at about 600 degrees Celsius.  A typical candle is about two times hotter, burning at around 1,400 degrees Celsius.  Most internal combustion engines are designed using computer models that neglect cool flame chemistry, but ignition and flame propagation in engines depend on cool flame chemistry. Cool flame chemistry also has a significant impact on fuel octane and cetane numbers, whose understanding has large economic consequences.
FLUIDICS:  A crewmember installed the Fluidics Payload in the Columbus module and performed Science Run #1.  The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
Rodent Research-Demonstration 1 (RR-D1):  A crewmember performed cleanup procedures for the Life Science Glovebox that was used for Rodent Research operations.  Rodent Research-Demonstration 1 (RR-D1) validates equipment and procedures for surgical techniques related to the wound healing process.  Normal skin function and wound healing are important for maintaining good health, but spaceflight may impair healing of wounds in astronauts.  Results from this investigation are intended to support design of a subsequent study on the effects of spaceflight on wound healing.
TELe-Luminescence Analysis System (TELLAS):  A crewmember installed hardware equipment in preparation of TELLA operations.  TELLA is an experimental facility that uses luminescence and an imager to make observations of tissues/genes in small living animals. Such in-vivo observations facilitate the study of mechanisms related to aging in the microgravity environment. Installed in the Kibo module, the TELLAS facility can provide information that contributes to aging research and improves the health and longevity of people on Earth.
Systems:
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Maintenance: Today, the crew swapped the EMUs that are installed in the equipment lock in preparation for next week’s loop scrub. The crew also performed a Water Line Vent Tube Assembly (WLVTA) R&R on EMU 3004.
Photo/TV SAW Mast Starboard Survey: The crew completed a photo survey of the starboard solar array masts by capturing a series of images from the MRM2 starboard window of all four starboard mast structures and blankets. These images will provide the ground with an opportunity to review new and old damage to the mast structures. The ground is working on a plan to quantify and mitigate the risk of solar array mast structural failure due to Micro Meteoroid Orbital Debris (MMOD).
LAB1D2 JSL Router Deploy:  The crew installed the Joint Station LAN (JSL) Router and associated hardware into the Avionics #3 (AV-3) rack in the US Lab. The procedure included installation of the router and mounting hardware as well as a new interface panel and rack closeout panel. The crew connected the minimum amount of cabling needed to power the router and provide Ethernet connection for the purpose of performing a router checkout.
Completed Task List Activities:

ESA-PAO FRANCE24 E5

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

DDCU S02B 50Hz Data Dump
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Robotics Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) Stow
Node 1 fan speed test day 1
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Maneuver
RELL Stow into RiTS

