
Treadmill 2 (T2) Status:  Over the weekend, the Crew completed the last set of closeout activities in order to restore T2 operations. T2 had experienced connectivity issues between the Station Support Computer (SSC) and the T2 Rack on September 22nd. After extensive troubleshooting by Crew and ground teams, it was determined that a change out of the system’s Data Avionic Unit (DAU) was needed. The DAU change out occurred on September 27th. After the change out, approximately 10 hours of closeout activities remained to restore T2 operations. During the timeframe when T2 was inoperable, the Crew exercised on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).
Zebrafish Muscle: Gerst performed the third water quality measurement of the aquarium water.  This experiment asks if the atrophy of muscles under the condition of microgravity also occurs in zebrafish and why their atrophy occurs in the microgravity.
Salivary Markers:  Wilmore provided saliva, urine, and blood samples and stored them in cold stowage for the Salivary Markers investigation.  The Effects of Long-Term Exposure to Microgravity on Salivary Markers of Innate Immunity (Salivary Markers) investigation involves the collection of blood, saliva, urine and a health assessment on six subjects pre-, in- and post-flight to determine if spaceflight induced immune system dysregulation increases infection susceptibility or poses a significant health risk to crewmembers onboard the ISS.
Drug Metabolism: Gerst performed Drug Metabolism Sample Operations 4 today. The crew removed the C group of BioCells from Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus-4 (CGBA-4). A sample was then taken from all C group BioCells and placed in the Drug Metabolism Ziplock Bag. The Drug Metabolism Ziplock Bag was then placed in Cold Storage.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation: In support of tomorrow’s EVA 27, Wilmore printed and installed Cuff Checklist procedures onto both Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMU). In addition, Gerst and Wiseman performed a functional checkout of the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER). Lastly, Gerst, Wiseman, and Wilmore all reviewed EVA related procedures and conducted a conference with the ground.  Hatch opening is set to occur tomorrow morning at 7:15am with ingress back into the Joint Airlock at approximately 12:55pm.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the start position for  tomorrow’s EVA.  They then set up the Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload Orbital Replaceable Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA) for the release of the failed Pump Module during the EVA.  MSS performance today was nominal.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Inspection of SM-U connector on air-water separator [МНР-НС] behind [АСУ] panel 139 and inspection of transparent section of 5182-03 pipeline between [ДКиВ] pretreat and water dispenser and air-water separator assembly [МНР]
HRF – Sample Collection, Prep for Stowage, Sample Insertions, Urine Sample Collection, Frozen Blood Samples Ops, & Equipment Stow
EVA-40 procedures, preliminary timeline review, DVD viewing.
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
ZEBRA – Samples Retrieval from MELFI, Water Sampling, Measurements, & MELFI Sample Insertion
Download Pille Dosimeter Readings
Pille Dosimeter Prep for USOS EVA-27
HRF Pre-EVA Crew Health Status – Prep
ГФИ-1. Relaksatsiya Experiment Battery Charge
SALMARK – Health Assessment Questionnaire
Exercise data downlink
Pre-EVA Crew Health Status
Onboard Training on EMU ECWS System
Offloading WPA Liquid Waste Container into CWC
SSC Video Services Testing for Upcoming EVA
СТТС Configuration for MRM2
Checkout of thermostat ТБУ-В No.6 in MRM2
ASEPTIC. Photography of samples after incubation
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
DOUG Software Review / Conference
SAFER Checkout
FGB ЦВ1 Circulation Fan Screen Cleaning
EVA – Tool Audit
Equipment Lock Preparation
ASEPTIC Photo Edit and Downlink
Installation of overlay sheets on FGB interior panels (panel 206) – gathering and preliminary operations.
DRMET – Experiment Ops & Placement of Drug Metabolism Ziploc bag into MELFI
Installation of overlay sheets on FGB interior panels (panel 206) – Disinfectant Treatment.
RELAXATSIYA Parameter Adjustment, Observation, & Closeout Ops
EVA Procedure Review
Stow Disposal Items in Progress #423 (DC1) with IMS update
EVA Procedure Conference
IMS Delta File Prep
RGN REC-TNK – Remove depress hose for nominal operations
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
On-Call Crew Quarters Configuration

Completed Task List Items

ISS Crew Handover [In Work]
CMS-T2 Assembly (all remaining parts) [Complete]
IMAX CTB Reconfiguration [Complete]

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

SSRMS Mnvr to EVA start position 

