
Payloads:
Actiwatch Plus:  A crewmember connected up to four Actiwatch Plus devices to the HRF Payload Drawer on HRF Rack 2 for charging and data transfer.  The Actiwatch is a waterproof, nonintrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. The device contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data are stored in nonvolatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Device for the study of Critical Liquids and Crystallization Alice-Like Insert (DECLIC-ALI):  A crewmember installed the third re-flight of the DECLIC instrument, hard drive, and the ALICE-LIKE Insert (ALI) into EXPRESS Rack 8.  DECLIC-ALI studies liquids at the verge of boiling. The flow of heat during boiling events is different in microgravity than it is on Earth. Understanding how heat flows in fluids at the verge of boiling will help scientists develop cooling systems for use in microgravity.
Immersive Exercise:  A crewmember performed the setup of the Immersive Exercise hardware, run an exercise session, fill the questionnaire and restowed the hardware items.  The Immersive Exercise project focuses on the development of a virtual reality (VR) environment for biking sessions aboard the ISS.  The VR equipment is interfaced with the current bicycle exerciser aboard the ISS, Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS), located in the United States “Destiny” Laboratory Module. 
Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS):  The crew performed troubleshooting steps to recover from observed problems that occurred during the Max CEVIS activity on GMT 272, where Portable PFS became unresponsive.  The PPFS, provided by the European Space Agency (ESA), is new equipment added to the already developed European Pressurized Module (EPM) pool of instruments.  The Portable PFS is an evolution to the existing Pulmonary Function System (PFS). The PFS is the EPM contribution to NASA’s Human Research Facility (HRF) and supports a wide range of respiratory and cardiovascular measurements. 
Space Acceleration Measurement System-II (SAMS-II):  A crewmember activated the SAMS-II Control Unit. Space Acceleration Measurement System-II (SAMS-II) is an ongoing study of the small forces (vibrations and accelerations) on the International Space Station (ISS) resulting from the operation of hardware, crew activities, dockings and maneuvering.  Results generalize the types of vibrations affecting vibration-sensitive experiments and structural life of ISS. Investigators and Structural Analysts seek to better understand the vibration environment on the ISS using SAMS-II data and assessing station loads and dynamics.
Technology Box:  A crewmember performed troubleshooting activities prior in preparation of Technology Box operations. The main objective of Technology Box (Tetr’ISS) is to conduct experiments gathered in support equipment called ‘Platform’, to illustrate science principles based on physics and chemistry. For this mission, Tetr’ISS contains the Chladni’s Figures experiment: a physical science experiment to observe the sound waves in 3D thanks to fine particles organized according to nodes and antinodes.
Touching Surfaces:  A crewmember performed touching operations on the Touch Array and reported data via the EveryWear application. Previous space research conducted during short-term flight experiments and long-term environmental monitoring on board orbiting space stations (such as MIR or the International Space Station) suggests that the relationship between humans and microbes is altered in the crewed habitat in space.  This interdisciplinary project Touching Surfaces aims to investigate novel, laser-structured antimicrobial surfaces onboard the ISS. The realistic testing of the tailor-made nanostructured antimicrobial surface in space allows for the determination of the most suitable design for antimicrobial surfaces for terrestrial applications such as public transportation and clinical settings, as well as future human space mission and habitation design. 
Systems:
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review: All crewmembers and spaceflight participants participated in an Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review today. Items of discussion included procedure strategy and intent, communication and coordination, crew accountability, access to escape vehicles, Safe Haven, segment expertise, buddy system, PPE, and the ISS Commander’s responsibilities. Due to the complex nature of emergencies in space, it is imperative that each crewmember and spaceflight participant is familiar with the various emergency procedures and strategies in place.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Powerup
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Unstow
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Translate Config
Attitude Control System (ACS) Software Thruster Disable
Mobile Transporter (MT) Pre-Translation Check Out and Survey
Mobile Transporter (MT) Translation
Attitude Control System (ACS) Software Thruster Enable

