
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: Gerst removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides, isolating the rack and allowing ground teams to start another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding.
Drug Metabolism:  Wiseman inserted the Drug Metabolism Stow Bag (containing BioCells) into Commercial generic Bioprocessing Apparatus-4 (CGBA-4), reconfigured CGBA-4 power and data cables and opened the locker door so that CGBA-4 can be removed without being powered off during future operations.  Metformin is a drug commonly used to treat type 2 diabetes, which is often associated with obesity. Along with lowering blood sugar and cholesterol, metformin has been shown to protect diabetic patients against several forms of cancer. Repurposing Metformin as an anti-cancer agent: microgravity studies in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Drug Metabolism) studies yeast cells to understand how drugs act on tumors, and whether metformin can serve as an anti-cancer drug.
Plant Gravity Sensing (PGS):  Wilmore setup the experiment laptop terminal 2 (ELT2), retrieved a Seed Paper Kit from the MELFI, prepared the Seed Paper in a culture dish and placed the kit in the +2C MELFI.  Gravity is a critical environmental factor affecting the morphology and functions of organisms on the Earth. Plants sense the gravity vector and regulate their growth direction accordingly. We examine whether the gravity sensing machinery can be formed under the micro-gravity condition in the international space station, and examine the gravity sensing mechanism in plant seedlings.
 RapidScat: Ground teams will send commands to activate and checkout the RapidScat external payload this evening.
Salivary Markers:  Wilmore collected his first saliva samples in the seven day Salivary Marker investigation.  The Effects of Long-Term Exposure to Microgravity on Salivary Markers of Innate Immunity (Salivary Markers) investigation involves the collection of blood, saliva, urine and a health assessment on six subjects pre-, in- and post-flight to determine if spaceflight induced immune system dysregulation increases infection susceptibility or poses a significant health risk to crewmembers onboard the International Space Station. The investigation utilizes a longitudinal, repeated measures design to determine the effects of long-term exposure to microgravity on a host of salivary antimicrobial proteins (AMPs), latent viral reactivation, antibacterial properties of saliva, and blood markers associated with innate host immune defense.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  The crew performed fit checks on Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003 and 3010 to ensure correct sizing prior to upcoming EVAs.  Once fit checks were complete, Gerst installed Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBA) into both EMUs. EVA 27 is scheduled for next week on October 7th to carry out a Pump Module (PM) relocation and Mobile Transporter Relay Assembly (MTRA) installation.
Radiation Area Monitor (RAM) Deployment:  Wiseman deployed a total of 23 RAMs in various locations within the ISS. Once installed, he photo documented each newly deployed RAM.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.

Laptop RS1(2) & RSS2 Reboot
SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test
Visual Inspection of Circuit Breaker [АЗС] Position on DC1 Power Switch Panel (БВП) and Fuses
HRF – Sample Collection, Prep for Stowage, and MELFI Insertion
Closing USOS Window Shutters
Regeneration of БМП Ф2 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – ISS Medical Accessory Kit (IMAK) Unpack
OTKLIK. Equipment Check
ASEPTIC. Glovebox Closeout Ops
On-orbit Hearing Assessment using EARQ
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
MATRYOSHKA-R. Monitoring Lulin-5 readings
Removal of two КЛ-152М TV cameras and СГ2-14В light units from Soyuz 714
ECLSS Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
ТКГ 423 (DC1) Stowage and IMS Ops
PGS – ELT2 Installation, Retrieval from MELFI, Sample prep, MELFI Insertion
Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Removal ops
Rodent Research (RR) – Water Box Check
High Pressure Oxygen Bypass Configuration
EMU Stowage
24-hour ECG (termination)
Cleaning FGB ГЖТ Detachable Screens 1, 2, 3
24-hour BP Monitoring (start)
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
ISS Repress from ТКГ 423 (DC1) СрПК section 1 (start & terminate)
EMU Resizing & stowage
Elektron-VM БКО Flush
Installation of Radiation Area Monitors
СОЖ Maintenance
IMS Delta File Prep
ТК 714 Transfers and IMS Ops
ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position Verification
Hematocrit  Hardware Setup
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
IVA – Complete Questionnaire / USOS procedures
Crew Handover
Installation of REBA batteries
Oxygen Supply System Reconfig to Initial
CIR – Hardware Teardown
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
DRMET – Kit Insertion into CGBA-4
IVA – Clothes Disposal & Everyday Clothes Survey
БМП Ф2 Absorption Cartridge Regeneration (termination)

Completed Task List Items

ISS Crew Handover [In Work]

Completed Ground Activities

UHF activation/deactivation to support EMU On-Orbit Fit check
ATV Refueling System (RFS) Purge 

