10-08-2009October 08, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/08/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Stott, FE-4 Thirsk, FE-5 De Winne & FE-5-21 Williams continued their week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Jeff’s first, logging data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Also after wakeup, Barratt, Stott, Thirsk, De Winne & Williams performed their third dry saliva collection of the biomed experiment INTEGRATED IMMUNE.  The collections were timelined as a 5-min activity after wakeup but actually consist of five 1-min activities to be collected throughout the day (Mike’s busy schedule permitted only four collections).      [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples & analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned on the Shuttle so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]   FE-4 Thirsk set up the INTEGRATED IMMUNE blood draw gear for himself, Mike, Nicole, Frank and Jeff to use during tomorrow’s blood sample collections.    Nicole concluded her second ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity.    [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices were worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres was doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]   At wake-up, FE-3 Romanenko terminated his ninth experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]   Afterwards, Romanenko had about 2 hrs for his fifth session with the Russian behavioral assessment MBI-20 TIPOLOGIA, setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.    [FE-1-21 Max Suraev assisted him in donning the electrode cap, preparing/wiping the head for the electrodes, applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit and taking photographs.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]   In preparation for his return to gravity in two days, CDR Padalka his fifth and final training session of the Russian MO-5 MedOps protocol of cardiovascular evaluation in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP) on the Russian VELO ergometer, assisted by Romanenko as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  The activity was then closed out.     [The 1.5-hour assessment, supported by ground specialist tagup via S-band, uses the Gamma-1 ECG equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels.  HR (Heart Rate) & BP (Blood Pressure) readings were reported to the ground specialist.  The Chibis ODNT provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Malenchenko’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after several months in zero-G.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by two cycles of a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -20, -25, -35, and -40 mmHg for five min. each, then -25, -30, and -40 mmHg (Torr) for 5 min. each plus 30mmHg for 5 min. while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, while wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]   Working on the RBO-3-2 Matryoshka-R radiation monitoring instrumentation in the SM (Service Module, panel 326), Padalka & Romanenko closed out the payload and removed the SPD differential pressure indicator/dosimeter assemblies for transfer to the Soyuz 18S SA Descent Module, along with the pre-packed bubble-dosimeter detectors in their kit, after taking photographs with the NIKON D2X.    [Matryoshka automatically takes radiation measurements in the SM and DC-1 docking compartment for studies of on-orbit radiation and long-term dose accumulation, using six SPD dosimeters deployed throughout the RS (Russian Segment) as well as in a spherical body-simulating Matryoshka-R phantom.]   Roman also removed the BIO-2/BIORISK-MSV & BTKh-8 BIOTREK payloads from the SM and transferred them to 18S for return.   Gennady had ~3.5 hrs set aside for hardware prepacking for return and disposal on Soyuz TMA-14.    [Return items are being stowed in the Descent Module, discarded cargo & trash in the Orbital Module, to be jettisoned during Reentry.]   The CDR also undertook the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.   FE-1 Mike Barratt set up, checked out and conducted his sixth test with the French/CNES neuroscientific research experiment “3D Space” (SAP) as Subject #3, while free-floating, using the ESA Multipurpose Laptop with a prepared HDD (Hard Disk Drive), data storage on a PCMCIA memory card, and an electronic pen table connected to it.   [3D Space, which involves distance, writing and illusion exercises, is designed to test the hypothesis that altered visual perception affects motor control.  To do this, the subject is asked to reproduce shapes or text on an electronic pen pad (Wacom Intuos3 A4).  The test person is asked to reproduce shapes or text on the pen tablet which allows researchers to record and analyze the reactions both on earth and in space.]   Later, Mike worked in the U.S. A/L (Airlock), performing the yearly dump & fill maintenance on the EV1 EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit, #3011) water tanks, after swapping EMU 3011 for EMU 3009 in the aft EDDA (EMU Don/Doff Assembly).    Also in the A/L, FE-2 Stott terminated discharge of EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) batteries set up yesterday in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly), and initiated the process on the fourth battery set, using BC4 (Battery Charger 4) for maintenance requirements and stowage.   After a final re-centering of the new T2 treadmill rack COLBERT in the Node-2 rack bay, its installation & activation was successfully completed.  T2 checkout began immediately afterwards.     [Photos were downloaded for ground inspection.  After Nicole had set up an IWIS RSU (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System Remote Sensor Unit) and Accelerometer in Node-2 in order to collect T2 data, the FE-2 turned the T2 rack power switch to On, and the ground commanded the T2 rack RPC (Remote Power Controller) closed.  Jeff then started with the usual unmanned speed characterization test.  Audio and video was downlinked real-time and recorded during this test.  Any crewmembers inside Node-2 during T2 operation need to wear hearing protection since the T2 is very loud.]   Later, Stott conducted the periodic maintenance & visual inspection of the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) and its VIS (Vibration Isolation System) rails & rollers, greasing the Y- and Z-axis rails & rollers and also evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration.    [ARED is showing lower loads than expected (for which the crew is compensating), but the suspected leak in the cylinder has not been located yet.]    Nicole completed the regular monthly HMS CMO (Health Maintenance System / Crew Medical Officer) training protocol, a 30-min. exercise to refresh her CMO’s acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The proficiency drill today focused on Nosebleed.    [The HMS hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The impact of not maintaining proficiency with the HMS hardware and procedures could lead to a substantial impact to ISS operations, potential evacuation of ISS, and loss of crew life.]   After yesterday’s MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) inspection by Mike Barratt, Nicole today removed two spent desiccant packs and replaced them with fresh ones (condensation bake-out was not required).     [MERLIN, the Galley fridge, is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.  It has been 95 days since the last desiccant change and over 428 door openings.]   Mike Barratt had a major 3-hr task in the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), first installing the AmiA (Antimicrobial Applicator) at the JPM ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) to introduce an antimicrobial medium into Kibo’s cooling system.  Later, Mike removed AmiA again and stored it for return, after draining a small amount of fluid from it.     [The AmiA was purged to vacuum before installation and then left in place at the JPM1F1 Z-panel for a minimum of six hours to add the antimicrobial agent Ortho-phthalaldehyde (OPA).]    During the day, Roman Romanenko used the Russian IPD-NH3 Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the cabin air for NH3 (ammonia, from possible urine spillage), followed by the periodic air sampling with the AK-1M adsorber around the SM work table and in the (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok).  The samplers were stowed in the Soyuz 18S Descent Module for analysis on the ground.      FE-1-21 Maxim Suraev used the standard ECOSFERA equipment, set up yesterday by Padalka, to conduct microbial air sampling runs for the MedOps SZM-MO-21 experiment, with the POTOK Air Purification System temporarily powered down, taking samples from cabin surfaces along with samples from crewmembers for sanitation and disease studies.  The Petri dishes with the samples were then stowed in the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic container and subsequently packed for return in Soyuz TMA-14.    [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger and power supply unit, provides samples to help determine microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.]   With the FE-3 taking pictures for downlink, Suraev also set up & conducted a solar observation session with the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) experiment, using a hand-held spectrometer (without using TIUS three-stage rate sensor) from SM window #9 and later downlinking data.     [RUSALKA ops involve calibration and tests of research equipment relating to the Sun and the Earth's limb at sunset (atmosphere lighted).  Being tested are the procedure for remote determination of Methane (CH4) & Carbon Dioxide (CO2) content in the atmosphere (in the First Phase), measurement of CH4 & CO2 content in the atmosphere and reception of data on NI2 and NI4 content over the territories subjected to natural and technogenic effects, reception of sufficient data on seasonal dependencies of tropospheric parameters being studied (in the Second Phase).  Equipment used:  Rusalka monoblock, Nikon D2X(s) digital photo camera; AF VR Nikkor ED 80-400f/4.5-5.6D lens with ultraviolet filter, bracket for attachment to the window, and Rusalka-Accessories set.  Support hardware: Device TIUS DKShG/PNSK, Laptop RSK1, and Software Package loading disk.]   In preparation for another session of the BAR experiment, set up in the FGB, Maxim & Roman started charging the battery for the KPT-2 Kelvin-Video payload.    [Objective of the Russian BAR-EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  The payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss anemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]   Maxim started another round on the monthly preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, cleaning Group A fans and grilles in the SM.   Assisted by his Russian crewmates, Suraev worked in the Soyuz 18S to dismantle & remove the LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12 onboard measurement telemetry, along with its ROM unit (read-only memory, TA765B) for stowage on ISS and later re-use.   In the newly arrived Soyuz TMA-16/20S, the FE-1-21 dismantled the two "Klest" (KL-152) TV cameras and their light units in the Descent Module for return to the ground on 18S for reuse (postponed from 10/7).   As a test for the new flight engineer, Maxim took KPT-3 aerial photography for Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON) of environmental conditions on Earth using the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens, focusing on water surface contamination in the Suez Canal, the Nile river delta, and the Red Sea.   Suraev also did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   Additionally, Maxim completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   In the COL BLB (Columbus Orbital Laboratory Biolab), FE-5 De Winne de-installed the YNG/Yeast EC (Experiment Container) B1 after fixation and stored it in the TCU (Thermal Control Unit), then performed the second (FD8 or 9) photo session (of 3) on the B2 Yeast EC in the BLB incubator.  Later, EC B2 was also removed and secured in the TCU.   Nicole Stott continued commissioning activity on the new MSRR1 (Materials Science Research Rack 1), today working with the ground (POIC/Huntsville) on activating its control laptop, verifying the integrity of its TECS (Thermal Environment Control System), loading software on the PCS and later deactivating the laptop.     [The ESA/NASA MSRR-1 will provide a powerful multi-user MSL (Materials Science Laboratory) with diverse EMs (Experiment Modules) so that many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied in micro-G to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.  MSRR experiments will be coordinated by international teams that share different parts of the samples.  There are 25 investigators on three research teams participating in the first of these investigations.]   De Winne & Bob Thirsk continued hardware checkouts on the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System), subsystem by subsystem with voice call-down to POIC as required and data capture via SNFM (Serial Network Flow Monitor) on ER1 (EXPRESS Rack 1).     [Real time data via video were required the first & the last 10 minutes for POIC to confirm hardware is ready for checkout, and to verify ECG (Electrocardiograph) checkout.) With a successful checkout, the hardware was to be temporarily stowed for the VO2max experiment tomorrow; otherwise, hardware was to be fully stowed until any data issues are resolved.]   Continuing the FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory) commissioning in the COL, Thirsk configured the FSL mechanically to install the Optical Target for Optical Checkout #6.     [During installation, an FSL drawer handle screw on the left side inadvertently broke.]   FE-4 Thirsk also completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week.   At ~5:27am EDT, Mike powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at ~5:32am conducted a ham radio session with attendants at SintNational Planetarium Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia.   At ~7:15am, FE-1 Barratt was scheduled for his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).   At ~9:00am, Barratt, Stott, Thirsk, De Winne & Williams participated in a PAO TV interview event with CBS News (Bill Harwood & Peter King).   At ~3:25pm, the ISS crew held their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H via S-band/audio.    [S/G-2 (Space-to-Ground 2) phone patch via SSC (Station Support Computer).]   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1,FE-4), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-5-21), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, F-3, F-1-21).   Later, Thirsk transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  Soyuz TMA-14/18S MCS Update:   Early in the morning, CDR Padalka supported a re-test of the 18S SUDN MCS (Motion Control System) with a thruster firing.   Again telemetry was not received from one thruster.  However, all indications are that the posigrade thruster is completely functional and fired nominally.  Preliminary investigation points to a sensor problem – that sensor will be masked.  No impact to nominal Soyuz 18S undocking, reentry, or landing operations.   Red Nose in Orbit:   Guy and Cirque du Soleil are planning a 2-hour live broadcast with the crew on Friday, 10/9.  It will string together live broadcasts from sites around the world.  NASA and Cirque du Soleil have signed a unique MOU (Memorandum of Understanding) for this Soyuz visiting crew.  NASA will participate in this broadcast event, supporting video recording on orbit, and helping get the NASA messages about ISS and Exploration integrated into the event and the attendant publicity.  It may possibly be picked up by broadcast TV.  Information about the webcast is available through this link: http://www.spaceadventures.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=news.viewnews&newsid=729    CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Beijing, China Aerosol (looking left for any haze masses in the atmosphere.  A mapping swath well off track to include shorelines or other recognizable features was requested), Porto Praya, Santiago, Cape Verde Islands (HMS Beagle site. In the horseshoe of the Cape Verde Island chain, Santiago is the largest island with Porto Praya located at the southern tip.  Darwin begins his Journal at this island.  It is reported that he was "fascinated by his first sight of tropical vegetation and by the volcanic island's geology."), and Caracas, Venezuela (weather was predicted to be mostly clear over the capital city of Venezuela.  The city follows the trend of the Caracas Valley within the coastal mountains.  Overlapping mapping frames taken along track were requested; these will capture a rural-urban-rural transect across the urban area).    CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  