
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo:  Kelly and Yui set up and performed a SPHERES Vertigo run today.  This investigation uses the SPHERES free-flying satellites to demonstrate and test enhanced technologies and techniques related to visual inspection and navigation. This effort incorporates hardware and software that enables multiple SPHERES to construct 3 Dimensional (3D) models of a target object and then perform relative navigation solely by reference to those 3D models.
 
MAGVECTOR:  The sixth run of the European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) MAGVECTOR experiment started today.  MAGVECTOR qualitatively investigates the interaction between a moving magnetic field and an electrical conductor. The expected changes in the magnetic field structure on the ram and wake side of the electrical conductor are of interest for technical applications as well as for astrophysical research.
 
Large Format Motion Picture Camera (IMAX): Kelly connected the IMAX Codex to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for a downlink of recorded video files.  IMAX filmmakers intend to produce a three dimensional movie called A Perfect Planet, using ISS-based video and images to show how natural and human forces shape planet Earth. The film will also showcase NASA’s exploration efforts and highlight the ISS as a platform for scientific research and a stepping stone to deep space exploration.
 
Journals: Kelly performed a Journals activity today. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used during astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparation for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly and Kornienko continued a week-long set of Sleep Log entries by making daily entries.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Space Headaches: Yui and Lindgren answered their weekly Space Headaches questionnaires today.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) #6 Operations:  Overnight, additional troubleshooting was performed to attempt to launch the cubesats.  The latches were cycled during a Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Emergency Stop (E-stop) test to jolt the deployer.  Attempts to release satellites in Deployer #6 using JEMRMS motion were not successful.  Teams are discussing the forward plan.
 
Node 1 Nadir Power Connections Part 2:  As part of USOS Reconfiguration, Lindgren and Yui changed out bulkhead feedthrough connectors in the Lab to Node 1 vestibule, then mated pre-routed jumper cables to the ISS 1 and 4 power domains.  These cables will provide power to Node 1 Nadir Berthing Port and Galley Rack.   During this activity, Lindgren was unable to mate two connectors due to interference caused by incorrect clocking of a connector’s back-shell.  A jumper was installed to provide interim power to airlock shell heaters. Engineering teams are meeting to determine a forward plan and any impacts to Saturday’s planned leak check of the Lab/Node 1 vestibule.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

SLEEP Questionnaire
HAM radio session from Columbus
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference
LAB – RPCM Adapter Review
SPHERES – Camera Setup and Video Recording
ISS HAM RADIO Power Down
RS3 Laptop Activation
ТКГ 429 (SM Aft) Transfers and IMS Ops
Collect SM and FGB Air Samples Using АК-1М Sampler
КЦП2 and Laptop RS3 Transition and Upgrade to SW Version 08.08.
SM Air Sampling for FREON Using АК-1М Sampler
СОЖ Maintenance
SPHERES – Camcorder Setup and Test
Treatment of FGB structural elements and shell areas with Fungistat
Test of Laptop RS3-КЦП2-ЦВМ-ТВМ Command & Data Line.
RS3 Laptop Deactivation.
RS2 Laptop Activation
Laptop RS2 Transition and Upgrade to SW Version 08.08
Replacement of СД1-7 Light Units with ССД305 Light Units (3) in DC1, Replacement of fuses in ЩО-ЛО light panel.
Test of Laptop RS2-КЦП2-ЦВМ-ТВМ Command & Data Line.
IMAX – Connecting to SSC
EXPOSE-R. Copy and Downlink Data
Node 1 – Nadir port prep
Transition and Upgrade of REMOTE RS LAPTOP SW to БВС SW Version 08.08.
Treatment of FGB structural elements and shell areas with Fungistat
Replacement of СД1-7 Light Units with ССД305 Light Units (3) in DC1, Replacement of fuses in ЩО-ЛО light panel.
TOCA Calibration
MAGVEC – Connecting USB
MAGVEC – Configuration of MagVector
HMS – Food Frequency Questionnaire
VCA1 Camera Adjustment
SPHERES – Data Export
IMAX – Terminate Battery Charge
Power down hardware downstream of NOD2 UOP2 per Plug in Plan (PiP)
ECLSS Recycle Tank Remove and Replace
Node 1 – Nadir port prep
RS1 Laptop Deactivation.
MATRYOSHKA-R. Monitoring Lulin-5 Readings.
ROBoT – Simulator Proficiency Training
Bringing ODF (БВС and СУДН) up to date using ТКГ 429 (SM Aft) delivered files
Download Pille Dosimeter Readings
SHD – Questionnaire
JRNL – Journal Entry
Treatment of FGB structural elements and shell areas with Fungistat
IMAX – Terminate Codex 512 GB Drive charge
Loading ТВМ1-Н Log-file dump SW on RSS1 Laptop. ТВМ1-Н Log-File Dump
MRM2 comm config to support the P/L Ops
Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Run.
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
SHD – Questionnaire
IMAX – Power down
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
TOCA Calibration
Video Footage of Greetings

 
Completed Task List Items

WHC KTO Replace
Safety Video Followup [In Work]
61P US Unpack [In Work]

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

System safing in support of Node 1 Nadir Power Connections Part 2

 
