
Conjunction Status: Ground teams continued to evaluate tracking data updates overnight for a possible conjunction with Object #38971. The latest tracking data indicates that the object is tracking away from the ISS and is no longer a concern.
SpaceTex: After an exercise session, Gerst completed a SpaceTex questionnaire about the textile. He then packed Tenax Diffusion Collector Tubes and SpaceTex clothing worn during exercise. This is the first of four SpaceTex sessions.  The present study is designed to investigate which textiles during sports exercise on ISS are evaluated as the best by the astronauts.
Biological Research In Canisters -19 (BRIC-19): Wiseman retrieved BRIC-19 canisters and inserted all four canisters into the Minus Eight-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI) at actuation +12 hours (-0/+12 hours). The Biological Research in Canisters (BRIC) hardware has supported a variety of plant growth investigations.  The BRIC-19 investigation will focus on the growth and development of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings in microgravity.  Seedlings will be preserved with a chemical fixative and returned to the ground for post flight evaluation.
Nanoracks Module 29: Wiseman utilized the Plate Reader to analyze Microplate(s) from Module-29. Two scans were planned. However, a Plate Reader anomaly precluded completion of the scans.  NanoRacks-Fluorescent Polarization in Microgravity utilizes the on-orbit Plate Reader facility to validate its functionality in three of its five modes of operation in order to examine the effect of microgravity on fluorescent polarization (FP) for a fluorophore in solution, to validate the UV-Visible mode by using three different absorbance wavelengths in serially diluted liquids, and to validate the fluorescence intensity by using serial dilutions of two different fluorophores. This investigation also serves as part of the process of validating and establishing a workflow for the Plate Reader facility.
Plant Gravity Sensing (PGS): Gerst removed seed paper from GLACIER and installed the plant experiment unit into Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) in the Saibo Rack, starting a Plant Gravity Sensing experiment.
Drug Metabolism: Gerst removed a sample kit from the GLACIER and placed it into the Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus-4 (CGBA-4).  He then removed the A group of BioCells from CGBA-4, injected Metformin into BioCells A01 through A08 and then injected Inoculum into BioCells A01 through A12, returned these BioCells to CGBA-4.  Metformin is a drug commonly used to treat type 2 diabetes, which is often associated with obesity. Along with lowering blood sugar and cholesterol, metformin has been shown to protect diabetic patients against several forms of cancer. Repurposing Metformin as an anti-cancer agent: microgravity studies in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Drug Metabolism) studies yeast cells to understand how drugs act on tumors, and whether metformin can serve as an anti-cancer drug.
Space Headaches: Gerst and Wiseman completed Space Headaches questionnaires. The objectives of this study are to obtain in-flight data allowing evaluation of the prevalence and characteristics of headache in microgravity.
EMU Enhanced Caution and Warning C&W System (ECWS) Training: In preparation for upcoming Extravehicular Activities (EVAs), Wilmore setup the ECWS Onboard Trainer, reviewed ECWS operations, and practiced EVA Cuff Checklist procedures. EVA 27 is scheduled for next week on October 7th to carry out a Pump Module (PM) relocation and Mobile Transporter Relay Assembly (MTRA) installation.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) and Russian Toilet (ACY) Status: WHC and ACY both exhibited issues overnight and were inoperable for a short period of time. During this timeframe, the crew was given a go to use the Soyuz ACYs. After some quick troubleshooting, the SM ACY was recovered with a pump separator change out. The WHC was also recovered after Wilmore replaced the system’s Dose Pump.  Both systems are operating nominally since the repairs.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.

HRF – Sample Collection and Prep for Stowage, MELFI Sample Retrieval/Insertion
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops.
Vozdukh Deactivation
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
ISS Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Computer Based Training (CBT)
Payload Interface Monitoring Unit (БКИПН). Removal of БКИПН (ТВМ-1Н).
Install БКИПН (ТВМ-1Н) and connect cables to БКИПН (ТВМ-1Н).
Mating Telemetry Connectors to БИТС2-12.
SHD – Space Headaches Weekly Questionnaire
SSRMS Checkout
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Food Frequency Questionnaire
ТКГ 423 (DC1) Stowage Ops with IMS Support
Removal of GoPro camera in ТК 714.
24-hour BP Monitoring (terminate)
Dug Metabolism – Glacier Retrieval, Installation, Experiment ops, and photography
CALCIUM. Bioecologia cases photography and deployment. Photo Downlink.
PGS – Retrieval from MELFI, installation in CBEF, Laptop Application Activation
BRIC19 – MELFI Sample Insertion
Vozdukh Atmosphere Purification System [СОА] Activation
CGBA – Sample insertion/retrieval
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
EVA – Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-Board Training
MOD29 – Retrieval from MELFI
SHD – Space Headaches Weekly Questionnaire
Cleaning ВД1 and ВД2 Air Ducts in MRM2
PLATE – Scanning  [Aborted]
IMS Delta File Prep
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
ECLSS – Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Cleaning БВН (Heater Fan) Screen in ТПК 713
SPTEX – Survey Completion
Packing Textile Material 2 for return

Completed Task List Items

ISS Crew Handover [In Work]
CMS-T2 Assembly Part 4 [In Work] 

Ground Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.

SSRMS Maneuver for Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Stow
LAB CDRA Activation
MT Translation from WS6 to WS4 [In Work] 

