
Possible Conjunction with Object #38971: Ground teams evaluated tracking data throughout the day for a possible conjunction with Object #38971. Time of Closest Approach (TCA) will be Friday, October 03, 10:51pm CDT.  A decision whether or not to perform a Debris Avoidance Maneuver will be made later this evening after additional tracking data is received. If the decision is made to perform the maneuver, the Time of Ignition (TIG) would occur on Friday at 8:28pm.
Zebrafish Muscle: Gerst performed the second water quality measurement of the Aquatic Habitat aquarium water.  The Zebrafish muscle experiment asks if the atrophy of muscles under the condition of microgravity also occurs in zebrafish and why their atrophy occurs in the microgravity.
Circadian Rhythms: Gerst donned instrumentation to begin the 36 hour Circadian Rhythm experiment.  Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Biological Research In Canisters (BRIC): Wiseman reviewed onboard Training (OBT) materials for actuation of BRIC and then performs actuation on all BRIC-19 canisters. Wilmore obtained digital stills for Historical Documentation Photography of the BRIC actuation. The Biological Research in Canisters (BRIC) hardware has supported a variety of plant growth investigations.  The BRIC-19 investigation will focus on the growth and development of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings in microgravity.  Seedlings will be preserved with a chemical fixative and returned to the ground for post flight evaluation.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation: In support of upcoming EVA 27, Wiseman and Wilmore unpacked the Mobile Transporter Relay Assembly (MTRA) and related cables then prepared them for EVA.  In addition, they reviewed Robotic procedures and EVA translation paths associated with the planned Pump Module Relocation and MTRA Installation.
Emergency Hardware On-Board Training (OBT): The newly arrived crewmembers Samokutyaev,  Serova, and  Wilmore completed a review of equipment locations and positions of valves used in case of emergencies. The training was led by ISS Commander Suraev.  While conducting the OBT, the Crew translated along the emergency egress path to the Soyuz vehicles and confirmed there were no obstructions.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Status:  Following Saturday’s change out of the Data Avionic Unit, today the crew completed several closeout tasks associated with T2. Approximately 4 hours of assembly and checkout activities remain before T2 can be operational. Meanwhile, the Crew is able to exercise on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).  
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.

HRF – Sample Collection and Prep for Stowage
Hematocrit  Test
HRF – MELFI Retrieve And Insertion Operations
Closing USOS Window Shutters
Video Camera Assembly (VCA1) Adjustment
ZEBRA – Samples Retrieval from MELFI, Water Sampling, measurements, & MELFI sample insertion
TV Greeting Dedicated to the 57th Anniversary of the First Earth Satellite Launch
Set up video equipment to record ARED exercise
Closure of SM window shutters No.6,8,9,12,13,14
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops &
Water Transfer and ТКГ 423 (DC1) Rodnik Tank 2 Bladder Compression
Retrieval of NanoRacks Plate Adapter
Periodic Fitness Evaluation – Nom Ops (subject)
VIRTUAL. Experiment Ops & photography
Water Transfer and ТКГ 423 (DC1) Rodnik Tank 2 Bladder Compression
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
MTRA – Equipment Preparation
Familiarization with Auxiliary Computer System.
EVA Procedure Review
24-hour BP Monitoring (terminate)
Checking condition and cleaning ТГК 714 and MRM2 hatch sealing mechanism drives
24-hour BP Monitoring
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV  [Aborted]
Payload Interface Control Unit (БКИПН). БКИПН (ТВМ-1Н) R&R r/g Review
OBT ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization
DOUG Software Review
BRIC19 – PL OBT, activation and photography
ТГК 423 (DC1) Rodnik БВ2 Tank bladder compression closeout ops
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
EVA Procedure Conference
SAFER – Training
EMU LIB battery Charge (end)
Thermolab – Instrumentation Ops for Circadian Rhythms
EMU Battery/Metal Oxide (METOX) Installation
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
CIR – Hardware Setup

Completed Task List Items

ISS Crew Handover [In Work]

Ground Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.

Nominal Commanding
OPALS Activation [Aborted]

