
Payloads:
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew gained access to the ELF facility, removed and stowed processed samples, replaced four fixation fasteners, and then installed a new sample cartridge. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt, and solidify materials by container-less processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): As a continuation of the JWRS setup, the crew performed a leak check on 2 areas of the JWRS. JWRS generates potable water from urine. In the past on manned spacecraft, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Ring Sheared Drop-2: The crew installed the next sample and its test cell into the RSD-2 experiment system. The Ring Sheared Drop investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid. Fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues; amyloids are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases as well as to development of advanced materials. 
Systems:
Solar Array Wing (SAW) Max Power Testing: The bi-annual SAW max power test continues today. Currently, ground teams are cycling through the 3A, 4A, 3B, and 4B power channels. Later today, the team will perform a Sequential Shunt Units (SSUs) shunt test, to trend the performance and health of the arrays. Once all tests are completed teams will review the data collected for in-depth analysis and recommendations.
Ultrasound Exam: Today, the crew used the ultrasound device to perform a Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) scan. This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for bilateral imaging of the internal jugular, entire subclavian-axillary axis, and lower extremity deep veins. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams.
Eye Exams: The crew completed routine Optical Coherence Tomography 2 (OCT-2) eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; In this case, the objects of interest are the crewmember’s eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Spotlight Battery and Bulb Remove and replace (R&R): The crew gathered and inspected spotlights located in the USOS hatchways for any signs of corrosion and replaced all batteries. They also replaced bulbs in any spotlight that was dim or nonfunctional.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PCS Reboot
Electrical Power System (EPS) Solar Array Max Power test.
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Robotics External Leak Locator (RELL) scan
Primary Power System (PPS) SSU Shunt test

