
Payloads
Space Tango MultiLab Locker (TangoLab-2): The crew removed Card 014 and stowed it for return and installed sample cards 001 and 012 recently flown on NG-14 as part of TangoLab-2 Mission 18 operations. TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable general research facilities designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS.
NanoRacks Platforms: The crew installed NanoRacks Module-73 into the NanoRacks Platform 2 and then into Plate Reader 2 in order to verify power and telemetry connectivity. NanoRacks Platforms is a multipurpose research facility on board the ISS. NanoRacks Platforms supports NanoRacks Modules in the CubeSat form factor by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity.
Rhodium Space Rhizosphere: The crew performed mixture operations of sample chambers 0008 – 0011 and then placed them in an ambient stow location. Soil Health in Space: Determination of Gravitational Effects on Soil Stability for Controlled Environment Agriculture (Rhodium Space Rhizosphere) examines the effects of spaceflight on the soil aggregates formed by fungi and bacteria. Recent studies have shown a connection between biological activity, aggregation formation, and the overall capacity of soils to sustainably produce nutritious food crops. A better understanding of fungal and bacterial structures and functions in soil could improve food production on Earth and in space.
Polar: The crew uninstalled POLAR’s 3 and 8 from the Cygnus cargo spacecraft and transferred and installed them into ISS racks. Polar is a cold stowage managed facility that provides transport and storage of science samples at cryogenic temperatures (-80ºC) to and from the ISS.
Systems
Cygnus Rendezvous Hardware Tool Cleanup: As part of closeout ops from yesterday’s Cygnus capture and berthing, the crew returned the Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) and Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK) today to their appropriate stowage locations. The CBCS supports Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) mating alignment operations necessary to berth a vehicle to Node 1. The VOK is a toolkit the crew uses during berthing operations.
Cygnus Vehicle Cargo Operations: Today, the crew began Cygnus cargo transfer operations. Ground teams estimate approximately 35 hours remain to complete cargo ops.
Completed Task List Activities:

Transfer 62S USOS prepack (ongoing)
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations (ongoing)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

External High Definition Camera (EHDC) survey of Soyuz before undock
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) File Uplink
ARS Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Zero Calibration
Maneuver to –XVV using OPM

