
ISS Reboost: On Saturday, the ISS performed a reboost using the Aft Progress 81P R&D thrusters. The purpose of the reboost was to begin setting up the proper conditions for the 82P rendezvous. The burn duration was 11 minutes 16 seconds with a Delta-V of 1.358 m/s.
Payloads:
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): Experiment sample and holder (Fragility) were removed from the experiment volume of the ELF and exchanged for Sample Holder 2 in Sample Cartridge. The Fragility sample and holder will return on SpX-26. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in Kibo.
ISS Ham Radio: ISS Ham contact was made with St. Stephen’s Episcopal School Houston, Houston, TX. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Manufacturing Device: A printed object was removed, labeled, photographed, bagged, and stowed. The extruder print nozzle and print tray was cleaned. The Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF) enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the AMF that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. The AMF is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Myotones: Crewmembers performed skin marking and Myotones Device measurements. The Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones) investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g., muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth, as well as for future space missions.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE):  The crew opened the CIR rack door middle panels and the Combustion Chamber, removed Kapton tape from the PCTC7 connector and ensured the connector was labeled, stowed the label if necessary, and closed the chamber and rack door middle panels. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. While SoFIE initially meets the requirements of five investigations, it is intended for use by any researchers who propose related solid combustion studies to NASA in the future. 
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): IGO spool and preform P05 were exchanged for Samples P06 and P09 in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): The Nutrient solution was filled into the XROOTS facility, and the crew performed a plant check of the individual Plant modules. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
RS Water Transfers: Per documented agreements between the US and IP Russia, the crew continues to transfer water from the USOS to the RS. Surplus water in the USOS was transferred from the Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) to an ЕДВ. An ЕДВ is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Crew Dragon Arrival Preparations: Several activities were completed in preparation for the arrival of Crew-5 this week. Gather, Restow, and Audit actions related to preparing the ISS Emergency hardware for transfer to an arriving Crew Dragon US Crew Vehicle (USCV) were completed. The Bose headsets were unstowed, had batteries installed, and deployed. Crew-5 iPads were unstowed and deployed and connected to CrewNet for ground to push updates. A review of Dragon Rendezvous training materials was also completed.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Maintenance: Today, the crew evacuated the ARED Cylinder Flywheel. They also tightened and torqued set screws within the ARED Cylinder Flywheel and Main Arm Fasteners.
Maintenance Activities: As part of regular maintenance, the crew swapped the EDV in the Offload spot of the Urine Transfer System (UTS). The EHS Air Quality Monitors (AQM) were relocated within the US Lab along with support hardware to the left side of the Oxygen Generator System (OGS) rack to alleviate thermal concerns. Lastly, the crew performed Stow Track audit activities for the Vestibule Outfitting Kits in Nodes 1 and 2, Nanoracks Airlock, and miscellaneous Cargo Transfer Bags (CTBs).
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Water Storage System Compressor Checkout
CCS HRDL Reset

