
Life Support Rack (LSR): The crew reviewed the LSR big picture words in preparation for the upcoming installation. Once the installation and checkout are complete, LSR will be capable of providing oxygen generation, carbon dioxide removal, and water generation. Life Support Rack (LSR) is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. LSR captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR technologies were selected for integration into a single system, not requiring buffer tanks or compressors. It is intended to operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions and is sized to support a crew of three.
Lighting Effects:  The crew performed the Lighting Effects sleep logging activity. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Fine Leak Checks and Pressure Management Device (PMD):  Fine leak checks were successfully performed for the Node1/Lab and Node2/Lab vestibules today. The Crew was isolated aft of the Lab for approximately 6 hours while Lab hatches were closed. PMD was utilized successfully in support of the Node2/Lab portion of the leak checks. PMD helps conserve ISS resources and Crew time for depressurizing and pressurizing vestibule operations. 
Treadmill (T2) Accelerometer R&R:  Today, the crew successfully replaced the Accelerometer within T2. In addition, they took advantage of the access and greased the forward right axle today. Once the replacement was complete, the crew and ground successfully performed a checkout of T2. The Accelerometer had been failed since April 12, 2018. Ground teams utilize accelerometer data to characterize the health of the T2 Vibration Isolation System (VIS). 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


JEMRMS Ops in support of JSSOD-10
PMD Commanding

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Saturday, 10/06: Crew Off-Duty, Housekeeping, J-SSOD-10 satellite deploy
Sunday, 10/07: Urine collections (Biochem profile, lighting effects, repository), Off-Duty 
Monday, 10/08:
Payloads:


Radi-N2 Deploy
Urine Collections, Blood Collections
LSR Installation

Systems

EVA Procedure Review

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Record COP24 script
EVA Procedure Review for Suit IV
International Procedure Viewer Tablet Questionnaire
Making a documentary about life onboard the ISS
R PAO event report preparation
Spacetex-2 questionnaire filling
Spacetex-2 Final Questionnaire filling
СЦЕНАРИЙ. Наблюдения и фотосъемка с использованием фотоаппаратуры
ECON-M. Observations and photo (Task list)
Visual inspection and leak check, using US leak detector ULD in the orbital compartment [БО] of Soyuz №739. Report to MCC during comm pass
Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry Subject
LMM MERLIN Plate Insertion
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 (T2) Accelerometer R&R Equipment Gather
Pressure Management Device (PMD) Equipment Setup and Power
СТТС Configuration for MRM1
Reading LSR Big Picture Words
Pressure Managmenet Device (PMD) Part 1
Lab/Node 1 Vestibule Depress and Leak Check Init
Comm reconfig for nominal ops
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection
Mpeg-2 TV Downlink Test via Ku-band prior to Progress 440 docking
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Termination
Lab/Node 1 Vestibule Depress and Leak Check Term
Urine and brine transfer from ЕДВ to Progress 439 H2O tank 2
Countermeasures System Treadmill 2 Accelerometer Remove and Replace Part 2
EMU Data Recorder Troubleshooting
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Resize
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 System (T2) Monthly Inspection
Configure Pressure Management Device for Vestibule Pressurization
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 (T2) Quarterly Maintenance
Pressure Management Device (PMD) Equipment Teardown
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Restow
Lighting Effects Light Meter Setup [deferred]
Lighting Effects Light Meter Readings [deferred]
Station Support Computer Network Attached Storage Drive Reseat
ISA/VAJ CTB restow
Lighting Effects Light Meter Stow [deferred]
Record UN Forum Script
Record VDE Summit Script
Handover Big Picture Words Review
PAO Deferred Release Message for Task List for FE-6; 2018 MassChallenge Awards
Sextant Navigation Payload Proficiency

 