
Payloads:
TELe-Luminescence Analysis System (TELLAS):  A crewmember installed the Observation Cartridge into the Observation System for a temperature checkout of TELLAS. Upon completion of the science run, the cartridge was removed, and the Equipment was closed out.  TELLA is an experimental facility that uses luminescence and an imager to make observations of tissues/genes in small living animals. Such in-vivo observations facilitate the study of mechanisms related to aging in the microgravity environment. Installed in the Kibo module, the TELLAS facility can provide information that contributes to aging research and improves the health and longevity of people on Earth.
Astrobatics:  A crewmember installed the Astrobatics Skins onto the Astrobee free flyer and assisted the ground teams in conducting science runs. Astrobee Maneuvering by Robotic Manipulator Hopping (Astrobatics) demonstrates the Astrobee robotic vehicles using robotic manipulators to execute a hopping or self-toss maneuver as the primary mean of propulsion, making it mostly propellantless. Astrobee performs increasingly complex maneuvers between handrails using its perching arm to demonstrate vehicle dynamic modeling and guidance and control of the robot. These maneuvers may be incorporated into future robotic missions and advanced terrestrial robotic applications.
Human Resources Facility-1 (HRF-1):  A crewmember performed an inventory of the HRF-1 Supply Kit Purple and HRF Supply Kit Green, took photos, and transferred the photos to an SSC for downlink. HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Technology Box:  A crewmember deployed the Technology Box hardware and initiated the science run. Upon completion the data was transferred, and the unit was uninstalled and stowed. The main objective of Technology Box (Tetr’ISS) is to conduct experiments gathered in support equipment called ‘Platform’, to illustrate science principles based on physics and chemistry.  For this mission, Tetr’ISS contains the Chladni’s Figures experiment: a physical science experiment to observe the sound waves in 3D as a result of fine particles organized according to nodes and antinodes. 
Systems:
Node 1 20-Port Network Switch Installation: Today, the crew replaced the NOD1 16-Port Ethernet Switch with a 20-port Network Switch at NOD1PD4. This was the second attempt at installing and configuring the 20-port switch (S/N 1007) at NOD1PD4. The install was successful.

CASA Outfitting: Today, the crew outfitted the Crew Alternate Sleeping Accommodation (CASA) in the COL1O4 rack bay with a ZBook, iPad Pro, and Emergency Flashlight for Crew Occupancy. A door prop was also built and installed to keep the CASA door open 1′ during crew occupancy. The ZBook and iPad will be returned to their nominal location since crew is not moving into CASA. 
Node 3 Endcone Cleanout: Today, the crew cleaned out both the Node 3 Endcone and the Nanoracks Airlock (NRAL) in preparation for the install of the GITAI payload early next week. GITAI will offer the ISS novel ways to manipulate and adjust systems and payloads remotely inside of the NRAL.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Astrobee Crew Conference
Astrobatics Operations
Crew Dragon Awake Mode Checkout
Dragon Voice Comm Configuration
NanoRacks External Platform Activation.
Attitude Control System (ACS) Rate Source Management
Attitude Control System (ACS) Attitude Data Select
Attitude Control System (ACS) Attitude/Rate Filter Enable
Attitude Control System (ACS) Rate Gyro Assembly (RGA) Shutdown
DC to DC Converter Unit (DDCU) Powerdown

