
Crew-4 Freedom Departure: Due to unfavorable weather conditions at the splashdown site, the Crew-4 Freedom spacecraft undock was delayed from the original departure date of October 12th. The next undock opportunity is tomorrow, October 13th at 9:00 am CT. The crew instead had a light duty day in preparation for undock slated tomorrow.
Payloads:
Actiwatch: Crewmembers doffed the Actiwatch Plus units and stowed them in the Actiwatch Plus Kit. The Actiwatch is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Dose Distribution Inside the International Space Station – 3D (DOSIS-3D): Eleven Columbus-deployed dosimeters were retrieved along with a memory card and were stowed for return. Eleven new dosimeters were deployed in the Columbus module. ISS crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation which can be harmful to their health. DOSIS-3D uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS.
GRIP: A crewmember performed the GRIP science protocol in seated position. The GRIP experiment studies long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements such as oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
TELe-Luminescence Analysis System (TELLAS): TELLAS equipment was installed into the MSPR Work Bench and cables were connected. The TELLAS is an experimental facility that uses luminescence and an imager to make observations of tissues/genes in small living animals. Such in-vivo observations facilitate the study of mechanisms related to aging in the microgravity environment. Installed in the Kibo module, the TELLAS facility can provide information that contributes to aging research and improves the health and longevity of people on Earth.
Systems:
Crew-4 Departure Operations: Multiple activities are scheduled today and tomorrow in support of the Crew-4 departure scheduled for tomorrow. Crewmember activities on the timeline include stowing equipment, configuring and verifying cameras, computers, and other hardware, transferring cargo and emergency equipment between vehicles, ensuring proper vehicle configuration, and donning return suits. Crew-4 Freedom Farewell and Change of Command events were performed with the full crew complement. For departure, planned activities include monitoring tools setup and operation, space suit donning, International Docking Adapter (IDA) egress, Dragon hatch closure, and Dragon undock and departure from ISS.
Japanese Excursion Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Backup Drive System (BDS) Reconfiguration: The crew deactivated the BDS after the Backup Controller (BUC) file operation and disconnected BDS Cable 1 from the Utility Outlet Panel (UOP). The JEMRMS BDS provides redundancy for the zero fault tolerant, single-string JEMRMS. This redundancy is essential if the arm becomes stranded due to hardware failure and in some cases a stranded arm could become a collision hazard if it is close enough to structure and subject to certain loads. The JEMRMS cables were configured for BDS checkout by connecting BDS Cable 10 to BUC.
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Crew Dragon System Checkout
[partially deferred] Dragon Departure Prep
[deferred] Dragon Zenith Hatch Close
[deferred] Dragon Undocking
[deferred] Dragon Departure Ops

