10-19-2010October 19, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/19/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       After wakeup, CDR Wheelock, FE-6 Walker & FE-3 Kelly performed another session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, 2nd time for Scott.      [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Also before breakfast, Scott Kelly completed Part 2 of the periodic personal acoustic measurement protocol by deploying the three dosimeters from the SMK (Sound Measurement Kit) at selected locations for static measurements.     [Yesterday, in Part 1, the acoustic dosimeters were worn by the Soyuz 24S crew, i.e., Skripochka, Kaleri & Kelly, for 24 hours (with a microphone on the shirt collar).  Tomorrow, in Part 3, Alex will download the recorded dosimeter data and stow the instruments.  Acoustic data must be taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.]  FE-2 Skripochka completed his first session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.      [FE-1 Kaleri was available to assist in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes, applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit and taking documentary photography.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]  FE-5 Yurchikhin began his day with a review of the 400mm/800mm training videos for the upcoming RPM (R-Bar Pitch Maneuver) photo-shooting on 11/3.     [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the next Shuttle (STS-133/Discovery/ULF5), to be launched 11/1.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Discovery, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]  In the DC1 (Docking Compartment), Yurchikhin worked on the Russian Orlan-MK spacesuits #4 & #5, upgrading the software on the Orlan computers.  Later, the software upgrade was repeated on Orlan-MK #6 in the MRM2 “Poisk” module.      [For upgrading the computers, Fyodor loaded the new software from the RSE-Med laptop via a special OPU operational reprogramming device (TA339) from FGB stowage, as he had done on 6/30 on the Orlan BRTA radio/telemetry units.]  Later, Fyodor continued transmission test of the RS video system over the JSL (Joint Station OpsLAN) begun yesterday, after the recent BRI (SSR/Smart Switch Router) maintenance.    [Activity steps included connecting ASP-SM (Network Connections Adapter in SM/Service Module), KTsP1 (Central Post Computer 1) and SRK (Radiation Monitoring System) to the BRI, then run tests to check remote-controlling the setup from the TsP remote workstation in the Lab.  Earlier, when the BRI was failed, the SM SRK Radiation Monitoring System was connected (since 9/14) to the KPTs1 via the ASP-SM.]  FE-2 Skripochka & FE-5 Yurchikhin performed troubleshooting maintenance on the STTS intermodule communications channel between the FGB and MRM1 “Rassvet”, first removing the instrument container, then using the Elektronika MMTs-01 MultiMeter to check connectivities for isolating the fault.  Afterwards, the container was to be re-installed and mated.  FE-1 Kaleri supported the ground-commanded reactivation of the Russian Elektron O2 generator by monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.     [The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.]  CDR Wheelock conducted the periodic EHS TOCA (Environmental Health System Total Organic Carbon Analyzer analysis of potable water directly from the WRS WPA (Water Recovery System Water Processor Assembly).  Afterwards, Wheels collected “Exp-25 Week 4” samples of potable water for chemical and microbial analysis from the SVO-ZV, SRV-K Warm & SRV-Hot taps, the latter after preliminary heating of the water (three heating cycles) and flushing.     [Collected were three 500 mL micro postflight samples for return on ULF5, two 125mL samples for in-flight microbial analysis from each of three ports (SRV-K Hot, SRV-K Warm, SVO-ZV), plus two 750mL samples for post-flight chemical analysis from SVO-ZV & SRV-Hot.  The flush water, collected in three small waste water bags, was then reclaimed for technical use.]  Water samples were also taken by FE-6 Walker from the EHS PWD (Potable Water Dispenser).     [Collected were one 1000mL sample for postflight chemical analysis & one 250mL sample for TOCA in-flight analysis from PWD-Ambient, plus one 125mL sample for microbial in-flight analysis & one 500mL sample for postflight microbial analysis from PWD-Hot.  For the in-flight chemistry/microbiology analysis, Shannon used MCDs (microbial capture devices) from the U.S. WMK (water microbiology kit) for treatment/processing after no more than 6 hours of the collection (done ~12:00pm EDT).  Sample analysis included subsequent processing of water samples in the MWAK (microbial water analysis kit) for inflight coliform bacteria (Escherichia coli) detection.  Results of the on-board processing will be available after a two-day incubation period (T+2d), in case of the MWAK after 4-6 days of incubation.]  Doug had ~1h50m reserved for more EVA tools & equipment gathering & preparation in support of the two ULF5 spacewalks.  Kaleri completed the periodic transfer of condensate water to an RS (Russian Segment) EDV container for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen & (waste) hydrogen, filling the designated KOV (condensate water) EDV container from a CWC.  When filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.    [The ~40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the Elektron’s BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.]  FE-3 set up the video equipment to capture the workout sessions of himself, Shannon & Wheels on the ARED advanced resistive exerciser for subsequent biomechanical evaluation of the crewmember and hardware status at MCC-H.  After yesterday’s familiarization review of the new CFE ICF-1 (Capillary Flow Experiment Interior Corner Flow 1) experiment, Scott today set up the hardware in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and performed the required fluid test runs using the ICF-1 vessel/hardware, with the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) turned temporarily on for ground video.  Later, the equipment was torn down and stored away.     [Realtime HD (high definition) video was required for the first 15 min to verify camera setup; recorded HD video was required for the entire duration.  Setup activities included unstowing CFE hardware, preparing the MWA (Maintenance Work Area, work surface only), securing the CFE hardware on the MWA, and positioning the HD (High Definition) camcorder.  The CFE hardware was later torn down and placed in stowage with the video tapes, and the MWA and camcorder put away.  CFE is a suite of fluid physics experiments that investigate capillary flows and flows of fluids in containers with complex geometries.  CFE takes advantage of the station’s micro-G environment to investigate the special dynamics of capillary flow, i.e., the interaction of liquid with solid that can draw a fluid up a narrow tube and can be exploited to control fluid orientation so that fluid systems on spacecraft perform predictably.  Interest is in the critical wetting angles for various container geometries and determination of the hysteresis to a higher accuracy than before.  CFE results will have applications to management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  ICF (Interior Corner Flow) is one of three CFE experiments, the others being Vane Gap (VG) and Contact Line (CL).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]  Working in Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Shannon continued her support of the JAXA experiment HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions), started yesterday successfully by ground specialists.  The current experiment will run until 10/22 (Friday).      [After having detached the 4 MEUs B (Measurement Experiment Units B) from the CBEF IU 1G (Cell Biology Experiment Facility Incubator Unit for 1G), Shannon injected water in 2 HydroTropi chambers and saline (salt water) in the remaining 2 chambers.   Two MEUs were then installed in the CBEF IU 1G, the other two in CBEF IU Micro-g.  One of the major purposes of this experiment is to see if roots of cucumber seedlings will bend toward water when they grow in microgravity.  Another purpose is to determine the mechanism by which roots bend.  A root bends when its two sides grow differently, i.e., when the convex side grows faster than the concave side, the root bends as a result.  A plant hormone called "auxin" plays a role in this mechanism.  Auxin promotes or suppresses plant growth depending on its concentration in plants.  If auxin has a greater effect on one side of a root, growth on this side is suppressed.  Then, why does auxin work differently in the two sides of the root?  Do some hidden substances control the action of auxin?  It is another major purpose of the experiment to study the substances-the genes that control the action of auxin.]  In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-6 Walker set up the G1 video camcorder for downlinking coverage of her activities live with audio commentary via MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter), then serviced the BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) payload for Sample 8 operations.  Scott Kelly assisted.      [Today’s steps involved homogenizing Sample 8 for long-term crystal observation, checking for crystals, then photographing the sample manually using the EarthKAM DCS 760 digital camera and initiating automatic photography using the Intervalometer and KODAK Camera Manager instead of the currently failed EarthKAM application.  The sample is now being photographed automatically with electronic flash every hour for 21 days, and the pictures are downlinked via OCA during nominal OCA downlink sessions.]  In the U.S. A/L (Airlock), FE-3 Kelly initiated the first round of EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) battery recharging in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly), then initiated the second round.  Working on the new VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Monitor), Walker opened its helium valve #2 one turn, then closed the access door again and re-attached the acoustic blanket.  In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Doug Wheelock supported ground-commanded containment (i.e., leak tightness) testing on the BLB (Biolab) Incubator and HM (Handling Mechanism) by covering the BLB incubator port lid and separating (isolating) the individual incubator and HM compartments with Kapton tape.  Oleg Skripochka performed the periodic inspection of the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor’s sediment trap insert (VU) in the SM.    [The Russian SRVK-2M converts collected condensate into drinking water and dispenses the reclaimed potable water.]  After completing recharge of its battery, FE-1 Kaleri installed the hardware of the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment at SM window #1 and then used it to observe & measure the high-rate interaction spectra of the Earth’s ionosphere.     [Using the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #1, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]  Alex performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  FE-1 also completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  The three 24S crewmembers, Kaleri, Skripochka & Kelly, again had an hour each set aside for crew onboard orientation.    [During the first two weeks after their arrival, a new ISS crew will have 1 hour a day (or more if needed) to adjust to living in space.]  Fyodor Yurchikhin completed the periodic recharging of the Motorola Iridium-9505A satellite phone located in Soyuz TMA-19/23S (docked at MRM1), a monthly routine job and Fyodor’s 4th.      [After retrieving the phone from its location in the spacecraft Descent Module (BO), Fyodor initiated the recharge of the lithium-ion batteries, monitoring the process every 10-15 minutes as it took place.  Upon completion, the phone was returned inside its SSSP Iridium kit and stowed back in the BO’s ODF (operational data files) container.  The satphone accompanies returning ISS crews on Soyuz reentry & landing for contingency communications with SAR (Search-and-Rescue) personnel after touchdown (e.g., after an “undershoot” ballistic reentry, as happened during the 15S return).  The Russian-developed procedure for the monthly recharging has been approved jointly by safety officials.  During the procedure, the phone is left in its fire-protective fluoroplastic bag with open flap.  The Iridium 9505A satphone uses the Iridium constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to relay the landed Soyuz capsule's GPS (Global Positioning System) coordinates to helicopter-borne recovery crews.  The older Iridium-9505 phones were first put on board Soyuz in August 2003.  The newer 9505A phone, currently in use, delivers 30 hours of standby time and three hours of talk, up from 20 and two hours, respectively, on the older units.]  Before sleeptime, Yurchikhin will set up the Russian MBI-12 payload and start his 9th Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  At ~3:00am, Wheels powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 3:05am conducted a ham radio session with students at Carine Primary School, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.     [Crew note downlink from CDR:  “These kids were absolutely precious!  Thank you for the opportunity.  Very successful HAM Radio contact.”]  At ~7:55am, Kaleri & Skripochka supported a Russian PAO TV event, downlinking a message of congratulation & greetings to the 50th Anniversary of the Cooperative Institute of High Temperature of the Russian Academy of Science.     [The Institute has successfully cooperated with RSC-Energia for many years in implementing joint space experiments (Plasma Crystal).  This greeting will be aired tomorrow, 10/20.]  At ~9:55am EDT, Fyodor had his weekly PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- & Ku-band audio/video.  At ~1:20pm, Wheelock, Kelly & Walker participated in a PAO TV interview with “The Eric Winston Show” of KILT Radio, Houston, TX, moderated by Houston Texans lineman Eric Winston and KILT Radio’s Rich Lord & Robert Henslee.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-3) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  Reboost:   A one-burn reboost of ISS is scheduled tomorrow afternoon at 3:41pm EDT using the Progress 39P DPO rendezvous & docking thrusters.  Planned burn duration: 228.7 sec; delta-V: 0.55 m/s.    CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Cape Town, South Africa (looking nadir.  Images of greater Cape Town are requested for mapping purposes.  Cape Town has experienced enormous sprawl eastwards onto the Cape Flats where very extensive shanty towns have developed.  There has been a progressive immigration not only from other parts of South Africa, but from many countries in Africa south of the Sahara), Lake Poopo, Bolivia (looking right of track.  Lake levels in Poopo are generally affected by El Niño episodes, often filling in this shallow lake.  With the weakening of the current El Niño CEO staff expects to see the lake levels rise.  ISS imagery will add to existing time series imagery of the fluctuations in Poopo), and Suva, Fiji (looking left of track.  Suva is the largest city and capital of Fiji and lies on the southeast coast of the island Viti Levu).  