
Payloads
Payload Network Attached Storage (PL NAS):  In an effort to resolve issues with the PL NAS, which is currently unresponsive, the crew rebooted the unit.  More troubleshooting will be required, and there are no immediate impacts.  The Payload NAS is a file server with five hard drive bays that provides a total of twenty terabytes of raw disk space when used with four terabyte hard drives.  Among other capabilities, the PL NAS supports user file transfers from their machine via web browser, and allows onboard ISS systems to access a shared folder location on the NAS. 
Phospho-Aging (PA): The crew collected blood and urine samples in support of the PA investigation.  JAXA’s Phospho-aging Mechanism of Accelerated Aging Under Microgravity (Phospho-aging) examines the molecular mechanism behind aging-like symptoms, such as bone loss and muscle atrophy, that occur more rapidly in microgravity. Using analysis of human premature-aging syndromes (progeria) in mouse models, scientists identified calciprotein particles (CPPs) as a pro-aging factor in mammals. CPPs behave like a pathogen, inducing chronic inflammation and systemic tissue damage that could be the mechanism behind accelerated aging in space.
Rhodium Inflight Biomanufacturing: The crew removed science chambers 6-10 from their ambient stowage location, took photos of the science chambers, and then placed them in MELFI.  Establishing Biomanufacturing Processes for Human Systems in Remote Environments (Rhodium Inflight Biomanufacturing) examines the effects of spaceflight on microbial production processes. Recent studies show that spaceflight affects the composition and function of microbial communities. A better understanding of these effects could help harness microbial production to produce key chemical compounds needed on space missions as well as in remote, resource-limited locations on Earth.
Systems
Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMU) 3008/3009 Loop Scrub, and Iodination: The crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity on units 3008 and 3009. In addition, the ground team took action to rollback the EDaR software on EMU 3008. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization Onboard Training (OBT): The crew completed the Emergency Hardware OBT which is designed to familiarize the crew with the locations of equipment and the positions of valves used in emergencies as well as practice communication from the Russian Segment (RS) modules in case of emergency.
On-Orbit Sampling: The crew deployed two Formaldehyde Monitoring Kits (FMKs) in designated sample locations for post-flight analysis of on-orbit formaldehyde levels. The crew also used a Grab Sample Container (GSC) to collect instantaneous air samples for post-flight analysis. Sampling is performed every 45 days.
Completed Task List Activities:

Microgravity Sciences Glovebox (MSG) Cargo Transfer Bags (CTB)s Audit [on-going]
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 System (T2) Monthly Inspection

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Ground Support for RRM Ops (Thruster Ops, Video Supt, LS FDIR Inh/Ena)


IAS Config for EMER OBT
UHF 1 activation/deactivation for EMU activities
Airlock LTL Init/Term (for EMU Loop Scrub)
Lab MCA Zero Calibration
EMU Data Recorder (EDaR) Firmware Rollback
Crew Email Migration (Exchange 2010 to Exchange 2016 servers)

