
63 Progress (63P) Undock: 63P undocked successfully from the Service Module (SM) aft port this morning at 4:37 AM CDT. Deorbit burn was completed at 7:50 AM CDT followed by atmospheric entry and destruction. 
Vascular Echo Resting Ultrasound: FE-5 performed Vascular Echo resting ultrasound and blood pressure measurements this morning.  With assistance from ground remote guidance teams, he was directed to scan the neck, thigh and heart.  This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health, and quality of life for everyone.
Blood Collections:  FE-6, with assistance from FE-5, performed blood collections in support of several Human Research Experiments.  Samples were collected, spun in the refrigerated centrifuge and placed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for the Biochemical Profile, CardioOx, and Repository experiments. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. The goal of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15, and 60 after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health. Repository is a storage bank that is used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Collection – Subject
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Double Spin Collection
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Double Spin Configuration
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
Personal CO2 Monitor Doff and Charge
Closing Shutters on windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
USOS Window Shutter Close
Soyuz 731 Samsung Tablet Recharge, Initiate
Microbe IV Sampling Sheet and White Tube Collection
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Vascular Echo Resting Ultrasound Scan 135 Minutes – Subject
Preparation and Photography of Progress 432 Docking Assembly from SM Window No.26 during undocking from SM Aft
Switch ПрК-ТК PEV to CLOSED position
24-hour ECG Recording (start)
Microbe IV Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Conclude Stow
Vascular Echo CDL Holter Arterial BP Measurement – Subject
24-hour Blood Pressure Recording (start)
ISS HAM Radio Power Up
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Micro-G and 1G Wipe
Long Duration Sorbent Testbed Status Check.
Soyuz 731 Samsung tablet recharging, end
Strata Status Check
PK-4 data hard drives exchange
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Setup
Personal CO2 Monitor Donn
Robotic Workstation (RWS) High Definition (HD) Monitor Downlink
Pre-pack PK-4 Hard Drives for return stowage on Soyuz
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA) with EarQ Software Setup and Test
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
PK-4 Video Monitor Deinstallation
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and measurements.
Meteor Shutter Open
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Remote Workstation Monitor HD Video Downlink Deactivation RWS.
Personal CO2 Monitor Power Cycle

Completed Task List Items

Cup-PCS-Shell-Swap

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

63P Undock support
Vascular Echo support
SSRMS Configuration for Cygnus capture

