
Payloads
Onco-Selectors: Over the weekend the crew completed sample processing operations to prep the 12 well BioCells inside the Life Science Glovebox and inject the Glo Reagent into each of the samples. Leveraging Microgravity to Screen Onco-selective Messenger RNAs for Cancer Immunotherapy (Onco-Selectors) tests a biologic drug based on messenger RNA (mRNA) for treatment of leukemia. This mRNA-based drug is capable of differentiating cancer cells from healthy ones (onco-selective) and is designed to kill cancer cells (oncolytic). Recent studies show that microgravity alters cells by modifying the expression of certain proteins involved in mRNA translation, making it a unique platform for testing mRNAs to identify those that are onco-selective for clinical development.
Myotones (Muscle Tone in Space): The crew completed a Myotones session including blood collection and processing, and used the Myotones scanner to take readings on specific body muscle targets. Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation are expected to provide insight into principles of human resting muscle tone, which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions.
Rhodium Space Rhizosphere: The crew removed the ten sample chambers from the POLAR facilities and placed them in a temporary stowage location within a mesh bag. Soil Health in Space: Determination of Gravitational Effects on Soil Stability for Controlled Environment Agriculture (Rhodium Space Rhizosphere) examines the effects of spaceflight on the soil aggregates formed by fungi and bacteria. Recent studies have shown a connection between biological activity, aggregation formation, and the overall capacity of soils to sustainably produce nutritious food crops. A better understanding of fungal and bacterial structures and functions in soil could improve food production on Earth and in space.
Bacterial Genome Fitness: The crew removed the two Group Activation Packs (GAP) from incubation and terminated the samples and placed the samples into Cold Stowage. Scientists know what happens to plants and animals in microgravity, but understand very little about how bacteria are affected. Most previous research used ground-based techniques to simulate microgravity and looked at only one or two specific bacterial processes. Whole Genome Fitness of Bacteria Under Microgravity (Bacterial Genome Fitness) grows multiple types of bacteria in space and comprehensively examines what processes are important to their growth.
Systems
63S Launch and Dock Preparations: Preparations continue for 63S launch and dock planned for this Wednesday, October 14.
Completed Task List Activities:

62S pre-pack [Active]
Cygnus cargo ops [Active]

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

S-Band string 1 configured to hot backup
Enable S-Band FDIR Express

