
68 Progress (68P) docking:  Saturday morning, 68P launched from Baikonur after a two day delay.  This morning, 68P docked successfully to DC1 nadir, bringing supplies to the ISS.
JAXA Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) #13 Installation:  Following the docking of 68P,  a crewmember stowed two canister bags containing protein samples in the JAXA Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle 2 (J-FROST2). This experiment will run from today through removal for return on Soyuz 51S.  The canisters contain protein samples prepared by Japanese and Russian researchers from universities, national research institutes, and the private sector. The purpose of this activity is to obtain high quality protein crystals in the microgravity environment at 20 degrees C for about 9 weeks. The results obtained by JAXA PCG #13 contribute to the development of drugs for multidrug-resistant bacteria, Alzheimer’s disease, muscular dystrophy and periodontitis. They will also aid in the development of a blood substitute and biosensor. 
Advanced Nano Step Microgravity Measurements Apparatus (MMA) Cable Connection: After successfully adjusting the position of the cell stage to resolve movement issues during sample observations last week; today the MMA cable connection to the medical laptop was completed to measure MMA data during the Advanced Nano Step experiment run.  JAXA’s Advanced Nano Step experiment investigates the relationship between impurity incorporation mechanisms and the quality of obtained protein crystals should be clarified for the progress to an “advanced” stage of the space utilization for structure-based drug design. In this mission, we observe the protein crystal growth surfaces of glucose isomerase crystals in space in the presence of various impurities with the use of a Michelson interferometer. In addition, we also clarify the crystal surface morphology on the molecular step level by using the laser confocal microscope. We evaluate the crystal quality of the returned crystals.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Repository): Today a 52S crewmember completed Flight Day (FD) 30 urine sample collections that began yesterday and blood sample collections in support of the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples are obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Fine Motor Skills (FMS): A 51S crewmember completed a Flight Day 80 FMS session, where the subject performs a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation studies how fine motor skills are affected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of FMS is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
USOS Extra-Vehicular Activity (EVA) #46 Preparations:  Today the crew configured tools, reviewed EVA procedures, and conducted a conference with ground specialists in preparation for next week’s EVA. The goals of USOS EVA #46 include Removal and Replacement (R&R) of the degraded CP13 camera and R&R of the Latching End Effector (LEE) A Camera Lens Assembly (CLA).
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
МО-8. H/W set up
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
ISS HAM Radio Power Down
USOS Window Shutter Close
МО-8. Closeout Ops
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection
EML ON-Board Training
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
EML Gas Valves Opening
Photo TV Battery Charge Initiation
Check Closure of SM window shutters 6,8,9,12,13,14 Note 5
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
MDLT MMA Cable Connect
Charging EVA Camera D4 Battery
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
Auxiliary Laptop Computer System Virus Definition File Update
Fine Motor Skills Experiment Test – Subject
СОЖ maintenance
MPEG2 Multicast Test via Ku-band (Activation/Deactivation of TV data and MPEG2 Multicast controls).
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
BIOPLENKA. Activation of [ТБУ-В] thermostat #5 in +4C mode
Preparation for Progress 437 Docking
Fluids Integrated Rack Hardware Gather
Progress 437 Docking to DC1
Activation of MPEG2 Multicast TV Monitoring Equipment. Tagup with specialists
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuring
Activation of mpeg2 multicast video recording mode
PROGRESS 437 DOCKING TO DC1, Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops after Docking
Camera Light Assembly Retrieval
Photo TV Battery Charge Swap
Closing Applications and Downlink of MPEG2 Multicast video via OCA
Miniature Exercise Device Surface Pro 3 Charge
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Hatch Seal Inspection
Z1 Dome Egress
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Camera Light Assembly Configuring
Glacier  Sample Transfer to MELFI
ТКГ 437 and DC1 Interface Leak Check
Handover. Leak Check, Hatch Opening, Installation of Quick Release Screw Clamps (ЗВБ)
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
DC1-СУ Hatch Opening
Opening of Progress-[СУ] Transfer Hatch
Quick-disconnect screw clamps (БЗВ) installation
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
WRM CWC Stowage
Physical Fitness Evaluation (on the treadmill)
COLLECTING AIR SAMPLES USING АК-1М SAMPLER IN PROGRESS 437
Progress 437 Deactivation, Air Duct Installation
MELFI 2 Ice Brick Insert 1
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Progress 437 (DC1) Transfers of Critical, Priority and US Cargo Items, and IMS Ops
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
KRISTALLIZATOR. PCG Transfer from Progress, Inspection, and Handover to USOS
KRISTALLIZATOR. Photo of PCG Kit Handover from USOS
JAXA PCG Sample Installation
Transfer of Konyugatsiya, Produtsent, Bioplenka, Konstanta-2 from Progress and Setup in Thermostat at +4 deg C
Miniature Exercise Device Procedure Review
STRUKTURA. Luch-2 Hardware Transfer from Progress
Portable Onboard Computers (POC) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software Review
STRUKTURA. Process Activation and Stowage. Tagup with specialists
STRUKTURA. Photo during the Experiment and at Exposure Location
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB)/Metal Oxide (METOX) Installation
MICROVIR. Transfer from Progress
Photography of traces left by Active Docking Mechanism Probe on DC1 Passive Mechanism Receiving Cone
MICROVIR. Removal of Cassette-M No.3-1 and No.3-2 from the kit and deployment on panel
Photo TV Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) Camera Turnaround
Downlink Photos of Docking Cone Internal Surface via OCA
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Conference
ISS HAM Radio Power Up
Photo TV Battery Charge Deactivation
Preparation for Antivirus Scanning on [ВКС] Laptops

Completed Task List Activities

ESA-PAO-RCROSS
MAGVECTOR USB stick  Restow at MagVector Front Panel
Photo/TV RED 960GB SSD Stow
Photo TV Node 2 AVN443 HD Encoder Move
Portable Computer System (PCS) 1553 Card Remove and Replace
VEG-03 Plant Pillow Water X2
Wanted Poster for Clean Room Gloves

Ground Activities
All activities were copmpleted unless otherwise noted.

Standard commanding

