10-19-2009October 19, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/19/09  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Underway: Week 2 of Increment 21.  Crew wake/sleep cycle is back to “normal” workday:  2:00am – 5:30pm EDT.  FE-5 Williams had Day 5 of the sleep shift sequence for the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS).     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following the sleep shift.]  FE-4 Thirsk supported once again the weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.     [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.]   FE-3 Romanenko performed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System by starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #1 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated tonight at ~5:15pm before crew bedtime, followed tomorrow by Bed #2 regeneration.  (Last time done: 9/28-9/29).     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods.  The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days.]  FE-1 Suraev & Romanenko spent two hours each with cargo transfers from the newly-arrived Progress M-03M/35P, logging equipment moves in the IMS (Inventory Management System).  Later, still working in the TKG cargo ship, Maxim Suraev installed the LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system, along with its ROM unit (read-only memory, TA765B), a 1-hr. job. The units are recycled from an earlier vehicle.  The LKT was subsequently switched on by the ground to complete the basic configuration.     [At a later time, the Russian flight engineers will complete the electronic integration of 35P into the ISS by installing the standard US-21matching unit, another 1-hr. task.  The US-21 matching unit connects the SM with the Progress motion control and DPO thrusters systems, so that they can be commanded by the SM computer system (BVS).  After bolting the box down, the cosmonauts will hook up its the telemetry (TM) connector to the BITS2-12 onboard TM system on Go from TsUP, after Moscow had inhibited data output to the VD-SU control system mode, powered off the BITS and deactivated the running SKV air conditioner. These systems will subsequently be turned back on.  Afterwards, the Progress thrusters will be test fired to insure their functionality in providing attitude control for ISS.  35P is then fully incorporated into the steering logic for the ISS.]  FE-4 Thirsk checked & reported the bar code numbers of the next KTO Solid Waste Container assembly to be used in the U.S. WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) when needed.    [Body - 00116308J; bottom - 00112727J.]  Afterwards, Bob started (later terminated) another 5-hr automatic sampling run (the 38th) with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-4 (Station Support Computer 4) laptop.     [The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  Today’s data will again to be compared with VOA and GSC (Grab Sample Container) measurements.  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.  Yesterday, the AQM suffered a temporary “crash” in the middle of the run but was subsequently restored with a reboot (power-cycle).  There is a possible loss of some scientific data.]  In the Lab, FE-2 Stott & FE-4 Thirsk had more than 4 hrs for major outfitting work on the FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack, loc. LAB1S4), i.e., installing the sophisticated ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) hardware.     [The job required the temporary removal of the CEVIS cycle ergometer plus the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) and its EDV container, to make room for rotating the FIR rack away from the wall.  The crew then had to remove one rack side access panel, take out eight launch restraint bolts, replace the panel and then repeat for other three rack side access panels.  The installation of ARIS was next, followed by disconnecting the FIR Accumulator QD (quick disconnect) from the rack UIP (Utility Interface Panel) connection.  Afterwards, the crew was to re-install the CEVIS and the TOCA with its EDV.  Designed to attenuate external vibration disturbances of payload racks, ARIS is quite different from traditional shock absorbers by working with active feedback control.  This is done with accelerometers to measure vibration disturbances, an electronic unit to process the data, eight actuators with pushrods for applying compensatory (counteracting) forces against the framework of the station in response to signals from the *electronic unit that are calculated to "counteract" the disturbances measured by the accelerometers, and microgravity rack barriers (“snubbers”) that prevent accidental disturbance of the active ARIS rack.  Before regular operation, ARIS is being checked out and calibrated this week by the ground in order to fine-tune the multiple-component system.]  In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Jeff Williams undertook his first (FD15) ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Resting Echo session as Subject, assisted by Nicole Stott as CMO (Crew Medical Officer), not yesterday as reported erroneously.     [Wearing electrodes, ECG (Electrocardiograph) cable & VOX, Jeff underwent the ultrasound scan for the Resting Echo mode of ICV, with video being recorded from the HRF (Human Research Facility) Ultrasound and COL cabin camera.  After confirmed file transfer, the gear was powered down and stowed. The ultrasound echo experiment uses the Image Collector software on the laptop and requires VOX/Voice plus RT Video downlink during the activity.  Goal of the ICV experiment is to quantify the extent, time course, and clinical significance of cardiac atrophy and identify its mechanisms.  The experiment consists of two separate but related activities over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).  The FD75 echo scan includes an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.]  The FE-5 performed troubleshooting on the failed MELFI-2 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 2), cycling/reconnecting the four male/female QDs (quick disconnects) on the EU (Electronic Unit).     [After MELFI-2 on 10/12 had suffered an anomaly which resulted in shutdown of the Brayton motor on 10/12, Frank De Winne attempted to replace its EU with a new spare on 10/15, spilling about half a gallon of ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) coolant fluid (water, ~19% of an ITCS accumulator) in the process due to a leaking QD (“fully stuck open”).  MELFI-2 is needed 3½ weeks before ULF3 to provide ice bricks for sample return.  The ITCS is stable and is providing cooling to all loads.  Safety note: Water leakage is not considered a safety issue until a threshold of 1 gallon is reached.]  For several hours, Williams & De Winne shuttled back & forth between the HTV (H-II Transfer Vehicle) and the Kibo JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment), transferring resupply to the JLP and stowing excessed cargo on the HTV in final preparation for its unberthing next week (10/30).  Later, Frank was scheduled for a tagup with ground specialists for a status report.    [Up to 787 kg could be loaded onto HTV1, with a current maximum pegged at 725 kg, which required a time-consuming process of prioritizing all disposed items, supported with the IMS and ground-produced lists.  Further JAXA analysis may allow additional margin above 725 kg max.  The Russian trash request initially was 50 kg, plus additional items up to total of approximately 160 kg.  The late changes have obligated the HTV Flight Control Team to recalculate and fine tune more than 100 parameters for proper GNC (Guidance, Navigation & Control) of the spacecraft during its departure on 10/30.]   Nicole Stott performed troubleshooting on the COLBERT treadmill (T2), loading a data recovery batch file onto T2 and checked out the T2 RSP (Rack Power Switch).  Suraev did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Maxim also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Romanenko powered up the Russian RSK1 laptop and installed new software (vers. 2.1) on it, specifically developed for the TORU teleoperated rendezvous & docking system for the new digital-avionics Progress-M, Progress M-MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2) simulators, and Soyuz TMA relocation.  The “Sigma” BNO (Ballistic & Navigation Support Program) application on RSK1 (which computes real-time position of the ISS over the ground) was also refreshed.  Afterwards, Roman updated or swapped the onboard RODF (Russian Operations Data File) books with new material delivered on Progress M-03M.    [RODFs are kept in ten procedural books on subjects such as Thermal Control System (SOTR), Life Support System (SOZh), Fire Protection System (SPPZ), Technical Experiments, Medical Experiments, Manual Controls (RSU), Electrical Power Systems (SEP), Guidance, Navigation & Control Systems (SUDN), etc.  Their update involved numerous pages plus transfer of an entire new book (on Progress M-03M/35P Cargo Transfer Ops).]  The FE-3 also retrieved an A31p laptop 28V DC power supply unit from US spares and transferred it to the RS3 laptop location (replacing the power supply unit which was returned to the ground in error).  FE-1 Suraev conducted the periodic maintenance on the deactivated Russian IK0501 GA (Gas Analyzer) of the SOGS Pressure Control & Atmospheric Monitoring System by replacing its CO2 filter assembly (BF) with a new unit from FGB stowage (done last: 9/7), then reactivating the unit (the old filter will be discarded),  Suraev then worked for about an hour on the BZh Liquid Unit of the Russian Elektron O2 generator, installing new 35P-delivered aerosol filters in gaps between the BZh and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) and hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).   [The new aerosol filters are to be inspected every morning and evening per plan, with photographs to be taken if filter packing is discolored.]  Afterwards, Maxim supported the ground-commanded activation of the Elektron at 24 amps by monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.    [The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.  Elektron had been turned off for the installation of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system in Progress and concomitant deactivation of VD-SU control system mode.]  Later, the FE-1 had an hour to himself for general orientation (station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.  FE-4 Thirsk performed the regular 30-day inspection of the AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack.     [The AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient.  It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.  AEDs are generally either held by trained personnel who will attend events or are public access units which can be found in places including corporate and government offices, shopping centers, airports, restaurants, casinos, hotels, sports stadiums, schools and universities, community centers, fitness centers, health clubs and any other location where people may congregate.]  FE-5 Williams assembled, configured and activated the U.S. EarthKAM (EK) hardware in Node-1 for a new session, powered by a Ku-band power supply unit relocated from the US Lab to Node-1 beforehand.  CDR De Winne is to take a situational photo of the setup.    [For focusing the camera, Jeff has to see the ground, i.e., during orbit day.  EK is using a DCS 760 electronic still camera with 50mm (f/1.4) lens at the Node-2 window, powered by 16Vdc from a 28V DC adapter, taking pictures by remote operation from the ground, without crew interaction.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students) is an education program that enables thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from the unique perspective of space, integrating the excitement of ISS with middle-school education.  The student requests are uplinked in a camera control file to an A31p SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop which then activates the camera at specified times and receives the digital images from the camera’s storage card on its hard drive, for subsequent downlink via OPS LAN.]  The crew performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).   Afterwards, Jeff Williams transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  No CEO (Crew Earth Observations) photo targets uplinked for today.  