
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments/Cool Flames Investigation with Gasses (CIR/ACME/CFI-G part 1 repeat):  The crew removed an empty 30% butane (CH3CH2CH2CH3)/70% N2 fuel bottle and installed another 30% butane/70% N2 fuel bottle.  They also replaced an empty 40% O2/60% N2 bottle with another one of the same composition.  Spherical Cool Diffusion Flames Burning Gaseous Fuels (Cool Flames Investigation with Gases) observes the chemical reactions of cool diffusion flames. Diffusion flames are created by supplying fuel to a burner and mixing in ambient air for combustion. Cool flames, which burn at relatively low temperatures of ~600 degrees C, are nearly impossible to create in Earth’s gravity, but are easily created in microgravity; studying them may improve the understanding of combustion and fires on Earth.
HRF-Veggie Profile of Mood States (POMS): Using the Data Collection Tool (DCT) on an available Station Support computer (SSC), the crew completed their POMS questionnaires.  The research of HRF Veg focuses on the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space for various plants grown by other investigations.  Plants in space have potential countermeasure benefits. Fresh vegetables offer flavor, sensory, and texture variety to the pre-packaged ISS diet. Taking care of the plants provides sensory stimulation and helps mark the passage of time in the confined and isolated environment of ISS.
Manufacturing Device (ManD):  The crew removed the printed object, cleaned the extruder print nozzle, photographed, and stow the printed object.  The Manufacturing Device enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the ManD printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. ManD is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Toilet: The crew checked the system for adequate pretreat dosing and filled out a questionnaire.  The Toilet System is an Exploration Tech Demo that has evolved into a permanent USOS system.  The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS).  The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for USOS for up to 90-crew-days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent WHC/Toilet operations.
Systems:
EVA Operations:  Today, the crew performed a number of EVA tasks as part of their “Road to EVA.” These tasks included EVA Tool Gather, EVA Battery Terminal File Downlink, EVA Dry Wipe Gather, and EVA Safety Tether Repair.
Crew Alternate Sleeping Accommodation (CASA) Outfitting:  Today, the crew worked to prepare the CASA in the COL1O4 rack bay by installing a CASA light dimmer wheel on the light panel control box, routing power for a ZBook and iPad, and deploying a sleeping bag and emergency flashlight. CASA is a crew accommodation located in the Columbus module that can host a 5th United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) crewmember when needed during periods of increased crew capacity. When not used as a crew accommodation, CASA will be used for storage.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Regenerative Oxygen Generation Assembly Hydrogen Remove and Replace Support
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) PowerUp
Video Distribution Subsystem (VDS) Robotics Ground Configuration
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) IDA-F Surveys
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Powerdown
Video Distribution Subsystem (VDS) Robotics Ground Deconfiguration
CASA Caution & Warning Config
Internal Audio Subsystem (IAS) Crew Quarter (CQ) Audio Cable Configuration

