
Cardio Ox Ultrasound Operations: With remote guidance from the Cardio Ox ground teams, FE-5 assisted FE-6 in conducting an ultrasound scan after configuring the Voice-Activated Communication (VOX), attaching the Electrocardiograms (ECG) Electrodes, and marking the arteries; followed by blood pressure measurements using the Cardiolab Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Unit. The goal of the Cardio Ox investigation is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health. 
Marrow: FE-6 collected breath and ambient air samples in support of the Canadian Space Agency’s Marrow experiment.  The Marrow investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on the bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
Cygnus Preparations:  FE-5 and FE-6 utilized training materials as part of a self-study session this morning to review Cygnus hardware, stowage and attached phase configuration. FE-6 also installed the Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) system onto the Node 1 nadir hatch.  Following the installation the crew, working with ground teams, checked out the system. The checkout involved routing the video from the camera to the Cupola Robotics Work Station (RWS) monitors and to the ground. Video from the CBCS is used to aid the crew during Visiting Vehicle mating operations.  The crew also participated in a conference with ground teams to discuss Cygnus cargo operations. Orbital ATK (OA)-5 is scheduled to launch on October 16, with rendezvous and berthing on October 19th.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

PK-4 data hard drives exchange
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Attached Phase Operations review.
Personal CO2 Monitor iPad Application Restart
PK4 Pre-pack hard drives before return on Soyuz
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) On Board Training (OBT)
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Attached Phase Operations review.
Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Setup – Subject
PK-4 Experiment Run 3
Dose Tracker Data Entry Subject
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) and Vestibule Outfitting Kit Equipment Gather
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ)
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Setup
HRF Generic Urine Collection Setup
Cygnus Cargo Operations Review
PK-4 Chamber filling with Cleaning gas [Aborted]
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Cardio Ox Ultrasound Scan – Operator
Cardio Ox CDL Holter Arterial BP Measurement – Subject
ISS HAM Radio Power Down
Cardio Ox CDL Holter Arterial BP Hardware Doff Alternate – Subject
Sony HVR-Z7E setup in SM  (for SM Aft-Progress interface video) 
Progress 432 [AO] Activation, Air Duct Removal
Personal CO2 Monitor Power Cycle
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ)
Cygnus Cargo Operations Conference
Removal of Quick-Release Screw Clamps and Video Recording of SM Aft –Progress 432 Interface
SM Aft-Progress 432 [AO] Hatch Closure
ПрК-СУ and Progress- СУ hatch leak check
MELFI Ice Brick Insert
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Deactivation of Sony HVR-Z7E camcorder and closing of NASA MPEG-2 Viewer application
PK-4 Chamber filling with Neon gas [Aborted]
Biological Rhythms 48 Actiwatch Preparation
Personal CO2 Monitor Power Cycle
PK-4 Gas Supply Flexhose disconnection for storage

Completed Task List Items

Pretreat Electronic Indicator Locate [item was not located in recommended search locations]
N1 Aft Hatch Seal Clean

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Traveling Wave Tube Amplifier (TWTA) Activation
CIR Venting
CBCS Checkout
System configuration for 63P clamp uninstall 

