
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Anomaly: Shortly after Crew wake, the Crew reported all lights were off on the WHC Control Panel and the associated power switch was in the off/tripped position. Attempts to reactivate WHC were not successful. The crew then performed troubleshooting steps in order to isolate the problem to the WHC Pump Separator. The Pump Separator was successfully replaced with an onboard spare. WHC is now operating nominally.
Lighting Effects: A crewmember recorded Light Meter readings for an empty crew quarter compartment. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): Crew replaced the Gas Bottle for ELF as ground teams discovered that the previous bottle is currently depleted. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Actiwatch Spectrum: The Actiwatch Spectrum hardware was setup for checkout and then stowed by the ISS crew. The Actiwatch Spectrum is a waterproof, nonintrusive, sleep-wake monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. The device contains an accelerometer for measuring motion and color sensitive photodiodes (a photodetector capable of converting light into voltage) for monitoring ambient lighting. Together, these capabilities enable the Actiwatch Spectrum to be used to analyze circadian rhythms, sleep-wake patterns, and activity.
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) / Electric-Field Effects on Laminar Diffusion (E-FIELD) Flames: The crew replaced the Manifold 4 bottle and the ground will be downlinking files from ACME test points and monitoring the bottle pressure. For E-Field Flames an electric field with voltages as high as 10,000 volts is established between the burner and a mesh electrode. The motion of the charged ions, which are naturally produced within the flame, are strongly affected by a high-voltage electric field. The resulting ion-driven wind can dramatically influence the stability and sooting behavior of the flame. Conducting the tests in microgravity allows for great simplifications in the analysis, enabling new understanding and the development of less polluting and more efficient combustion technology for use on Earth.
Life Support Rack (LSR): The crew prepared the O2 generator, performed the Red Helium Camera setup, and performed a meter reading. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. LSR captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR operates for a minimum of one year on the International Space Station to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Aerosol Samplers: All Sampler drawers were closed and stowed. The Samplers have individual drawer-like surfaces covered with sticky carbon tape that will capture aerosols in the ISS air. Aerosols are small particles suspended in the air. In the Earth’s atmosphere they include soot, dust, pollen and a wide range of other natural and human-made materials. Because smoke and dust do not move in microgravity the way they do on Earth, aerosols in the ISS air pose hazards for crewmembers. The Aerosol Samplers investigation collects airborne particles in the ISS cabin air and returns them to Earth so scientists can study the particles with powerful microscopes.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


WHC Troubleshooting

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Thursday, 10/11:
Payloads:


JAXA PCG Canister  Install (JAXA)
Team Task Switching Survey (NASA)
Food Acceptability (NASA)
BCAT Camera Activity (NASA)
Actiwatch Donning (NASA)
Myotones Hardware Gather (JAXA)
BER Express Rack 10 Locker Removals (NASA)
NanoRacks Platform 3 Relocate (NASA)
Z-book Software Loads for LSG (NASA)
PS-120 Junction Box Install for LSG (JAXA)

Systems

56S Launch and Docking
ISS Safety Briefing 

Friday, 10/12:
Payloads:


JAXA PCG Canister Installation (JAXA)
Actiwatch Spectrum Data Retrieve Ops (NASA)
Myotones Measurements (JAXA)
Sextant Payload Operations-6 (NASA)

Systems:

Tool Configuration in preparation for EVA October 19
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities review with all crewmembers

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Record COP24 script
EVA Procedure Review for Suit IV
International Procedure Viewer Tablet Questionnaire
Spacetex-2 questionnaire filling
Visual inspection and leak check, using US leak detector ULD in the orbital compartment [БО] of Soyuz №739. Report to MCC during comm pass
Record UN Forum Script
Record VDE Summit Script
Handover Big Picture Words Review
PAO Deferred Release Message for Task List for FE-6; 2018 MassChallenge Awards
Sextant Navigation Payload Proficiency
IMS Delta File Prep
Photo and Video Recording about life onboard the ISS
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
Visual Inspection and Leak Monitoring Using US ULD Leak Detector in Soyuz 739 Orbital Module. Report to MCC
ECON-M. Observation and photography
TIME Perception experiment (Deferred)
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
mobiPV Setup
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. HAM Radio Session with CosmoFest Vostochny Festival in Blagoveshchensk
Life Support Rack Air Water Management Drawer Preparation
JEM Airlock Depressurization
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) – Manifold 4 Bottle Replacement
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Gas Bottle Unit (GBU) Replacement
Imagery 8K Life Support Rack Record
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) – Upper Rack Doors Closing
Lighting Effects Light Meter Setup
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill Part 3
Lighting Effects Light Meter Readings
Magnetic 3D Bioprinter. Installation of ТБУ-В Thermostat #02
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
Test File Downlink from Central Post Laptop using Software Telemetry
Crew Quarters Outfitting for New Crewmembers
Lighting Effects Light Meter Stow
JEM Airlock Vent
IMPACT. Take Photographs of Impact #1 Tray from the Window of DC1 EV Hatch 1
JEM Airlock Vent Confirmation
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Setup
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Kazbek Fitcheck (Soyuz #739)
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Stow Operation
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Swap
АСУ Set Replacement
Aerosol Passive Samplers Hardware Stowage
ISS HAM Columbus Pass
mobiPV Stowage
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Stow
HTV Transfer Operations (Deferred)
Life Support Rack Oxygen Generation Drawer Preparation
Replacement of the Urine Receptacle (МП) and Filter-Insert (Ф-В) in the ACY (Aborted)
АСУ Activation Post-R&R (Deferred)
Support Oxygen Generator alignment
HTV Cargo Operations Conference (Deferred)
ISS HAM Radio Power Down in Service Module
ISS HAM Radio Power Down in Columbus
USOS Window Shutter Close

 