
Payloads:
Bio-Analyzer:  Crewmembers upload a new Bio-Monitor Application configuration file from an SSC to their iPad. The crew then opened the new Bio-Monitor App configuration file on their iPad and confirmed the overwrite to the internal database with the new file.  Bio-Analyzer is a Canadian Space Agency (CSA) onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the International Space Station (ISS). The instrument performs on-orbit quantification of biological molecules and cellular composition in samples collected and prepared aboard the ISS.
Edible Foam:  A crewmember inspected the Edible Foam in the Food Processor Consumables Kit, performed an egg white hydration test, and completed the EveryWear Questionnaire.  There was some water leakage noted during the egg white hydration, possibly due to a design issue.  Edible foam is made from PHA, a naturally occurring polymer synthesized by bacteria.  It offers a high level of protection from isolated shocks and vibrations, which is particularly important during flights into space.
Eklosion:  The Capsule was unplugged from Eklosion and photos were taken in the Cupola in Node 3. The crew then deinstalled the hardware.  The Eklosion investigation utilizes a vase, inspired by the VEGGIE plant growth facility, specially designed for use in the microgravity environment aboard the ISS.  Eklosion contains within its hull small messages and smells from Earth for the psychological benefit of the crew member who conducts the investigation.
Fluids Integrated Rack/Light Microscopy Module (FIR/LMM):  A crewmember removed the processed ACE-T1 Module from inside the LMM AFC, installed the LMM Confocal Test Target, and dispensed immersion oil on the target.  The test target allows a flat field characterization test to be performed.  These will be some of the final activities for LMM before its removal and the installation of a different science module.  Photos were taken of the overall view of ACE Module capillaries.  The LMM is a modified commercial, highly flexible, state-of-the-art light imaging microscope facility that provides researchers with powerful diagnostic hardware and software onboard the ISS.  The LMM enables novel research of microscopic phenomena in microgravity, with the capability of remotely acquiring and downloading digital images and videos across many levels of magnification.  The way that matter is organized and moves on the microscopic level profoundly affects the macroscopic world and an understanding of such processes helps scientists and engineers build more efficient materials and machines both for both the earth and space environments.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-19 (J-SSOD-19):  A crewmember Removed the J-SSOD-19 Multi (2 Deployers) from MPEP.  The JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS.  The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
NanoRacks CubeSats Deployer-21 (NRCSD-21):  A crewmember installed the NRCSD-21 hardware onto the MPEP.  The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD) is a self-contained CubeSat deployer system that mechanically and electrically isolates CubeSats and has been in operation since 2014. NRCSD-21 will be launching CAP Sat (Cooling, Annealing, and Pointing Satellite), PR-CuNa R2 (Puerto Rico CubeSat NanoRocks-2), and SPACE HAUC (Science Program Around Communications Engineering with High Achieving Undergraduate Cadres).
Plant Habitat-04:  A crewmember removed debris from the Science Carrier/Plant Habitat Facility and took photos from the top of the entire Science Carrier and of each of four quadrants of the Science Carrier.  Microgravity Growth of New Mexico Hatch Green Chile as a Technical Display of Advanced Plant Habitat’s Capabilities (Plant Habitat-04) demonstrates using the Advanced Plant Habitat (APH) by growing peppers in space for the first time. An excellent source of Vitamin C, peppers are more difficult to cultivate than many possible space crops because they take longer to germinate, grow, and develop fruit. The investigation includes microbial analysis to improve understanding of plant-microbe interactions in space and assessment of flavor and texture, which vary based on the growth environment and care such as amount of watering.
Rodent Research:  A crewmember performed an audit of Rodent Research supplies and trashed some items.  The Rodent Research Facility provides rodent housing on board the ISS.  Animal research is essential for understanding the impacts of spaceflight on the systems of the human body, and for development of potential therapies that will ease harmful responses to space flight.  The advisory panel for Animal and Human Biology appointed by the Committee for the Decadal Survey on Biological and Physical Sciences in Space was unanimous in its recommendation that an animal habitat be incorporated as soon as possible into the ISS.
Time Perception in Microgravity:  Crewmembers performed Time Perception experiment combined sessions.  The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time perception in microgravity is also fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. The Time Perception in Microgravity experiment quantifies the subjective changes in time perception in humans during and after long-duration exposure to microgravity.
Systems:
EVA Loop Scrub: The crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity on units 3004 and 3006. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
OBT ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization: The ISS Commander and newly arrived 65S crewmember, FE-4 Anton Shkaplerov, practiced communication with the RS and USOS in the event of an emergency. The Commander worked with FE-4 to familiarize him with USOS equipment as well as locations of the equipment and positions of valves used in emergencies.
JSL Pins Repair: Last week, the crew installed a new router and connected the JSL cables as part of the JSL v14 upgrades. After the activity was complete, ground teams discovered that there was a bad connection between the Lab Router and KCU2. As part of troubleshooting steps, the crew inspected the cabling and noticed that Pin 5 & Pin 6 on JSL Data Cable (W3034) Connector P5B were damaged. Today, the crew attempted to repair both pins by bending pin 6 back into place and pulling pin 5, which had receded, back into place. The troubleshooting was unsuccessful and ground teams are working on a forward plan.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) High Pressure (HP) Oxygen Valve Open
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer Installation on the MPEP
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Airlock Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Flow Initiation
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub Initiation
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Retraction from JPM Side
JEM Airlock Valve Box Remote Controller (VB-RC) Activation
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Iodination
JEM Airlock Depressurization and vent
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Airlock Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Flow Terminate
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Scrub Deconfiguration
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) High Pressure Oxygen Valve Close
JEM Airlock Valve Box Remote Controller (VB-RC) Deactivation
JEM Airlock and ACDU-RC Deactivation
Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD) satellite deployment Maneuver
JEM Airlock Slide Table Extension to JEF side
JEM Airlock Capture Mechanism Release
JEM Airlock Slide Table Retraction from JEF side
JEM Airlock and ACDU-RC Deactivation

