
NeuroMapping: Today two 52S crewmembers set up the NeuroMapping hardware and performed their Flight Day 30 tests in “strapped in” and “free floating” body configurations. During the test, the crewmembers executed three Behavioral Assessments: mental rotation, sensorimotor adaptation, and motor-cognitive dual tasking. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to brain structure and function, motor control, or multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Configuration for Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): To support the ACME payload investigation, the crew disconnected water umbilicals at the CIR Z-Panel to remove water pressure from the rack and then removed the Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) from the CIR combustion chamber for the final time. The ACME chamber insert for the first set of test points was configured and connected into the CIR Combustion Chamber.  After the water umbilicals were reconnected to the Z-Panel, the crew performed a leak check. Due to the amount of hardware requiring installation, activities will be conducted over the next two days. The ACME investigation is a set of five independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the CIR. ACME’s primary goal is to improved fuel efficiency and reduced pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth. Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Post Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) Tasks: Today crewmembers participated in an EVA debrief conference with ground specialists, preformed battery maintenance, and serviced the water system on the Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) used during yesterday’s EVA. During US EVA #45 the crew successfully Removed and Replaced (R&R) the External Television Camera Group (ETVCG) located at Camera Port 9 (CP9) and lubricated the newly installed Latching End Effector (LEE) A on the Space Station Robotic Manipulator System (SSRMS).  
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Calf Volume Measurement
SPLANKH. EGEG Recording.
SPLANKH. Photography of the Experiment Session
KUBIK Temperature Adjustment to 6°C
ISS HAM Video Power Up
Multi Omics Item Gathering
Study of veins in lower extremities.
Snapshot of Cardiomed windows on MSE-Med
PK-4 Flexhose connection to Neon gas bottle
Nikon still camera sync with station time
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Post EVA Examination
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) in Columbus
PK-4 Gas Supply Flexhose disconnection for storage
NeuroMapping Experiment Neurocognitive Test Video – Subject
RELAKSATSIYA. Parameter Settings Adjustment.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
RELAKSATSIYA. Observation.
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Manufacturing Device Print Removal and Stow
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Termination
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Social Media Event
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Initiate
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Initiation
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ (КОВ) for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
Rodnik Bag Audit
ACME MWA Prep
Plug-in Plan (PiP) GFCI Cable Swap
СОЖ Maintenance
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge
Polar IMAK Sample Swap
Combustion Integrated Rack Front End Cap Open
Polar Desiccant Pack insert
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill
ACME Insertion Configuration 1
Download Pille Dosimeter Readings
Pille Dosimeter Readout after US EVA
IMS Update
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Debrie

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

SSRMS Walkoff
Standard commanding

