
Plant Gravity Sensing 2 (PGS2) Run 1:  Following up on Lindgren’s treatment yesterday of the growing plants with a chemical reagent that induces a bioluminescence response, today Yui removed the reagent with an absorbent and placed them in a Photon Counting Unit (PCU).  Photon measurements will be taken over the next 24 hours.  Lindgren noted yesterday that one of the four culture dishes was contaminated and, after coordination with ground experts, he discarded that dish.  Plant calcium concentrations have been shown to change in response to the direction of gravity:  the treated plants will emit photons when the culture dishes they are growing in are rotated so that they are “upside down.”  The PGS2 investigation supports the study of cellular formation of the plant’s gravity sensors and the molecular mechanism for gravity sensing in plants grown in microgravity conditions.
 
MAGVECTOR:  Today Lindgren completed the sixth run of the European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) MAGVECTOR experiment begun last Friday, October 9th, by transferring data from a jump drive to a Station Support Computer (SSC).  MAGVECTOR qualitatively investigates the interaction between a moving magnetic field and an electrical conductor. The expected changes in the magnetic field structure on the ram and wake side of the electrical conductor are of interest for technical applications as well as for astrophysical research.
 
SOLAR:  Measurements continue to be taken for European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) SOLAR investigation during the current sun visibility window which is open from October 9th to October 19th.  The goal of the SOLAR instruments is to measure solar spectral irradiance and variability.
 
Journals:  Kelly made Journals entries today. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used during astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparation for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Space Headaches: Yui answered his weekly Space Headaches questionnaire today.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Lindgren and Kelly obtained body measurements on each other as part of Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) On-Orbit Fit Verification (OFV).  The measurements will be used to confirm the correct sizing of the EMU suits prior to going EVA on October 28th.  In addition, they installed Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBA) on EMU suits 3003 and 3010.  Once installed, they performed a checkout to verify the EMU Glove heaters were functional and helmet cameras were receiving power.   Lastly, Lindgren replaced the gas trap on EMU 3010.
 
Ocular Health:  Yui and Lindgren executed their Medical Operations Flight Day 90 (FD90) Ocular Health activities with Kelly’s assistance.  Both performed Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and fundoscope measurements with Kelly as operator.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HMS – OCT Hardware Setup
Terminate EMU LIB Battery Charge Operations
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (start)
Installation of СУБА Hardware (as part of КЛ-121/122Ц monoblock installation)
Private Psychological Conference
Start EMU Battery Charge
WRS Water Sample Analysis
Water Recovery System (WRS). WPA Waste Water Tank Offload into CWC (start)
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops
PGS2 – Equipment Gathering
EHS MCD – In-flight Microbiology Water analysis and data recording
Water Recovery System (WRS). Terminate WPA Waste Water Tank Offload into CWC
СОЖ Maintenance
OCT Eye Examination, Operator
OCT Eye Examination, Subject
Ultrasound 2 HRF – Rack 1 Power Up
Ultrasound – Scan Prep
OCT Eye Examination, Operator
OCT Eye Examination, Subject
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (end) and start backup
Eye Examination (Operator)
Study of cardiovascular system under graded physical load on VELO (Operator)
Study of Cardiovascular System Under Graded Physical Load on VELO
Eye Examination (Subject) / See OPTIMIS Viewer for Procedure
Ultrasound 2 – Scan by CMO
Ultrasound 2 – Scan (Subject) / See OPTIMIS Viewer for Procedure
OCT Hardware Stowage
TOCA Data Recording
XF305– Camcorder Setup
Plant Gravity Sensing (PGS2). Absorbing chemical solution
Ultrasound 2 – Closeout Ops
Ultrasound Data Export
Acoustic Dosimeter Ops
КЦП1 and Laptop RS1 Software Update
Ultrasound 2 – Deactivation and Stowage
Photography of ISS RS window 06, 07, 08, 09, 26 glass
R/G review, search and gathering of required equipment prior to replacement of ПВ-12Р plug
MAGVEC – Data Export
Replacement of fuses in ПВ-12Р plug
Journal Entry
HMS – Food Frequency Questionnaire
Water sample collection from SVO-ZV (EDV 1198)
SHD – Weekly Questionnaire
EMU On-Orbit Fit Check
Node 1 Nadir – Connecting Power Cables Part 3
EMU On-Orbit Fit Check
Replacement of damaged plug ПВ-12(#10Ю=А811) on БСКУ5-12 (#10ЮА781) with ПВ-12Р plug taken from onboard spares
Installation of REBA batteries
REBA powered equipment test
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 9
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops
MOTOCARD. Operator Assistance with the Experiment
EMU Gas Trap Remove and Replace
EXPANDER Exercise
ARED Exercise Video Equipment Stowage
Fundoscope Hardware Setup
Fundoscope – Eye Exam (Operator)
Fundoscope Hardware Setup
Fundoscope – Eye Examination
Fundoscope Power Down and Stowage
Preparation of reports for Roscosmos site
ECON-M. Observations and Photography
IMS Delta File Prep

 
Completed Task List Items

P/TV N1 Video Cable R&R
61P USOS cargo unpack [In work]

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HCZ MDM Swap and EEPROM refresh

 
