10-16-2010October 16, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/16/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – crew rest day.  After wakeup, CDR Wheelock, FE-6 Walker & FE-3 Kelly continued their current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 6th for Wheels & Shannon, 1st for Scott, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  The six station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  As part of the uborka house cleaning, the Russian crewmembers conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).  At ~7:45am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  Fyodor Yurchikhin completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Shannon Walker retrieved & stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies, deployed by her on 10/14 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.    [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]  Doug Wheelock & Scott Kelly filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  After an N2 (nitrogen) repress of the cabin air from Progress 37P yesterday, an O2 (oxygen) repress from 37P tankage took place today.    [These represses are needed before dismantling an O2 regulator.  The regulator is the same as on 22S & 24S, and on 10/14 the crew reported that they had access to the regulator and may be able to return it on 23S.  20kg of O2 available (~16mmHg of stack pressure) are to be used in two represses over two days.  The regulator on 24S had issues prior to launch, however after several cycle sessions, the valve/regulator seemed to work.]  Walker continued reconstitution work on Makita batteries for EVA tools (e.g., PGT/Power Grip Tools), discharging/recharging each battery.    [Each Makita discharge takes ~25 min, followed by a cool down period of 1h minimum and recharge, which takes 1h25m.]  Shannon also performed the regular camera setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) with Sample 7, done one, three and five days after initializing, plus today taking photos of the position of the flash and the sample module in all three axes.  At ~6:30am, Alex, Oleg & Fyodor engaged in a PAO phone interview via S-band with Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos Magazine and an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.       At 3:55pm the three Russian flight engineers are also scheduled for three PAO events, downlinking messages of greetings and congratulations to the “Good Evening, Moscow!” TV Program, the 50th anniversary of the All-Russian Voluntary Firefighting Association, and the 50th anniversary of MCC/TsUP-Moscow.  CDR & FE-3 were scheduled for their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Scott at ~11:50am, Wheels at ~2:20pm.   At ~1:05pm, Doug will power up the SM (Service Module)'s amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and conducted, at 1:10pm a ham radio session with students at George Observatory, Needville, TX.     [October 16, 2010 is designated as Astronomy Day at George Observatory, located in Fort Bend County, Texas, near Houston.  The event is sponsored by various astronomy clubs and the Houston Museum of Natural Science. There will be plenty of activities designed to educate children, and peak their interest in astronomy and science. The children interviewing the ISS crew are Boy Scouts and youth members of several astronomy clubs. In the evening the children will learn how to track the ISS across the night sky, will be able to look through the three telescopes at the observatory, and will be given "sky tours" with the aid of green laser pointers.]  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-3) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Five -- Week 3).    STIMMT!  2-D NANO Template (JAXA):     “Progress is continuing in MELFI-2. A sample bag containing SiC (Silicon Carbide) and mica peptide in solution has been kept in MELFI-2 at 4 degrees to fabricate large and highly oriented nanoscale two-dimensionally arranged arrays. This experiment started in Inc23/24 and has run for 3 months. It will be completed on GMT288. The samples will be returned on ULF5 under cold stowage.”  3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     “Shannon,  Thank you for your outstanding efforts on the ALTEA relocation and reactivation!”  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):     “BCAT-5 sample 7 run has proceeded flawlessly throughout the week with over 195 pictures so far.  Sample 7 behaved similarly to sample 6 during which phase separation was arrested by crystal formation early in the process, a behavior observed for the first time in colloids.  Early examination of sample 7 pictures seem to show an even more rapid evolution, making the initial 60 pictures all the more critical.  Perfect setup by Shannon from the start allowed the detailed capture of that important phase.  The uplinked science image file (Message 25-0202) shows sample 7 after four days where phase separation has essentially halted (mottled regions) and crystals (blue, green and red) are clearly visible.  Most sincere congratulations to Shannon and thanks from the BCAT team.”  BIOLAB (ESA):    PADIAC experiment containers have been kept in BIOLAB TCU at +4degC after their incubation and before their transfer to MELFI1 on 10/12 (GMT285). The BIOLAB AAS insert was replaced on 10/13 (GMT286).  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    “Scott, you are scheduled to begin taking your weekly alendronate dose on 10/18.  This will align your pill ingestions with Cady when she arrives.  An overnight fast of nothing but water is required for the pill to be effective.  This fast must continue for 30 minutes after ingestion.”  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):     “A crew conference was held with Shannon on 10/.4 to go over some changes/improvements in the camera set-up for CFE-2.  On 10/5, Shannon was able to complete 3 pre-wetted surface tests and 3 bubble shake tests with the ICF1 unit.  The PI was able to review the tape playback later in the week, and the preliminary results look great!  Thanks, Shannon for your efforts in performing these CFE-2 operations and helping us work out the optimum setup with the G1 camera (new to us).  This completes the full science test matrix for the ICF1 unit, but the PI has identified 2 additional "extra science" runs that we hope to get in at the next operations opportunity for CFE-2.”  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    “Wheels: Great job with the CIR bottle replacement on GMT 281! After the MDCA Fuel Reservoirs are replaced, we plan to get back to performing test points.”  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    No report.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.  DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    “This week we continued to perform the sequence DSI-S2. The scientific objective of this sequence is to study the influence of thermal gradient, pulling rate, and macroscopic curvature of the solid-liquid interface.  The DSI-S2 is composed of 18 cycles. Each cycle includes the following phases: Melt, homogenization and solidification.  During week 3 we performed 5 cycles with success and we got about 30,000 images.”  DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.   DOSIS (Active Measure, ESA):     Science data acquisition with DOSTEL2 detector only.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA): (Kids in Space):   No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    No report. . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.  EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.  EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    No report.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.  EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    No report.  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET-2 (JAXA):   “8th run is on-going.  Please refer to the picture taken on GMT 285 showing growing facet crystals in ISS.  The image is 3.2mm X 2.4mm, and the light wavelength used to image the crystals is 660nm LED, shown by the red color. The picture can be seen in Message 25-0202.”   FERULATE (JAXA):    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     LMM/PACE was successful in the first test of 100x microscopy. This is a significant event in opening the operation window for LMM operations. The LMM/PACE team was able to focus the microscope clearly on the PACE Target. This demonstrates the procedure for the crew to dispense the index matching oil and the ability of the software and commanding to control LMM to this very fine accuracy. Higher magnification microscopy is a science requirement of the Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE) that is planned to start operations in 2012. Testing will continue with PACE/ARIS at 63x and 100x to optimize the science objectives and characterize the LMM during various operational scenarios.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    A file with MVIS (Microgravity Vibration Insulation System) data was finally downlinked on 10/4.  This could not be done earlier due to problems with the FSL VMU (Video Management Unit).  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):   No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 1793 images have been taken to date.  A survey of the payload was successfully performed on 10/4 using the SSRMS. Real-time review of video data shows the HICO lens, star tracker, and external surfaces are all healthy with no visible degradation after 1 year on-orbit.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     “Shannon, the PI reports that the quality of the Holter data from your most recent (FD75) session was much better than the data from the first two, so please continue what you did last time (extra care in skin prep plus use of OpSite) for your upcoming ICV ambulatory monitoring session!“  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     Successful contact with University of Western Australia performed by Shannon Walker.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:     All runs are completed and videos look great!  Thanks to everyone for doing a great job on these student-designed experiments!!   KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Acquiring science data in JAXA’s Kibo.  Marangoni Exp (JAXA):   Oil leak check of 3 different types of Marangoni sample cassettes completed on GMT281.  One cassette was found to have a leak problem.  The intent is to return this defective cassette in order to refurbish and reflight for use in a future increment.  This will not impact Increment 25/26 as the cassettes planned to be used during these increments are currently on-orbit in good condition.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    Marangoni cassette leak check was completed on 10/8.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    New X-ray nova, named MAXI J166659-152 was detected on 9/25.  X-ray brightening was seen on the light curve data chart on telemetry.  This detection is consistent with the same-day detection by the Swift Burst Alert Telescope.  Source has continued to brighten since the initial observation.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally and all Science data continues to be downlinked.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.  MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   Caldwell, Wheelock, and Walker performed on 8/30.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.  PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   “Doug, a huge thanks on behalf of the entire PADIAC team for your excellent care of the PADIAC experiment (and the great vigorous shaking)!  ~54.5hrs after Soyuz launch the “24hrs-timepoint” samples were installed in KUBIK6, followed by the installation of the control “0hrs-timepoint” sample in KUBIK3. The control sample was removed from KUBIK-3 after 01h45m to represent the reference T=0 sample and was transferred to the BIOLAB TCU2 at +4degC. Around ~57hrs after launch – nicely within the 64hrs requirement, the last set of “4hrs-timepoint” samples were installed in KUBIK3. These samples were transferred to the BIOLAB TCU2 at the preferred time, i.e. 9hrs after script activation. The “24hrs-timepoint” samples from KUBIK6 followed the next day on 10/11 (GMT284) after their incubation period to the BIOLAB TCU2 at +4degC as well at the foreseen time. All EC’s were then transferred to MELFI1 at -95degC on 10/12 (GMT285) and stay there until their 23S Soyuz return. With this, all PADIAC operations have been completed successfully and within the margins of the science requirements.”   KUBIK3/6 data files have been downlinked and all confirmed nominal by the Payload Developer.  PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    PCG had arrived with 39P, has been installed in the PCRF and experimenting is going on nominally.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    “Wheels, thanks for your participation in your FD120 session.  Your diet log file and pH log photo have been received on the ground.  Your last Pro K session will be the FD180 session.”  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.  RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Wheels, Shannon and Scott, thank you for participating in Reaction Self Test! For Wheels and Shannon, you will continue your sleep shift sequence for Reaction Self Test through GMT 288.”  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report.  SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    The experiment (observation) has been resumed from 8/23.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Shannon, thank you for completing another week of Sleep logging.  We will be downlinking your data on the 25th to send to the PI.  You're next session of logging is planned to begin on November 1st.  Wheels, thank you for completing another week of Sleep logging.  We will be downlinking your data on the 25th to send to the PI.  You're next session of logging is planned to begin on November 1st.  Wheels, you are currently being scheduled to perform the monthly Actiwatch activity next Thursday, 10/21 (GMT 294).  During the session, you will be asked to install a new battery on both your and Shannon's Actiwatches prior to performing the download and initialization.  Neither Scott's Actiwatch nor the Actiwatch Reader should require a new battery.”  SMILES (JAXA):    No report.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):     SODI / COLLOID hardware has been de-installed from MSG on 10/13 (GMT286). The science team is continuing their analysis and are looking much forward to receiving the full data set on the flash disks after ULF5 return.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   The next Sun visibility window #33 started on 10/4.  Both SOLACES and SOLSPEC are acquiring science data.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.  Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report.  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    "Shannon, this week we had a very successful test session.  The tests you conducted helped three different master's thesis at MIT and the Florida Institute of Technology.  This session also: helped complete research waiting since January, continued our efforts to identify Fluid Slosh, and opened new research areas on human-in-the-loop controls.  Thank you for all the time you spent with SPHERES!  We’ve included additional information about the tests you performed:  First, you need to know that our SPHERES Test Plans are developed with optimistic expectations—that things go very smoothly.  That way, if the session does progress well, we are able to take full advantage of all the time allotted.  However, we realize things do not always go as expected.  Therefore, the “Group Success Markers” identified on the SPHERES Test Plans are in place to help identify a minimum, yet successful, level of testing for each group.  Therefore, from this week's session:  Group A: Successfully complete. No need to run Tests 9/10/11. If the data indicates further testing is needed, they will be incorporated into a future test session as a normal part of the iterative research of SPHERES.   Group B: Successfully complete. The essential data (up to Test 4) were obtained.  The only missing test was Test 7, beyond the group success mark (meaning the group was successful).  The data obtained are expected to provide enough information for the team to proceed with the next level of complexity in human-machine-interaction tests.  Group D: Not run.  We will evaluate when the next time 3-sat tests can be run, and run it as a single group or incorporate it into a larger group of 3-sat tests.  These tests have been ""waiting"" since 2009, but are not time-critical.  They will help produce journal publications, but they do not affect student graduations or contracts."  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Thanks Wheels, for your 4th data collection for the THERMOLAB experiment during the VO2max protocol!”  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   “Shannon, thank you for completing the first of two blood draws for Vascular.”  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):     No data is currently acquired.  Reboot performed on 10/07 (GMT280) did not resolve the issue.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    Acquiring data. Command list file uplink performed on 9/1.  VO2max (NASA):    “Wheels, congratulations on another successful VO2max session on Monday!  Thank you for completing the hardware setup on Friday.  Your dedication to the study is much appreciated by the team.  Data analysis will begin soon.  Thanks again!”  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    Through 10/13, the ground has received a total of 1,057 frames of Exp-25 CEO imagery for review and cataloging.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following targets with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists:  Manama, Bahrain - several excellent views - requirements are complete for this target; Lake Nasser, Toshka Lakes, Egypt - good documentary views of the Toshka Lakes - seasonal requirements complete for this target; Lake Poopo, Bolivia - good detailed mapping of this target - context views will be requested next; Kilauea Volcano, Hawaii - one nice session with context views - detailed views will continue to be requested - a second session with more detail and more clouds includes what appears to be a plume from recently reported volcanic activity; Khartoum, Sudan - excellent detailed views of this target - context views will continue to be requested; Nouakchott, Mauritania - good partial view of this low-contrast city was acquired - will continue requests; Caracas, Venezuela - this city is rarely located by crews - however, more clouds were present than we hoped - we will continue to request it; and Hurricane Paula - just received this morning - nice views are under evaluation.  Your outstanding view of the CEO target:  Great Dyke of Zimbabwe was published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  Your cloud-free view beautifully documents this prominent geological feature in southeastern Africa.  Kudos to the crew for this fine acquisition on our very first request for this target!”  