
NanoRacks Module 9:  Wilmore performed session 4 of 5 Nanoracks Module 9. He retrieved the module and activated/deactivated/shook the designated mixture tubes to facilitate NanoRacks Module-9 experiments. Module-9 is a collection of student research projects utilizing the NanoRacks Mixsticks. The NanoRacks-National Center for Earth and Space Science Education investigation results from a commercial Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education program overseen by the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE), called the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP). Student teams from across the United States design their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. The investigation consists of 19 different science experiments flown in a NanoRacks Module on board the International Space Station (ISS).
NanoRacks:  Wilmore removed Nanoracks Modules 16, 18, 20, 21 and 22 from inside the Nanoracks Platform. He also removed Modules 28 and 31 from inside the Nanoracks Platform-2 and configured all modules for return on SpaceX-4.
Post Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities:  The Crew performed a variety of tasks following yesterday’s successful EVA-28.  Wisemen and Wilmore performed their post-EVA medical assessments.  Wiseman also performed a water dump and fill of the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) feedwater tanks to prepare them for stowage and initiated a charge cycle for the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA). All three US Crew members participated in a post-EVA debrief with ground specialists.  Lastly, Wiseman and Wilmore performed a deconfiguration of the airlock.
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Hydrogen Sensor Remove & Replace (R&R): Today Gerst replaced the OGS Hydrogen Sensor.  This sensor has reached the end of its lifetime of 150 days of operations.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Spacesuit comm and telemetry configuration
Checkout of Beta-08 Data Output Device (УСИ) using Gamma-1M.
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor
Orlan and БСС Telemetry Check. Orlan comm check and medical parameter test.
Post-EVA Pille Dosimeter Reading
Comm reconfig into initial after Orlan Comm. Check
Setting up NASA gear for use on Orlan-M
Crew Prep for TV Conference
PAO Hardware Setup
TV Greetings for the Russian Judo Wrestling Tournament
Test Operation of MIS (Multifunctional Information System) on ISS RS.
Assessment of Cardiovascular Function on Cycle Ergometer.
MERLIN3 – Kit transfers
Start BSA Battery Charge
Double Coldbag (DCB) – Stowage of Ice Bricks and Bags
Installation of XF305 TV camera in Columbus
Post-EVA crew health status
EVA Medical Kit Configuration
OGA Hydrogen Sensor R&R
Assessment of Cardiovascular Function on Cycle Ergometer.
Post-EVA crew health status – data transfer
MERLIN2. Desiccant Replacement
Review EVA Translation Paths and Work Zones using DOUG Application.
NANO – Activation and shaking the Tubes
EMU Water Refill
NANO – Removal of Modules 28 and 31
Video Recording for Roscosmos TV Studio
ТКГ 423 (DC1) Activation, Air Duct Removal
RR-HABITAT. Stowage
DC1-ТКГ 423 Hatch Closure & Leak Check
Crew EVA Debrief
ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position Verification
Post-EVA Air Lock Deconfig
NANORACK-P – Big Picture Overview
NANO – Removal of modules 16, 18, 20, 21 and 22
CASKAD. Manual Mixing in Bioreactor

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Nominal commanding

