10-10-2009October 10, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/10/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – return of Soyuz 18S and last day in space for Exp-20 members Padalka & Barratt as well as SFP Laliberté.  Crew wake/sleep cycle has been adjusted to accommodate Soyuz undocking tonight:  After wakeup this morning at 9:00am EDT, the crew is working through the day busy with last preparations for the undocking at ~9:05pm, then, beginning at ~1:05am, a long rest period until the nominal 2:00am at Monday morning (Columbus Day).   FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Stott, FE-4 Thirsk, FE-5 De Winne & FE-5-21 Williams continued their week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Jeff’s first and Mike’s last, logging data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.  Mike then doffed his Actiwatch (data to be downloaded at a later time).     [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   For FE-5-21 Jeff Williams it was the second session of the weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.     [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.]    Williams performed another two sessions with the RST (Reaction Self Test) on an A31p laptop (#1108 at Lab1O5) containing the appropriate software.    [The activity involves answering pre-test questions, testing reaction time, and providing performance feedback.]   Later, Jeff completed the now regular transfer of pre-treated Russian urine directly from EDV-U container into the Lab UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) for processing, done each morning for about 5 minutes.   Jeff also performed the regular weekly maintenance on the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization), primarily inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices), SLD cables and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time & date values.   In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-4 Thirsk removed the AmiA (Antimicrobial Applicator) from the ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) and packed it in bubble wrap.  He then took a coolant sample from the ITCS for ground analysis.    [The AmiA was used to introduce OPA (Ortho-Phthalaldehyde), an antimicrobial agent, into the Kibo ITCS coolant.]   In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Bob worked on the RaDI-N (Radiation Dosimetry inside ISS) assembly (which measures neutron flux), retrieving the eight SBDs (Space Bubble Detectors) and taking data readouts from them, with ground support standing by as required.   [FE-3 Romanenko assisted with the SBDs since they are also part of the Russian RBO-3-2 Matryoshka payload.]   FE-2 Stott had time set aside for filling out her regular weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   Both Barratt & Padalka took their last physical workouts onboard, running the high-speed protocol on the new COLBERT treadmill T2, after ground engineers cleared the device for use after checking yesterday’s ACO (Activation & Checkout) results by Nicole.   FE-3 Roman Romanenko & FE-1-21 Maxim Suraev transferred all remaining Russian VC science payloads from the ISS to the Soyuz TMA-14 SA (Descent Module), with Romanenko taking documentary photography.    [Transferred payloads included –  BTKh-10/KONYUGATSIYA BTKh-26/KASKAD BTKh-14/BIOEMULSIYA BTKh-27/ASTROVAKCINA BIO-1/POLIGENE BTKh-5/LAKTOLEN BTKh-6/ ARIL BTKh-7/OChB BTKh-40/BIF BTKh-41/BACTERIOPHAGE TkhN-9/KRISTALLIZATOR      and BTKh-29/Zhenshen-2/Ginseng-2.]    CDR Padalka also stowed the JAXA PCG (Protein Crystal Growth) payload in the 18S SA for return, after FE-2 Stott had removed it from the PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) in the Kibo JPM and turned it over to him.   Padalka retrieved the hatch seal drive handle from the Soyuz 18S and handed it over to Romanenko for stowage in the FGB near the FGB GA transfer hatch.   Nicole Stott closed the protective window shutters in the Lab and Kibo module in preparation for the Soyuz departure, and also deactivated the ham radio equipment in the SM & FGB, to prevent RF interference with the Soyuz radio comm.   With TMA-14 no longer available as contingency CRV (Crew Return Vehicle) for the coming Increment, Maxim Suraev transferred two VC Emergency Procedures ODF (DAS EP) books from 18S to Soyuz TMA-16/20S and one EMER-1 Book to the FGB.  As always, these were the last transfers.   Afterwards (~2:40pm EDT), Gennady Padalka closed out the two listings of equipment items to be returned in the Soyuz SA and of excessed cargo stowed in the BO (Orbital Module), then reported loading completion status to TsUP-Moscow via S-band.   After Frank De Winne unstowed the U.S. CDMK (Carbon Dioxide Monitor Kit), Padalka entered the 18S Descent Module at ~3:50pm and performs a final check of the cabin atmosphere with the CDMK (since the Soyuz CO2 analyzer has failed).   At ~4:25pm, Gennady performed the standard pre-undocking communications check, as Roman in the SM configured the STTS comm system for undocking.     As next step, Padalka will remove and inspect the SSVP BZV rigidizing quick-disconnect screw clamps, with documentary video recording.   Activation of the spacecraft by Gennady & Mike will take place at ~4:35pm-5:35pm.   Subsequent hatch closure will be preceded by the traditional Crew Farewell at about 5:55pm between the departing Exp-20 crewmembers Padalka, Barratt & Laliberté and the new Exp-21 station crew of De Winne, Suraev, Stott, Romanenko, Thirsk & Williams.   The departing Soyuz crew then starts the standard one-hour leak check on the Soyuz-to-DC1 vestibule.   Shortly before the undocking (~9:05pm EDT), Romanenko will power up the “Istochnik-M” (“spring”, “source”) system for receiving telemetry from onboard the reentering Soyuz TMA-14 spacecraft, allowing ISS-based (and relayed-to-the-ground) monitoring of the tri-module separation event.    [The equipment, including Istochnik TM station, power amplifiers, power supply, USB software sticks and cables, was brought up on Progress 32P.]    After the departure, the station crew will complete a number of post-undocking tasks, such as –  Photographing the docking      interface of the receding Soyuz to ensure clean separation from the      docking port, Reconfiguring the ISS STTS      onboard communications links, Downlinking all      documentary photo/video of the undocking, Monitoring the Soyuz      reentry with the Istochnik-M      system, and Restoring nominal comm      config after the Soyuz landing.    The new ISS CDR, Frank De Winne from Belgium, is scheduled for doing the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC laptops.   Maxim Suraev, the new FE-1, completed the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.   Max also undertook the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Additionally, the FE-1 did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2, FE-1-21), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), T2/COLBERT (CDR, FE-1), and ARED advanced resistive exercise (FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-5-21).   Later, Stott transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).   At ~1:00pm, Nicole had her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).   CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) Update:   Kudos to Nicole from JAXA/SSIPC (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center/Tsukuba):   “Thank you for working hard on the CBEF Manual Ventilation. The humidity inside CBEF decreased more than 1.7%RH and we should be able to see an effective bud pollination and seed formation.  With your great support, SPACE SEED samples for the short term cultivation will be harvested as planned on 10/13.”  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty -- Week 19)  3-D SPACE:    “Thank you Mike for completing the 3D-SPACE experiment.“  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):  The Principal Investigator, Dr Livio Narici from Rome, Italy, visited JSC last week and expressed his appreciation for the data which he and his team continue to receive.  He added a special thanks for the crew’s concern to maintain ALTEA DOSI given the potential for conflicts with other operations and science hardware conflicts.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):   No report.   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):   No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.   BISPHOSPHONATES:   “Jeff, thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Due to sleep shifting, your next session is scheduled for 10/10.”   CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):   “Thank you, Mike, for performing CARD.  The data received on the ground looks really geoda!”  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    “The 63 day long experiment was begun on 9/10.  The seedlings in the PEU units are growing well.  One of the desiccants was exchanged.  The first harvesting is scheduled on 10/13.”  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    “Bob you are scheduled to complete your next ICV with CCISS session on 10/14.”  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Complete.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial 2 (JAXA):   Completed.  Commercial 3 (JAXA):   Completed.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    Experiment is progressing nominally with active and passive dosimeters measurements.  Data downlink was performed on 10/2.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):   Planned.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):   The rack is continuously active in support of the Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility (PCDF) experiment. EDR is providing power/data and temperature control (via cooling loop) to PCDF.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    No report.   EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):   No report.  EPO LES-3 (ESA):    “Excellent job, Frank and Bob, on LES-3.  The 350 10-12 year olds in Brussels really enjoyed the event and having their questions answered.”  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):  The sample was transferred to MELFI.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):  “No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  EuTEF (European Technology Exposure Facility):   With landing of 17A on 9/11, EuTEF platform was returned to the ground.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):    FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory):  No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   To be launched by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   To be launched by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):   RAIDS experiment 1st motion was successful.  Experiment Adjustments for better science gathering are on-going.  HICO scene takes continue.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    “Nicole, thanks for participating in another Borg experience this week.  We’d like to apologize for the ARED scheduling - in the heat of the first session, that part of your earlier crew note just didn’t quite register.  We are working on some scheduling options to avoid a repeat occurrence for your next session in November.  Many thanks to Bob and Frank for the assistance with other activities!  Next week, we are looking forward to Bob’s FD135 scan and his continued assimilation into the Borg.  Jeff will be the scanner for Bob’s echo and will be the “scan-ee” later in the week when you will get the opportunity to wield the scanhead!”   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:  No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space):   No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):   System checkout is ongoing.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):   “While Bob was preparing the ESC (Experiment Sample Cassette) for Marangoni Exp 3, it was found that silicone oil (the sample) was leaking from the ESC.  Experiments scheduled for Week1-3 will be postponed.  We greatly thank Bob for working on the trouble shooting. We would like to have the other ESCs checked, too.”  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MDS (Mice Drawer System):   “For the second consecutive week the MDS engineering and science teams are happy to report that all systems are nominal and that all the mice appear healthy and robust.  Food and water consumptions are within normal limits.  Humidity levels appear higher than expected within the JEM and we are studying that environment carefully.  We expect another routine week for MDS.  Our 80-member teams extend their thanks for the work you continue to do on behalf of this science investigation.”  Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE (Materials ISS Experiment):  Ongoing.  Moon Photography from ISS (JAXA EPO):   No report.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY:    “Mike, thanks for the great work in completing your Nutrition/Repository sessions.  We have received all of the information that you placed in crew notes from these sessions and are very thankful.  It has truly been a pleasure having you participate in the in-flight operations for these experiments.  Thanks again for your participation.”   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):  No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):   Temperature monitoring by ground operation is now in progress and is stable around 20 degrees. Crystallization continues until 10/10 (today).  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):   RadSilk experiment has started.  Sortie sample (launch control sample) was returned by 17A.   RST (Reaction Self Test):   “Jeff, thank you for being the first subject for Reaction Self Test!  The data from the Reaction Self Test hard drive will be downlinked after the SSC server transition.  We look forward to analyzing your data!”   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):   Ongoing.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):   Started nominal operation.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):   “Nicole, Mike, Bob, and Frank, thanks for completing another week of sleep logging.  We are going to downlink the data later in the month.  Bob, you are scheduled to download and initialize all the Actiwatches on 10/18.  You will also be downloading and stowing Mike’s sleep Actiwatch.  Jeff. thanks for completing your first week of sleep logging.  We are going to downlink the data later in the month.  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):   “The discrepancy you noted last week between your expected mass measurement and the SLAMMD body mass measurements has been observed by past crewmembers.  SLAMMD functions via Newton’s Second Law of Motion F=ma.  The unit itself measures what eventually amounts to acceleration under a constant force.  SLAMMD software contains complex algorithms that compute the body mass.  SLAMMD measurements show consistently low variance on the calibration and control runs (less than 0.5 lb) and can be considered precise.  While a device may be described as precise (a function of repeatability and reproducibility), that does not affirm accuracy.  All individual raw values, including rejected runs, are saved and archived on the ground.  Additionally, the SLAMMD software can be updated to improve mass calculations.  The engineering team has evaluated the SLAMMD data collected on-orbit thus far and has developed an updated mass calculation algorithm that should resolve any accuracy issues with the SLAMMD.  When this improved algorithm is fully developed and tested, we intend to re-calculate archived data to obtain more accurate body mass measurement results.  Thus, all data collected on station is valuable.  Thank you for your feedback, we always appreciate any crew observations and notations!”  SMILES (JAXA):   System checkout is ongoing.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in. Liquids, ESA):   “The first 4 runs of SODI-IVIDIL have been completed.  The science team was happy to see no bubbles had formed in the cell array and they are getting good images.”  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):     Currently not in Sun observation window.  Next window is predicted to start on 10/17.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):   No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.  SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):   No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    VLE-1 completed.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    Complete/Planned (2J/A Stage). No report.  YEAST B (ESA):   “Frank, thank you for performing the YEAST experiment.  The science team is very happy with the photos you took.  They are even able to see the edges of the yeast colonies.  Bob, thank you so much for downloading the files from BIOLAB, that really helped the teams on the ground confirm activation and deactivation”.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):    Through 10/7, the ground has received a total of 33,006 frames of ISS CEO imagery for review and cataloguing.  “We are pleased to confirm your acquisition of imagery for the following CEO targets:  Tenoumer Impact Crater, Mauritania –after years of attempts by earlier crews, we now the very best frames we ever expected to see of this challenging target – requirements complete – kudos; Super Typhoon Melor, western Pacific – the evolution and look-angles for this weather system did not offer great views – good effort; and Cairo, Egypt – unexpected clouds diminished the value of these views – we’ll keep trying.  Your dramatic, oblique view of the Arnica Fire in Yellowstone Park in late-September will be published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website this weekend.  Obliquity helped document the source, location, and scale of this major forest fire by including contextual landmark features such as Lakes Yellowstone and Jackson as well as the Tetons Range.  Nice catch!  Thanks again for your enthusiasm to perform Crew Earth Observations.”   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Caracas, Venezuela (weather was predicted to be mostly clear over the capital city of Venezuela.  The city follows the trend of the Caracas Valley within the coastal mountains.  Overlapping mapping frames taken along track were requested; these will capture a rural-urban-rural transect across the urban area), and Sky Islands, Northern Mexico (looking to the right of track into northwestern Mexico for a zone of roughly northwest-southeast trending mountain ranges.  The upper flanks and peaks of these ranges are relatively green with vegetation in comparison to the tan, sparsely vegetated lowland deserts around them.  These high-elevation vegetated areas are known as "sky islands" due to their isolated nature on the landscape.  Oblique imagery of the mountain ranges and their sky islands of vegetation was requested.    CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).  