
Cygnus Launch Status:  Yesterday’s planned launch of the OA-5 mission was postponed for 24 hours due to an issue with a ground support equipment.  OA-5 launch is set for today, 17-October at 6:40 PM CDT.  This launch attempt will result in OA loitering until after 48S docking, scheduled for Friday 21-October.  OA-5 approach and berthing is planned no earlier than 23-October. 
Body Measures: Over the weekend, FE-6 performed the Return minus 15 day (R-15) session for Body Measures with assistance with FE-5.  The crew configured still cameras and video, then collected the Neutral Body Posture video and stow the equipment. NASA is collecting in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. Still and video imagery is captured and a tape measure is used to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments (chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) from astronauts before, during and after their flight missions. 
Urine Collections: Over the weekend, the crew continued with collections in support of several Human Research Experiments.  Urine samples were collected, spun in the refrigerated centrifuge and placed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for the Biochemical Profile, CardioOx, and Repository experiments. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. The goal of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15, and 60 after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health. Repository is a storage bank that is used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Biological Rhythms 48-Hour Session: Sunday, FE-5 initiated a 48-hour Biological Rhythms session, donning a Holter Monitor and Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes.  Today, half-way through the collection period, he changed the Multimedia Card (MMC) and resumed data collection.  Biological Rhythms 48 hours is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) experiment that studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
Electromagnetic Levitation (EML) Configuration: FE-5 continued with configuration of the EML facility today, opening the valve to the Argon (Ar) gas supply and closing the Helium (He) valve.  The crew then changed the magnification factor to standard mode.  The EML is a multi-user facility designed for containerless materials processing in space. 
Soyuz (47S) Return Cargo Packing: On Sunday, the crew started packing the cargo that will be returning on 47S. The remaining packing will be completed prior to undocking. 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Microbial Air and Surface Sampling: The crew acquired air samples for microbial analysis using the Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) with Petri Dishes and surface samples with slide media. The EHS monitors the atmosphere for gaseous contaminants from nonmetallic materials off-gassing, combustion products, and propellants, microbial contaminants from crewmembers and Station activities, water quality, acoustics, and radiation levels.   
Robotics External Leak Locator (RELL) Reposition:  Earlier today the crew extended the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (A/L) slide table and repositioned the RELL in the JEM Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Transfer Interface (JODI) so that it is consistent with the configuration required by the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) for successful removal.  The JEM A/L slide table was then retracted back into the A/L.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were complete unless otherwise noted.

Calf Measurement
Personal CO2 Monitor iPad Application Restart
MORZE Food and liquids (medications) intake registration in flight log
Biological Rhythms 48 Multi Media Card Exchange
EML Gas Valves Opening
EML High Speed Camera Lens Switch
Samsung tablet charge in Soyuz 731 – charge init
Examination of lower extremities veins
Skin B Nominal Operations with Downlink
Photo/TV JEM Camcorder Swap
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
Structures and Mechanisms Robo Ext Leak Locator Assist 1
Structures and Mechanisms Robo Ext Leak Locator Reposition
Structures and Mechanisms Robo Ext Leak Locator Assist 2
JEM Airlock Slide Table Retraction from JPM Side
СОЖ Maintenance
Profile of Mood States (POMS) Questionnaire
Exercise Equipment Gather
ELEKTRON-VM [БЖ] repress
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
SODI External Hard Disk Connect
[КАВ] condensate sampling from [СРВ-К2М] upstream ФГС using Russian samplers, Initiate
ALGOMETRIA. Experiment Ops
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) QD27 Remate
MORZE. Food and liquids (medications) intake registration in flight log
Samsung tablet charge in Soyuz 731 – charge term
Surface Sample Kit (SSK) Collection/Incubation
Personal CO2 Monitor Doff
Water sampling from БРП-М in Russian bags for beverages
MERLIN2 Latch Striker Shim Removal
Water sampling from СВО-ЗВ in Russian bags for beverages
VEGGIE Facility Sanitization
ISS Crew departure preparation
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Kit Sample Collection
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
MORZE. Experiment setup
CCE Preparation
VHF Emergency Communication Check Out (US Ground Sites)
Crew Choice Event
MORZE. Food and liquids (medications) intake registration in flight log

Completed Task List Items

Crew Departure Prep (FE-5) [Completed Sunday]
O2/N2 Adapter Sort [Completed Sunday]
47S Prepack [Completed Sunday]
Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Retrieval [Completed Sunday]

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Nominal Ground Commanding

