10-11-2010October 11, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/11/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Underway: Week 3 of Increment 25.    At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin was joined by FE-1 Kaleri & FE-2 Skripochka to conduct, by way of handover, the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The three cosmonauts again inspect the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   Kaleri’s morning inspection today included the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM (Service Module) on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.   As another handover, Yurchikhin & Skripochka completed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #1 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated later tonight (~5:15pm EDT) before sleeptime, followed tomorrow by Bed #2 regeneration.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 9/20-9/21).]   After wakeup, CDR Wheelock, FE-6 Walker & FE-3 Kelly performed a new session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, Scott’s first.      [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   Wheelock, Walker & Kelly also began another week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 6th for Doug & Shannon, first for Scott, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLKEEP session, crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Scott Kelly unstowed and donned his Actiwatch for the SLEEP experiment ops.   After setting up the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) for real-time ground monitoring, Doug Wheelock concluded work on the PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators ) experiment, first removing the third set of six ECs (Experiment Containers) from KUBIK-6 in the EDR for transfer to the BLB TCU2 (Biolab Thermal Control Unit 2), then copying two data files (temperature plus centrifuge) from the stand-alone KUBIK-3 to the EDR laptop and from there to the MMU (Mass Memory Unit) root directory for downlink.    [PADIAC deals with cell biology, focusing on the all-important human immune system.  In microgravity, the activation process of T-cells, the immune system’s instruments, is altered. This could weaken the performance of the immune system.  Purpose of PADIAC is to activate human T-cells in micro-G by different activation “cocktails”.  Cells will be fixated at end of experiment run for on-ground analysis to (1) determine how micro-G affects expression of genes in human T-cells when using different activators, (2) distinguish micro-G effects from other spaceflight factors (using the on-board 1-g centrifuge), and (3) verify results of ground studies and previous space experiments.  Hoped-for benefit is a better understanding of signal transduction (pathways) in T-cells.  Outcome could help to find countermeasures against the influence of micro-G, especially for long term missions such as the human Mars expedition.  For the long experiment run, 6 ECs (+1 mass dummy, to establish proper mass in the container) were installed on Saturday in KUBIK-6 (in EDR/European Drawer Rack) for 25h30m and terminated today by Wheels.  For the short run, 6 ECs (+1 mass dummy) were installed on Saturday in the stand-alone KUBIK-3 and removed by Wheels yesterday after 9h for transferring 6 ECs to BLB TCU2 and trashing the mass dummy.]   Alex & Oleg had ~90 min for Soyuz TMA-01M/24S offloading and first cargo transfers to ISS for stowage, while Fyodor had 2h15m for loading excessed hardware & trash on Progress 37P for disposal, with IMS (Inventory Management System) tracking.   Afterwards, Kaleri worked in the 24S spacecraft’s Orbital Module (BO), installing and connecting the electronic LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and its PZU-1M ROM (read-only memory) unit from stowage, recycled from an earlier vehicle.   Later, Alex made his way into the Soyuz Descent Module (SA) and dismantled the two "Klest" (KL-152) TV cameras and their light units for return to the ground on 23S for reuse, temporarily stowing them in the SM.   Kaleri then completed the routine task of shooting two photos of the docking cone of the passive docking assembly (ASP-B) of the MRM2 zenith port occupied by the TMA-01M, a standard practice after Russian dockings.  These images are used to refine current understanding of docking conditions.  Sasha subsequently downlinked the pictures via OCA assets.     [The objective is to take photo imagery of the scratch or scuff marks left by the head of the docking probe on the internal surface of the drogue (docking cone, ASP) ring, now rotated out of the passageway.  Before shooting the picture, the cosmonaut highlights the scuffmark with a marker and writes the date next to it.  As other crewmembers before him, Alex used the Nikon D2X digital still camera to take two pictures with the hatch partially closed.]   FE-2 Skripochka started a new round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today working in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok).    [Using a vacuum cleaner and soft brush, Oleg cleaned filters and fan grilles of the TsV1,2 central circulation ventilators, the detachable VT7 fan screens of the three SOTR gas-liquid heat exchangers (GZhT4), plus the fixed GZhT4 grill, and also replaced the PS1 & PS2 dust filter cartridges.]   Shannon Walker installed the four alignment guides at the T2/COLBERT for load protection during the IWIS thruster firing test at 2:13am-3:03am EDT and then removed them again for the crew workouts.   Later, FE-6 started another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.    [This was the 30th session with the GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]   Walker also disconnected the UOP DCP (Utility Outlet Panel/Display & Control Panel) power bypass cable at the Lab RWS (Robotic Workstation) which supported additional video coverage of the Soyuz approach & docking.   Yurchikhin verified proper operation of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM (Service Module) for taking structural dynamics data during the Soyuz docking.  Afterwards, Fyodor downlinked the measurement data to the ground.     [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]   Afterwards, FE-5 also serviced the running experiment TEKh22/IDENTIFIKATSIYA in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet by downloading structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer to the RSE1 A31p laptop (last time done: 9/20).   Kaleri & Skripochka joined Yurchikhin in the regular inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).   Alex replaced books and updated procedures pages of RODF (Russian Operations Data File) documents for Increment 25 brought up on Soyuz 24S.    [Changes involve 6 different subjects, including 3 books on Medical Operations (MO), 1 book each on Life Support System (SOZh), Video & Audio (ViA), Photo (FOTO), E24/25 Handover Recommendations (RPS MKS) and 2 books on TORU.]   Fyodor performed IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the onboard Ethernet computer network in the SM, working to restore the health of the BRI Smart Switch Router (SSR).     [Steps included reconfiguration of its cabling, replacement of its power supply with a new spare (#1251) and changing network settings on the RSS1 laptop.    The old power supply was stowed for return to Earth, and the new setup was photographed for ground in section.  The BRI/SSR was then activated by TsUP/Moscow commanding, to be left on for a day, with the crew monitoring its performance.]   At ~10:40am EDT, the crew joined in supporting a Russian PAO downlink, transmitting greetings & wishes to three events.     [(1) to the participants of the All-Russian Contest “The Best Writing Class” on October 15 in Moscow, held by "Mail of Russia" & "Teacher's Newspaper" on October 15 in Moscow, with support by the Federal Agency for Education, the State Duma Committee on Education and Science, Federal Agency for CIS Affairs and a number of other organizations, (2) the 80th anniversary celebration of Russia’s beloved folk & opera singer Yuri Aleksandrovich Gulyayev, “People’s Artist of the USSR” of 1968, who was born on August 9, 1930 and died of heart failure at age 55, to be held October 16 at the Svetlanov Hall in Moscow, and (3) to the XVIII International School Space Science Contest “Space Olympiad”, held October 13-23 in Korolev near Moscow, by the Urban Education Committee and RSC-Energia with students from Russia, USA, Greece and England.]    Alex, Oleg & Scott had an hour each set aside for crew onboard orientation plus time for adaptation as required.    [During the first two weeks after their arrival, a new ISS crew will have 1 hour a day (or more if needed) to adjust to living in space.]   Working off his discretionary “time permitting” task list, Fyodor conducted the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   The “old” station residents worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-5).  [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  IWIS Thruster Test:    At 2:13am-3:03am EDT, the periodic DTF (Dedicated Thruster Firing) test for IWIS (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System) structural dynamics measuring suite was performed by Russian thrusters, designed to excite solar array S4-1A.  These measurements are in support of SDTO 13005-U (USS Structural Life Validation and Extension).  JPM, Lab & Node-3 Cupola windows were closed during the firing.    [For the IWIS thruster test, the ISS has to be in free drift. This period began at 2:20am for about 200 sec, followed by the firing from 2:23am-2:28am and another 200 sec period of free drift from 2:28pm-2:31pm.  After handover of attitude control authority to Russian MCS (Motion Control System) on 2:31am, the ISS was maneuvered back to LVLH TEA (Local Vertical Local Horizontal Torque Equilibrium Attitude), followed by return of attitude control to US CMGs at 3:15am.  Desats reduce the accumulated momentum of the CMGs of the US MCS (Motion Control System).]    No CEO photo targets uplinked for today.  