
Cold Atom Lab (CAL):  A Crewmember attached the Helium monitor to the front of the CAL hardware to collect readings. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Lighting Effects:  Crew performed a numerical and color discrimination visual test at a designated location. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2): Today the eight detectors were retrieved from NOD3F3 rack front area location and handed back to the Russian crew for data extraction and download. This Canadian Space Agency investigation measures neutron radiation levels in the ISS.  These bubble detectors are designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
BioServe Protein Crystallography (BPC)-1: A crewmember used pipettes to mix varying viscosity solutions into the crystallization plates. BPC-1 seeks to demonstrate the feasibility of conducting protein crystal growth in real time onboard the ISS.  Crewmembers add solutions to the hardware, observe the crystals that form and adjust for follow-on experiments. This approach gives scientists the ability to optimize crystal growth in microgravity instead of waiting for samples to return and then launching them again.
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)7 Cargo Transfer:  The crew continued HTV7 cargo transfer operations today. Ground specialists estimate approximately ~4 hours remain to complete transfer of identified items.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Li-Ion Battery Data Logging:  Today the crew initiated a charging Auto cycle of two EMU Long Life Batteries (LLB) with data logging. Over the course of three days, the Auto cycle will capture battery health data and help ground experts understand the charge and discharge capacities of these new and improved LLBs. The data will also be used to compare charging system performance between the on-orbit and ground based systems.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Nominal System Commanding

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Wednesday, 10/17:

Payloads: 

BCAT Camera Ops (NASA)
FROST2 ICE Pack Insert for LT PCG-4 (JAXA)
BPC Plate Sample load (NASA)

Systems: 

ARED Quarterly Maintenance
HTV-7 Cargo Operations
SODF Warning Book Updates

Thursday, 10/18:
Payloads:


Food Acceptability (NASA)
CIR Manifold Bottle Change (Joint Ops)
SPHERES Tether Slosh (NASA)
ISS HAM (NASA)

Systems: 

Water Recovery Management (WRM) Condensate Pumping

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Delta file prep
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
Video Recording of Greetings
Uragan. Observations and photo (Task list)
ECON-M. Observations and photo (Task list)
Visual inspection and leak monitoring using US ULD Leak Detector in Soyuz 739 БО. Report to MCC
Morning Preparation Work
Auxiliary Computer System [ВКС] Laptops Antivirus Software Checkout and Report
Test activation of [СКВ2] Air Conditioner System Compressor Unit from [СКВ1] Compressor, preparation
ITCS Coolant Sampling Adapter Installation at JPM1F1 Z-Panel
Test activation of [СКВ2] Air Conditioner System Compressor Unit from [СКВ1] Power Supply.
Transfer Operations – Pack and stow items on HTV
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and measurements.
PFS PuFF Calibration Syringe Maintenance
Radi-N Detector Retrieval/Readout
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons Hardware Handover
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeters from USOS
MATRYOSHKA-R.  BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and reading data, memory card prep for return
BioServe Protein Crystallography Maintenance Work Area Preparation
mobiPV Questionnaire
BioServe Protein Crystallography Plate Mix S/N 01
HRF Generic Ambient Blood Collection Stow
Biolab RPDA Front Panel Tether release by crew
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Wanted Poster for 4 lost CWCs
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Setup
Lighting Effects Visual Performance Tests GLA Setting Subject
Exercise data downlink via OCA
Unstow of items for Incubator Isolation Filter Exchange
Cold Atom Lab Helium Monitor Setup
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 1 Stow
On MCC GO Test activation of [СКВ2] Air Conditioner System Compressor Unit from [СКВ1] Power Supply
EVA Long Life Battery Station Support Computer Relocate
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Initiate
Preventive Maintenance of FS1 Laptop (Clean and reboot)
Biolab Incubator Biological Isolation Filters Exchange
Semi-annual BRI maintenance. Remating CSL cables on BRI.
Restow of items for Incubator Isolation Filter Exchange
Biolab CO2 manual valve opening
Transfer Operations – Pack and stow items on HTV
BioServe Protein Crystallography Plate Mix S/N 02
Testing Inter-modular connectivity (after semi-annual BRI maintenance).
HTV Cargo Operations Conference
Cold Atom Lab Helium Monitor Teardown

 