
Payloads:
Cerebral Autoregulation: The crew set up the appropriate hardware and performed a Cerebral Autoregulation science session. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight, and provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): The crew performed fluid management and seed cartridge/plant inspections. XROOTS is currently in the fourth and final planting for the experiment series. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
ISS Ham pass: The crew participated in an ISS Ham pass with Davis Aerospace Technical High School, Detroit, MI., USA. Some of the questions asked by the students include what the crew is learning about lightning as a result of ISS experiments, how toxins and other contaminants are removed from the ISS air, and whether ISS communication antennas are stabilized to maximize communication quality. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about 9 minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Lumina: The Lumina experiment hardware was power cycled, and a data transfer was initiated. The Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina) is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Myotones: Following a review of the Big Picture Words (BPW) and gathering of the appropriate hardware, the Myotones device was used to measure various body target areas. The Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones) investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g., muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth, as well as for future space missions.
Plant Habitat: The crew installed the Carbon Dioxide Monitor (CDM) in the growth chamber. This is a continuation of the work needed to prepare Plant Habitat for the next experiment, which arrives on NG-18. The Advanced Plant Habitat (Plant Habitat) is a fully automated facility that is used to conduct plant bioscience research on the ISS. It occupies the lower half of the EXPRESS Rack and one powered ISIS drawer, providing a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber.
Systems:
Airlock Preparation for Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) 2A3B-A Swap: In preparation for tomorrow’s Airlock RPCM 2A3B-A Swap, Extravehicular Activity (EVA) hardware was unstowed from the Airlock in order to access A/L1F1 Rack volume. EVA Batteries were also removed from the Battery Stowage Compartment, and crew verified that EVA hardware was powered off prior to ground safing to pull upstream power. The crew set up a Portable Fan Assembly (PFA) for temporary ventilation in the Airlock and demated Adapter Cables inside the Battery Stowage Compartment.
Environmental Control and Life Support (ECLS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Audit: As part of regular maintenance, the crew verified that the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Extension Hose Tee Kit (EHTK), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), and Pre-Breathe Mask are all free of damage to ensure functionality in the case of emergency. The PBA includes a Quick Don Mask (QDM) assembly connected to a PBA Oxygen Reducer/Cylinder Assembly. The audit also includes QDM Harness maintenance.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MT Translation

