
Human Research Facility (HRF) Ultrasound Status: Over the weekend ground teams and the crew were able to successfully troubleshoot the data files on the HRF Ultrasound and to upgrade the backup unit.  The data files for the CDR were downlinked and evaluated by specialists, and a repeat of the Fluid Shifts Baseline Imaging is not required.  Software was successfully loaded on the backup Ultrasound machine, and that unit is now available to be used for FE-5’s Baseline Imaging scheduled for Wednesday.
Astronaut’s Energy Requirement for Long-Term Space Flight (Energy): On Sunday, FE-5 completed the 11-day Energy experiment.   FE-6 also provided a urine sample for the investigation. The Energy investigation measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Astronauts often lose body mass with extended stays in space for reasons that remain unclear, although increased exercise as a microgravity countermeasure may be a factor. Knowing details of astronaut metabolism and activity, combined with other conditions, will help ensure that crews are properly nourished on long missions.
Fluid Shifts Dilution Measurements: FE-5, with blood draw assistance from FE-6, performed the first part of the USOS Fluid Shift activities – Dilution Measurement. Upon wakeup FE-5 collected saliva, blood and urine and inserted them into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) prior to ingesting a Sodium Bromide (NaBr) tracer.  Throughout the day, he performed more urine, blood, and saliva collections, inserting those samples into MELFI as well. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Audit:  FE-6 completed the audit of the PEPS hardware in the N1, N3, PMM and A/L locations this morning.  The PEPS audit is performed to verify Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Extension Hose Tee Kit (EHTK), the Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), and Pre-Breathe Mask are all free of damage to ensure functionality. The Audit also includes a Mask Harness Inspection. The audit is to be performed once every 365 days. For an audit the crew will also record the hardware serial numbers or barcodes, and locations. This information is needed to track shelf life and life cycles on the hardware. 
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) On-Board Training (OBT):  FE-6 completed her CMO OBT session earlier today. These lessons provide a refresher course and cover some of the equipment and procedures that are taught in the CMO classes prior to launch. The lessons include text, pictures, and video detailing previously learned medical procedures and hardware. The lesson content is designed to promote crewmember proficiency and knowledge of the Health Maintenance System, as well as advanced life support procedures during long duration missions. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Fluid Shifts Saliva Baseline Collection
Fluid Shifts Urine Collection
Fluid Shifts MELFI Insertion Operations
Fluid Shifts Blood Baseline Collection
Fluid Shifts Galley Water Collection Tracer Ingestion Operations
Fluid Shifts Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
Fluid Shifts Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
Closing Window Shutters # 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14 Note 7
USOS Window Shutter Close
Transfer of Cosmocard Results to the Memory Card for Return
Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluation Setup
ИП-1 Sensors Installation Monitoring
DOSIS  Mode Switching Mode 2 to Mode 1
Samples Collection from the Gas-Liquid Mixture
Fine Motor Skills Experiment Test – Subject
Fluid Shifts Urine Collection – Subject
Fluid Shifts MELFI Retrieve Insertion Operations
Kazbek Fitcheck
Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Deployment Operations
Personal CO2 Monitor Donn
Grab Sample Container (GSC) Sampling Operations
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluation
Fluid Shifts Blood 3-Hour Collection – Subject
Fluid Shifts Blood Collection – Operator
Fluid Shifts Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
Fluid Shifts Saliva 3-Hour Collection – Subject
Fluid Shifts MELFI Retrieve Insertion Operations
Periodic Health Status Stow
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
ISS CREW/SSIPC CONFERENCE
Transfer of Cargo to SM Aft Progress #432 for Disposal. IMS Update Removal of ССД305 Light Fixture from Progress #432
Fluid Shifts Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
Fluid Shifts MELFI Retrieve Insertion Operations
Fluid Shifts Blood Collection Conclude Stow
Water Resource System (WRS) Microbial Removal Filter (MRF) Cartridge Removal and Replacement
Fluid Shifts Saliva 5-Hour Collection – Subject
Fluid Shifts MELFI Retrieve Insertion Operations
Fluid Shifts Urine Collection End – Subject
Report on Completion of Cago Transfer to SM Aft Progress #432
Fluid Shifts MELFI Insertion Operations
INTER-MAI-75. РЛС Hardware Activation
Personal CO2 Monitor Power Cycle
PK4. Experiment Ops
SPHERES Slosh Hard Drive Stow
Fluid Shifts Urine Collection Stow
Meteor Hard Drive Swapout
Preventive Maintenance of the Sealing Mechanisms of SM АСП-О and SM Aft Progress 432 Active Docking Assembly ([ACA]) Hatches.
Water Recovery System Waste Water Tank Drain Init
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations – Subject
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Filling In (Degassing) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV (flush water container)
Fluid Shifts Hardware Battery Installation
Water Recovery System Waste Water Tank Drain Termination
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
JAXA EPO Electrostatic Levitation Furnace Introduction Message
СОЖ maintenance
CCE Preparation
INTER-MAI-75. РЛС Hardware Deactivation
Crew Choice Event
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 System (T2) Monthly Inspection
Meteor Shutter Open
Personal CO2 Monitor Power Cycle

Completed Task List Items

External Television Camera Group Light Stowage [Completed Monday]
SPHERES Slosh USB Download [Completed Monday]
Replace KTO [Completed Monday]
Clean Bench (CB) Valve Checkout [Completed Sunday]
JLP Power Panel Installation [Completed Sunday]
JEM NeST Fasteners (two) position verification [Completed Sunday]
Payloads Network Attached Storage (NAS) Vent Cleaning [Completed Sunday]
CWC-I Trash Gather [Completed Saturday]
JAXA Report Part 7 [Completed Saturday]
USND2 HRF Troubleshoot [Completed Saturday]
EVA Tool Stow Part 5
Wet Lab RNA SmartCycler Session Cleanup
Wet Lab RNA SmartCycler Smart Tube Contamination Test
Wet Lab RNA SmartCycler Hard Drive Swap
Wet Lab RNA SmartCycler Hardware Installation
Wet Lab RNA SmartCycler MELFI Remove
SSC5-Primary Hard Drive Swap

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Lab MCA Full Calibration
Battery 4B2 Reconditioning
63P Prop Purge

