
Ocular Health:  One year crewmembers Kelly and Kornienko initiated their Flight Day 210 Ocular Health testing by completing vision and tonometry tests and taking blood pressure measurements with the assistance of Yui.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly recorded a Sleep Log entry today.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Story Time from Space: Yui recorded a reading from “Max Goes to the Space Station” today.  The recording will be downlinked to the ground and used for educational purposes.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Review:  Today Kelly, Lindgren, and Yui reviewed a briefing package associated with the upcoming ISS Upgrades EVA.  Among the items reviewed is the EVA detailed timeline, EVA tasks, safety tether plan, translations paths, photo requirements, and hand signals.  The ISS Upgrades EVA is scheduled to occur on October 28, 2015.
 
ISS Emergency Drill:  All six crewmembers participated in an ISS emergency drill and debrief.  The crew used an onboard simulator to guide their responses during two separate simulations (Rapid Depress and Fire). The purpose of this training is to practice ISS emergency responses based on information provided by the simulator. The crew physically translates through ISS to appropriate locations in order to visualize the use of station equipment and interfaces. They also practice procedure execution and associated decision making, all while exercising communication skills with MCC-H and MCC-M.
 
X2R14 Software Transition:  On Sunday, Flight Controllers successfully loaded Command and Control System (CCS) R14 software onto 2 of 3 C&C Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) and performed an MDM transition in order to utilize the new software on the Primary C&C MDM.  Lindgren then powered on and connected Portable Computer Systems (PCS) loaded with new PCS R17 software.  Today, Flight Controllers continued with the X2R14 software transition by loading Hub Control Zone (HCZ) R4 to both HCZ MDMs in Node 3 and loaded the 3rd C&C MDM with CCS R14.
 
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA):  On Saturday, Node 3 CDRA experienced a fault on its Heater Controller B.  As a result, Flight Controllers activated the Lab CDRA.  After some troubleshooting which involved isolating the fault to the secondary heater string, flight controllers masked the associated Passive Built In Test (PBIT) and activated the Node 3 CDRA using the single string of heaters.  Later, the Node 3 CDRA was commanded to standby in preparation for the HCZ software transition today.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted. 

Inspection of СМ-У, РУ2, РУ4, РУ5 connector on МНР-НС separator pump in [АСУ] behind panel 139 and line 5182-03 from Pretreat and Water Dispenser (ДКиВ) to [МНР] in its transparent section
SLEEP Questionnaire
МО-8
Body Mass Measurement
HMS – Vision Test
Comm config for conference from MRM1
Story Time – Why So Fast Read
Installation and Connection of КЛ-108/109Ц Monoblock in MRM1.
HMS – Vision Questionnaire
Ocular Health (OH) – Blood Pressure Operations
Ocular Health Experiment – Tonometry
Study of Cardiovascular System Under Graded Physical Load on VELO.
Operator assistance in study of cardiovascular system under graded physical load on VELO
SODF Update
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops.
IMS Delta File Prep
EVA Procedure Review
СОЖ Maintenance
ISS Emergency Response OBT.
OBT ISS Emergency Drill Debrief
Preparing for ТМ168-04 (TM parameter Т264) Temperature Sensor replacement in SM. [Aborted] 
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
CONTUR-2. Experiment Session Ops.
OBT ISS Emergency Drill Conference (S-band)
EVA Procedure Conference
PAO Event

 
Completed Task List Items

CCE – Spreading Wings Event
61P USOS Cargo Unpack [In Work]

 
Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted. 

HCZ MDM R4 Software Load
Standby C&C MDM Software Load

 
