
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS): Over the Weekend, the crew checked the camera alignment and focus settings by viewing the latest BCAT images on a laptop. BCAT-CS focuses on the study of forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles. Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration 
Loop Heat Pipe Radiator LHPR): ISS crew reconfigured the cable connection for the JEM Ethernet Extender in preparation for the Loop Heat Pipe Radiator. The LHPR is an advanced two-phase heat transfer device that utilizes the evaporation and condensation of a working fluid to transfer heat, and the capillary force to circulate the fluid. This investigation demonstrates the heat transfer performance/functions under microgravity conditions using the LHPR experimental apparatus, which is grappled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS). This technology can be applied in the thermal control system of future satellites that generate large amounts of heat that could negatively affect satellite operations.
Life Support Rack (LSR): ISS crew continued configuration for the Life Support rack by installing the CO2 absorbers and setup of the Air Water Management System. LSR is a European Space Agency technology demonstrator for closed loop air revitalization. It captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR operates for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions
Zero-g Battery Testing: A crewmember completed testing of a sample alkaline batteries. All batteries passed and were restowed for return. Over many years, some crewmembers have reported that batteries on orbit do not last as long as they do on the ground. In the Zero-g Battery Testing experiment, an ISS crew member installs several sets of batteries into a standard camera flash, identifies batteries that fail to work, and returns them to the ground for analysis. If battery life is, in fact, shorter in space, this knowledge could lead to development of better batteries for use in space and on the ground.
HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-7 Cargo Transfer: The crew continued HTV-7 cargo transfer operations today. Ground specialists estimate approximately ~7 hours remain to complete transfer of identified items.
Completed Task List Activities:

Spacetex-2 questionnaire filling 1-4 (Completed Sunday, GMT 287)

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.
Two-Day Look Ahead:
Tuesday, 10/16:  

Payloads: 

CAL HE Monitor (NASA)
LTE Visual GLA Test  (NASA)
RADi-N2 Retrieve and Handoff
Actiwatch Spectrum Setup and Stow (NASA)
Biolab Maintenance (ESA)
HRF PFM H/W Trash (NASA)
PFS Maintenance (NASA)
BPC Sample Mix (NASA) I
ISS HAM (NASA)

Systems: 

Environmental Health System (EHS) Water Operations
EMU Long Life Battery (LLB) auto-cycle maintenance
HTV-7 Cargo Operations

Wednesday, 10/17
Payloads:


BCAT Camera ops (NASA)
FROST2 ICE pack insert (JAXA)
BPC Plate sample load (NASA)

Systems: 

ARED Quarterly Maintenance
HTV-7 Cargo Operations
SODF Warning Book Updates

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis and Record
mobiPV Questionnaire
Record COP24 script
Record UN Forum Script
Record VDE Summit Script
EVA Procedure Review for Suit IV
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Training Review
IMS Delta File Prep
Personal hygiene items audit. Personal hygiene items selection for priority use
International Procedure Viewer Tablet Questionnaire
Loop Heat Pipe Demo Cable Reconfiguration1
Life Support Rack Air Water Management Drawer Preparation
Life Support Rack CO2 Management Drawer Preparation
Photo and Video Recording of Life on Station
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos web site and social media
XF305 Camcorder Setup
HTV Transfer Operations
HTV Cargo Operations Conference
Zero-G Battery Testing MWA Preparation
URAGAN. Observations and Photography
SCENARIO. Observation and photography using the camera
Preparation for the Antivirus Scanning of [ВКС] Laptops
Auxiliary Laptop Computer System Virus Definition File Update
ECON-M. Observation and photography
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment setup
МО-8. Setup and closeout
Body Mass Measurement – BMMD
МП urine receptacle and Ф-В filter insert replacement in [АСУ]. [АСУ] activation after replacement
ELEKTRON pre-activation purge [Aborted]
Visual inspection and leak check, using US leak detector ULD in the orbital compartment [БО] of Soyuz №739. Report to MCC during comm pass

 