10-12-2010October 12, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/12/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  At wake-up, FE-2 Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-2 again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  After wakeup, CDR Wheelock & FE-6 Walker performed a new session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.      [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  CDR Wheelock, FE-3 Kelly & FE-6 Walker continued their current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 6th for Wheels & Shannon, 1st for Scott, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  The crew started out with the periodic pre-breakfast session of the Russian biomedical routine assessment PZEh-MO-8/Body Mass Measurement, using the IM mass measurement device.  Yurchikhin set up the IM and later stowed it away.  The three Russian crewmembers, Alex, Oleg & Fyodor, also completed the PZEh-MO-7/Calf Volume Measurement protocol.     [For determining body mass in zero-G, where things are weightless but not massless, the Russian IM "scales" for MO-8 measure the inertial forces that arise during the oscillatory motion of a mass driven by two helical metering springs with known spring constants.  By measuring the time period of each oscillation of the unknown mass (the crewmember) and comparing it to the period of a known mass, the crewmember’s mass is calculated by the computer and displayed. MO-7 Calf measurements (left leg only) are taken with the IZOG device, a custom-sewn fabric cuff that fits over the calf, using the knee and lower foot as fixed reference pints, to provide a rough index of deconditioning in zero-G and effectiveness of countermeasures. ]  After transferring the ESA/Swiss PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators) experiment samples to the cooled down BLB TCU 2 (Biolab Thermal Control Unit 2) yesterday, the CDR today removed the PADIAC ECs (Experiment Containers) and transferred them to MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) set at -95 degC.    [PADIAC studies activation of T-cells (mature white blood cells from the thymus gland) in microgravity to improve the knowledge of the immune system.]  Afterwards, Doug copied PADIAC temperature & centrifuge data from the KUBIK 6 refrigerator (in KUBIK Drawer) to the EDR (European Drawer Rack) laptop in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and from there to the EDR MMU (Mass Memory Unit) for downlink.  KUBIK 3 was then disconnected from EDR and put in stowage.      [The move involved 2 PADIAC KUBIK 6 experiment data files of maximum 200kb each (Temperature & Centrifuge data) as installed in EDR via the KID (KUBIK Interface Drawer) and thence to the EDR MMU root directory.]  Wheelock & Walker performed the periodic module hatch seal inspections, today at Node-1 Aft & Stbd, Node-2 Port & Stbd, Lab Fwd, JPM Stbd & Zenith and JLP.     [Crew note from Shannon:  “All hatched looked fine.  Just a little dust, which was vacuumed off and/or dry-wiped, depending on which side of the hatch it was. “]  After temporarily removing the T2/COLBERT handrail to clear work space, Wheelock continued with Sabatier outfitting in Node-3.  Today’s activities were (1) installing the Sabatier guide rails (left/right) into the OGS (Oxygen Generator System) Rack structure, (2) mounting the Sabatier ORUs (Orbit replaceable Units) onto the Sabatier reactor’s frame, and (3) installing the Sabatier reactor itself into the OGS left rack volume.     [Three ORUs were installed on the reactor: the Main Controller, the Motor Controller, and the Compressor, with launch locks removed and cover plates attached.]  Fyodor Yurchikhin supported the Sabatier effort by readying and setting up the IFM (Inflight Maintenance) Non-Intrusive Flow Meter and Shuttle Breakout box in preparation for the upcoming ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) flow adjusting/balancing within the OGS rack by Scott Kelly after the Sabatier reactor is fully connected and ready to produce water. . The six-member crew joined for the important 2-hr Crew Safety Handover (peredacha del po bezopasnosti), to familiarize them with procedures and escape routes in case of an emergency, and to clarify emergency roles & responsibilities.  CDR Wheelock went through formally listed procedures in discussing the ISS prime to non-prime crew emergency roles & responsibility agreements established during ground training.  A 20-min ground specialist tagup wrapped up the obligatory session.      [Safety is of primary concern on board.  Safety Handover includes safety-related items such as (1) emergency actions, equipment and individual crew roles & responsibilities for the four hazard areas (depressurization, fire, ammonia release, non-ammonia toxic release), (2) visiting vehicles docking/undocking, (3) evacuation vehicles, (4) crew life support system status, (5) computers, (6) communications, (7) medical equipment & provisions, (8) stowage, (9) IVA hazards (e.g., sharp edges, protrusions, touch temperatures) and (10) stowage and current hardware status.  Aboard the station are 2 potential sources of Toxic Level 4-chemicals (external thermal loops; Vozdukh) and 7 Tox-2 sources such as Elektron, METOX cans, LiOH cans and batteries.  Prime/non-prime crew roles assignments: the CDR will be responsible for crew headcount; for Fire in the RS (Russian Segment), the three cosmonauts will be prime, i.e. responsible for generally working the response, while Wheelock, Kelly & Walker would stay in their respective Soyuz vehicles or other safe areas; for Rapid Depress, designated crewmembers would calculate the all-important T.res (remaining time), manipulate valves & hatches, run procedures & coordinate communications; for a Toxic Leak (ammonia), each crewmember is assigned specific tasks in retrieving respirators, detection kits, Sokol suits, go-to locations, etc.  Soyuz vehicle preparations for descent could be required very quickly.]  FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the “bake-out” cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated at ~4:30pm EDT before sleep time.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday by Fyodor.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 9/20-9/21).]  Yurchikhin configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his 4th, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic & physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]  After yesterday’s R&R (removal & replacement) of the BRI Smart Router’s power supply in the SM (Service Module), FE-5 today performed a checkout of the BRI and its cabling after replacing its configuration files from the RSS1 laptop.     [Due to the failed BRI, the SM SRK Radiation Monitoring System was connected since 9/14 to the KPTs1 Central Post Computer 1 via the ASP Network Connections Adapter.]  Afterwards, Fyodor also disconnected the PU/ATV Console Panel of the ATV PCE (Automated Transfer Vehicle Proximity Communications Equipment; Russian: MBRL).  For current tests, see note below.     [MBRL, in the SM, will be used for the approach & docking of the European ATV-2 “Johannes Kepler”, currently planned to be launched 2/15/2011.]  Accompanied by Oleg Skripochka as part of the crew handover “mentoring” program, Yurchikhin used the CMS (Countermeasure System), a component of the SKDS GANK-4M suite, to perform the monthly standard check on the SM cabin air, today looking for Carbon Monoxide, Acetic Acid and Nitrous Gases.     [CMS uses preprogrammed microchips to measure for numerous contaminants such as O-Xylol (1,2-Dimethylbenzol, C8H10), Hydrogen Chloride (HCl), Formaldehyde, Isopropanol, Methanol, Toluene, Mercaptan, Sulphur dioxide, Hydrogen Cyanide, Phosgene, etc.],  Activities conducted by FE-6 Shannon Walker included –  With a new EDV-U container in the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment), performing the reconnecting of the WHC from backflow back to feeding the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) and reporting the flush counter,Performing the periodic calibration check on the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer),Supplementing the WPA WWT (Water Processor Assembly / Waste Water Tank) with stored water pumped over from an EDV container,Replacing the pre-treat tank and pre-treat tank hose in the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) with new spares,Conducting the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) in Node-3, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose,  [after the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged],Completing her 4th onboard session with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application   [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies],Performing the regular camera setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) with Sample 7, done one, three and five days after initializing, andWorking on the ARED advanced resistive exerciser with vibration isolation to conduct its periodic visual inspection, checking out the rails & rollers and greasing the Y- and Z-axes rails & rollers as required.   The newcomers – Kelly, Kaleri & Skripochka – went through the mandatory CMS (Countermeasure Systems) overview session to familiarize themselves with the use of the CEVIS cycle ergometer, TVIS & T2 treadmills and ARED exerciser, including location of personal exercise equipment such as ergometer shoes and PCMCIA memory cards.  Afterwards, Alex & Oleg reviewed procedures and details of the TVIS, while Scott focused on a review of CEVIS & ARED exercising.  Alex then reformatted his TVIS PCMICA memory card with his crew information as required prior to his first TVIS session, while Scott swapped CEVIS protocols, thus automatically transferring the CEVIS protocol to his PCMCIA (Portable Computer Memory Card International Adapter).  FE-1 Kaleri started his first session of the standard 24-hour ECG (electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2 protocol.     [After 24 hrs of ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system, Alex will doff the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads and recorded on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results will then be downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data will be downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]  Kaleri also ran a familiarization test for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.   Later, Alex & Oleg had ~70 min set aside for unloading the Soyuz 24S spacecraft and transferring cargo to the ISS.  Continuing the current round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems started last week by Yurchikhin, Skripochka changed out the cartridges of the four dust filters (PF1-4) in the SM, discarding the used cartridges.  Kaleri did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Yurchikhin conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Before sleeptime tonight, Oleg sets up the Russian MBI-12 payload and starts his first Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  Alex, Oleg & Scott had an hour each set aside for crew onboard orientation and adaptation.    [During the first two weeks after their arrival, a new ISS crew will have 1 hour a day (or more if needed) to adjust to living in space.]  At ~12:55pm, Fyodor had his standard PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- & Ku-band audio/video.  The “older” crew worked out on the 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (FE-5), and ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5, FE-6).  ATV PCE Checkout:    The ATV PCE (Automated Transfer Vehicle Proximity Communications Equipment; Russian: MBRL) is being checked out by ESA/TsUP today, tomorrow and Thursday, to verify proper operation of the PCE WAL3 (Low Gain) and WAS2 (Medium Gain) antennas as well as the PCE equipment internal to the SM.  The WAL3 & WAS2 antennas are prime for ATV Rendezvous operations.  As part of the checkout, the PCE equipment is activated, directed to perform a self-test and switched to CW (Carrier Wave) mode.  After an attitude maneuver that maximizes coverage for the antenna(s) being tested, the PCE transmits a beacon to ESA’s Maspalomas (MAS) and Villafranca (VIL) Ground Stations.  The ground stations track the ISS, check that the CW signal is received, verify the proper RF power level, and record the evolution of the RF power level over time.  For the duration of the maneuvers, Lab, JPM and Nopde-3 Cupola windows are shuttered and the SARJ (Solar Alpha Rotary Joint) is feathered (arrays facing RS thrusters edge-on).  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today (due to the Holiday yesterday).  