
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Safing:  Today Kelly prepared the JEM Airlock for the return of NanoRack Cubesat Deployer 6 (NRCSD#6) from the exterior of the ISS to the JEM next week.  He pressurized the Airlock and performed a leak check.  Because Deployer #6 contains two unlaunched cubesats, he removed the Lamp Housing Assembly from inside the Airlock, secured the Hatch Window Cover Assembly to protect the Airlock window and secured the Handhold Experiment Platform Multi-Layer Insulation (MLI) to the Airlock Inner Hatch.  He then depressed and vented the JEM Airlock.
 
Plant Gravity Sensing 2 (PGS2) Run 1:  Two days ago Lindgren treated Arabidopsis plants growing in culture dishes for the PGS2 experiment with a chemical reagent that supports a bioluminescence response proportional to calcium concentrations in the plants.  Plant calcium concentrations have been shown to change in response to changes in the gravity vector the plants are exposed to.  Yesterday Yui placed the culture dishes in a Photon Counting Unit (PCU) where photon measurements were taken over the next 24 hours as the dishes were spun in a centrifuge to create an artificial 1G environment.  Today Yui removed the culture dishes, flipped them over, and returned them to the PCU for another 24 hour measurement of photon emissions with the reversed gravity vector.  The PGS2 investigation supports the study of cellular formation of the plant’s gravity sensors and the molecular mechanism for gravity sensing in plants grown in microgravity conditions.
 
Cognition: Yui and Lindgren performed their Flight Day 84 sessions of the Cognition experiment. Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Large Format Motion Picture Camera (IMAX):  Lindgren connected the IMAX Codex to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for a downlink of recorded video files.  IMAX filmmakers intend to produce a three dimensional movie called A Perfect Planet, using ISS-based video and images to show how natural and human forces shape planet Earth. The film will also showcase NASA’s exploration efforts and highlight the ISS as a platform for scientific research and a stepping stone to deep space exploration.
 
Ocular Health Ocular and Cardiac Ultrasounds:  Yui and Lindgren performed ocular and cardiac ultrasounds today as part of their Flight Day 90 Ocular Health testing.  The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Reaction Self-Test:  One year crewmembers Kelly and Kornienko performed sessions for the Reaction Self-Test investigation.  Reaction Self-Test helps crewmembers objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, extravehicular activity (EVA), and residual sedation from sleep medications).
 
Radi-N Neutron Field Study (Radi-N):  Kornienko handed over eight Radi-N detectors to Yui who deployed them around the ISS for the Radi-N experiment. The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
 
Space Headaches:  Lindgren answered his weekly Space Headaches questionnaire today.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
X2R14 Software Preparation:  Lindgren gathered Portable Computer System (PCS) hard drives which are pre-loaded with PCS R17 software and placed them into 4 PCS laptops. The 4 PCSs will not be powered on until after the Command and Control (C&C) Multiplexer/Demultiplexers (MDM) are transitioned to CCS R14 software on Saturday.  The new PCS software contains display updates and fixes.
.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Kelly and Lindgren each utilized a Virtual Reality Trainer to practice using the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER).  SAFER is a small, self-contained, propulsive system worn by the crew during EVAs.  SAFER would only be used in case of an emergency, providing the EVA crewmember free-flying mobility in order to return to ISS.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted. 

JEM Airlock Protection
Recycle Tank R&R
EVA SAFER VRT
X2R14 Message Review
FFQ
Ultrasound scans
RADI-N Deploys
PCS R17 Harddrive Deploy
Reaction Self-Test
Demating telemetry connectors on БИТС2-12 Memory Device (СЗУ)
Mating Telemetry Connectors to TVS Antenna Feeder
Replacement of ЭА025 (ЗУ1А, ЗУ2А) Devices with БИТС2-12 Static Memory Device (СЗУ)
MATRYOSHKA-R. Gathering and Initialization of Bubble-Dosimeter Detectors
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeters to USOS
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter initialization and deployment
Mating БИТС2-12 Static Memory Device (СЗУ) telemetry connectors
Audio Session with Orlyonok Russian Children’s Center
ISS Emergency OBT Prep
IMAX CODEXBAT Changeout
OH-Cardiac Ops
Debrief Topic
PGS2 Sample
СОЖ Maintenance
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring
Installation of БВС Equipment (as part of КЛ-121/122Ц monoblock installation)
EVA LLB ChargeLife On The Station Photo and Video
RGN-WSTA-Fill
ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filter Replacement and В1, В2 Fan Grille Cleaning in DC1 (ФГБ1ПГО_4_419_1, bag 429-16 (00068131R)
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
Vacuum Cleaning of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in DC1
Fundoscope Exam Setup (instilling eye drops for a pupil dilation)
CONTUR-2. Installation of master arm with adapter on panel 418
IMS Delta File Prep
Fundoscope – Eye Examination
CONTUR-2. Experiment Session Ops.
CONTUR-2. De-installation of master arm with adapter from panel 418
Reaction Self-Test
Video Footage of Greetings
Cognition Test

 
Completed Task List Items

SDM-COL-Restow-Pt2
PMM Stowage Reconfiguration
P/TV-D4 Sensor Clean

 
Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted. 

X2R14 MSS8 File Uplinks
CCS R14 File Load
OPALS Transfer

 
