
Payloads:
Wireless Compose-2: On Monday, a crewmember donned the SmartTex-2 shirt and performed a Ballistocardiography experiment session. The main scientific goal of the Wireless Communication Network (Wireless Compose-2) investigation is to provide a flexible and adaptable wireless network infrastructure to conduct and execute low-power, light-weight, and wireless experiments on the ISS. For this demonstration, Wireless Compose-2 operates several experiments, including an experiment to examine the impact of the space environment on the cardiovascular system. Additionally, Wireless Compose-2 demonstrates the ability of newly developed impulse radio ultra-wide band (IR-UWB) hardware to enable precise localization applications and to analyze the energy harvesting potential on the ISS.
ISS Ham Radio: ISS HAM contact was made with Harris Middle School, Spruce Pine, N.C. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 3 (Robo-Pro Challenge 3): Crewmembers reviewed procedures and scripts yesterday, and crew support was provided today for the final round of Kibo Robot Programming Challenge 3. This involved orienting the Astrobee flyers into Start Positions and releasing Astrobee and catching as needed. The Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 3 (Robo-Pro Challenge 3) is an educational program in which students solve various given problems by using free-flying robots (NASA’s Astrobee and JAXA’s Internal Ball Camera) aboard the ISS. JAXA hosts this program in cooperation with NASA under the framework of the Japan-United States Open Platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3). Robo-Pro Challenge 3 aims to inspire the next generation of scientists, engineers, and world leaders by providing opportunities to learn cutting-edge methodologies in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) subjects.
Rhodium Space Microbiome Isolates: Rhodium Science Chamber S/N 0026 was removed from SABL-2 and inserted into MELFI-3. Characterization of Targeted Space Gut Microbiome Isolates to Advance Astronaut Gut-On-A-Chip Platform Development (Rhodium Space Microbiome Isolates) characterizes individual bacterial species from the human gut microbiome that change during spaceflight. Research shows a connection between alterations in the gut microbiome and multiple chronic and acute diseases. Studies also show that changes occur in the composition and function of the gut microbiome during spaceflight. A better understanding of these changes could support development of ways to help protect people on future missions from potential negative effects.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): A nutrient fill was performed on the XROOTS facility. The crew performed a plant check of the individual plant modules. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Crew-4 Departure Preparation: A number of activities were completed by the crew in preparation for the departure of Crew-4. Sleeping bags were stowed and deployed in campout and Dragon locations. Cleaning, stowage, and inventory management tasks were performed, and cargo was packed in Crew Dragon. The Crew Alternate Sleeping Accommodation (CASA) was vacuumed and disinfected after short duration use. As part of the Crew Dragon tablet sync, the crew updated emergency deorbit procedures and other data from SpaceX using CloudNet and charged the iPad battery. The crew also performed a functional handover to transfer crew knowledge of the intricacies of onboard equipment and working in microgravity. Lastly, a Crew Dragon Seat Actuator checkout was performed.
EXPRESS Laptop Computer (ELC) Shell Swap: The crew performed activities to replace the Lab ELC2 Zbook shell with a stowed spare. They removed the ELC2 primary and Ultrabay High Definition Drive (HDD), and then installed that same hardware into the new Zbook shell and connected power, data, and peripherals and confirmed that it booted to the login screen.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Hydrogen (H2) Sensor Tech Demo Remove & Replace (R&R): After gathering materials and tools, the crew took a water sample from the OGS Recirculation Loop for Return-to-Ground analysis. They also temporarily removed the H2 Sensor Tech Demo on the front of the OGS Rack and then R&Red the H2 Sensor. Crewmembers then cleaned the Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) and connected QDs to the H2 sensor and closed the rack. The H2 Sensor Tech Demo was reinstalled after temporary removal from the OGS Rack.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) R&R: The crew completed routine maintenance to replace the urine receptacle and insert filter. As part of the R&R, the crew cleaned the WHC power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance.
EDV Transfer Hose R&R: The EDV Transfer Hose was R&Red when connected to the Offload EDV and the Urine Transfer System is active. The old EDV hose was double-bagged in preparation for return to ground. The EDV Transfer Hose was R&Red due to a slowdown in Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) fill transfer rates when connected to Offload EDV with UTS active.
Water Recovery System (WRS) Contingency Water Container (CWC)-Iodine Fill: The CWC is a soft container with an inner bladder that can store a variety of liquids including humidity condensate, wastewater, and other unique fluids such as Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) wastewater. Today’s activity involved transferring water from the Potable Bus into a CWC-Iodine container using the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD). Iodine was added to purify the water. The crew monitored the offload time as a secondary control to protect the CWC-Iodine from over-pressurization.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Helmet Familiarization: The crew practiced removal and installation of helmets from the EVA Mobility Units (EMUs) currently installed on the EMU Don/Doff Assemblies (EDDAs).
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Crew Dragon System Undock Activation
Crew Dragon Prop Checkout
Cargo Dragon Avionics Reboots
Crew Dragon C2V2 Checkout for Departure
Dragon GNC Checkout
Crew Dragon TDRS Checkout
Dragon Ground Checkout

