
Lighting Effects:  A 51S crewmember conducted a Visual Performance Test by stowing the hardware in their crew quarters, setting the light to the correct mode, turning all other light sources in the crew quarters off, and performing a Numerical Verification Test and a Color Discrimination Test. The completed tests were photographed and downlinked. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Astronaut Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight (Energy): Today a 51S crewmember initiated Day 0 activities to support the Energy investigation. The subject donned an armband monitor, set up the Pulmonary Function System (PFS) hardware, and began eating a controlled diet. For this part of the investigation, additionally, a control subject participated, with both crewmembers collecting urine samples at approximately the same time over the next 11 days (Day 0 through Day 10). The Energy investigation measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Nine astronauts will be examined during exercise and rest cycles three months before launch, three months after arriving at space station and adapting to the space environment, and after return to Earth. Physicians will measure metabolic rates, urine content, and bone density to determine energy needs.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): After retrieving the RaDI-N hardware from the Russian crewmembers, a USOS crewmember deployed eight Space Bubble Detectors around the ISS for the Radi-N experiment. The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) RaDI-N investigation will be conducted by measuring neutron radiation levels while onboard the ISS. RaDI-N uses bubble detectors as neutron monitors which have been designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Repository): Today a 52S crewmember completed Flight Day (FD) 30 urine and blood sample collections in support of the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples are obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

NanoRacks Kestrel Eye Satellite Preparation and Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Installation: Using the maintenance work area (MWA), the crew prepared the Kestrel Eye satellite for deployment by attaching the satellite to the Kaber, and on the JEM Airlock slide table, the crew attached the Kaber to the JEM CLPA Adapter Plate (JCAP). Following the Kestrel Eye satellite installation, the crew took measurements to ensure that the hardware was within tolerance of the JEM A/L deployment envelope.  The measurements exceeded the tolerances by a small amount, so ground teams are discussing a forward plan.  A decision is expected later this evening.  In the meantime, the slide table was retracted in manual mode and the inner hatch was closed. The JEM A/L has been depressurized.  NanoRacks-SMDC-Kestrel Eye IIM (NanoRacks-KE IIM) is a microsatellite carrying an optical imaging system payload, including a commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) telescope. The investigation validates the concept of using microsatellites in low-Earth orbit to support critical operations. An overall goal is to demonstrate that small satellites are viable platforms for providing critical path support to operations and hosting advanced payloads.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew performed an R&R of the WHC urine receptacle and insert filter. Following the R&R a successful WHC functionality test was performed. 
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  On Saturday, Robotic Ground Controllers walked the SSRMS onto the Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 1 (PDGF1). They then maneuvered the SSRMS to unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from MBS PDGF2. On Sunday, the SSRMS maneuvered to support a survey of the Neutron Star Interior Composition ExploreR (NICER) and Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) using the SPDM Camera Light Pan/Tilt Unit (PTU) Assemblies (CLPAs).  Finally, the Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite 2 (WS2) to WS7 and the SPDM and SSRMS were configured for the start of the Kaber / Kestral Eye 2M deploy. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were performed unless otherwise noted.

Life On The Station Photo and Video
Roskosmos and social media features preparation
Ryaska – planned experiment hw – search and inventory
URAGAN. Observation and photography
ECON-M. Observation and photography
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
Orthostatic Tolerance Exercise Reminder
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection – Operator
Kestrel Satellite Operations Review
Water transfer from tank БВ1 Rodnik in Progress 436 (SM aft) to tank БВ1 Rodnik  in SM
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
KE2M Maintenance Work Area Preparation
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
Combined Satt-1 Maintenance Work Area Relocation Assist
Kestral Eye Satellite  Maintenance Work Area Relocation
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Assessing potential increase of air circulation rate in SM working compartment big diameter
Kestral Eye Satellite Hardware Gather
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection
Water transfer from tank БВ1 Rodnik in Progress 436 (SM aft) to tank БВ1 Rodnik  in SM – compressor restart
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
DUBRAVA. Observation and photography using ВСС science equipement. Tagup with specialists
Monitoring ИП-1 sensors install
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Conclude Stow
Kestrel Eye Hardware Preparation and Installation onto JEM Airlock Slide Table
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
FGB ГА – vacuum cleaning
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval Insertion Operations
TIMER. Preparing experiment and taking video of experiment start
Kestrel Eye Satt Assist
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
VIZIR. Experiment run. Tagup with specialists
СОЖ Maintenance
HRF2 PC 2 Swap
Pressurizing bladder of tank БВ1 Rodnik in Progress 436 (SM aft)
TIMER. Finishing taking video of experiment run and final steps
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeters – prep and initialization
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Retraction from JPM Side in Manal Mode
JEM Airlock Depressurization
Photo TV Camera Setup
MATRYOSHKA-R. Photographing experiment run
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons Hardware Handover
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handing over Bubble dosimeters to US side
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons
Around the World in 90 Minutes Photography Event
MATRYOSHKA-R. Bubble dosimeters initialization and placing for exposure
Konstanta-2. Removing cartridge from ТБУ-В and placing on panel for 1 hour for warming up
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
Lighting Effects Visual Performance Tests GLA Setting  – Subject
Glacier Battery Remove
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
Unloading US high-priority cargo from Progress 437 (DC1); IMS updates
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
KONSTANTA-2. Preparing and performing run 2/Tagup with specialists
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
Armband Activity Monitor Setup
PAO Preparation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
ENERGY Water Sample
SpX-12 Debrief
Energy PFS Setup
IMS Update
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygeine Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Questionnaire
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Battery Remove and Replace
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Initiate
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill Part 3
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Waste Water Bag (WWB) Changeout
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test
JEM Airlock Vent
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Unloading US high-priority cargo from Progress 437 (DC1); IMS updates
JEM Airlock Vent Confirmation
HMS Tonometry Test Setup
HMS Tonometry Test Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
Assessing potential increase of air circulation rate in SM working compartment big diameter
HMS Tonometry Test Subject
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
HMS Tonometry Test Stow
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Questionnaire
Portable PFS Conclude
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval Insertion Operations
Review Emergency OBT Simulator Functionality

Completed Task List Activities

MPCC Hardware Gather [GMT 294]
Wanted Poster – LS1 Hard Drives [GMT 294]
KTO Replace [GMT 294]
SAFER Checkout [GMT 295]
85-ft Safety Tether Inspection [GMT 295]
MBSU Stow [GMT 295]
N1/N2 Diffuser Questionnaire [GMT 295]
Veg 03 Pillow Watering [GMT 295] 

Ground Activities
All activities were performed unless otherwise noted.

NICER Survey [GMT 294]
AMS Survey [GMT 294]
MT Translate [GMT 294]
JEMAL Operations

