
Observation Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS) Sample Exchange:  Kononenko performed an OASIS sample exchange today, installing the third of four sample cartridges into the experiment hardware housed in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  OASIS studies the unique behavior of liquid crystals in microgravity, including their overall motion and the merging of crystal layers known as smectic islands. Liquid crystals are used for display screens in televisions and clocks, and they also occur in soaps and in cell membranes. The experiment allows detailed studies of the behavior of these structures, and how microgravity affects their unique ability to act like both a liquid and a solid crystal.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly recorded a Sleep Log entry today.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer 6 (NRCSD#6) Latch Inspection and Return to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock:  Kelly obtained photographs for verification of the Cubesat Quad Deployers secondary latch positions.  He then opened the Airlock outer hatch, extended the Slide Table out of the Airlock, and monitored the soft dock of the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform with the NRCSD attached to it to the slide table by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS).  Later, he retracted the slide table into the Airlock and closed the outer hatch.  Tomorrow, Kelly will pressurize the Airlock and perform a leak check prior to safing the door on Deployer #6, which contains two cubesats that were not able to be launched.
 
Plant Gravity Sensing 2 (PGS2) Run 1 Closeout:  Yui closed out Plant Gravity Sensing 2 Run1 today.  He removed culture dishes from the Photon Counting Units in the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Incubator Unit and stowed the PGS2 hardware.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Yui configured Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) suits 3003 and 3010 for loop scrubbing.  Samples containing 250 mL of the water were obtained after the loop scrub activity to determine the effectiveness of the filtering.  10 mL of this water sample was used for a conductivity test and the remaining water will be sent to the ground for chemical analysis.  Yui then reconfigured Loop Scrub hardware for Iodination of Ion Filters on both suits.  As part of a separate activity, Lindgren utilized the EMU Caution & Warning System (ECWS) Trainer to review operations of the EMU Enhanced Caution and Warning System and practiced EVA Cuff Checklist procedures.  Later in the day, Kelly and Lindgren worked together and configured EVA tools needed for upcoming ISS Upgrades EVA, scheduled for October 28th.
 
X2R14 Software Transition:   Flight Controllers continue to update Multiplexer/Demultiplexers (MDMs) with the latest software suite.  Today, they successfully loaded the LSYS3 R6 software onto the LAB-3 MDM and the N2SYS2 R4 software onto the Node 2-2 MDM.  X2R14 software transition activities will continue through Wednesday afternoon.
 
Possible Conjunction with Object # 39861 (SL-16 Debris):  Ground teams are evaluating tracking data for a possible conjunction with object # 39861. The time of closest approach is Wednesday, Wednesday, October 21 at 6:01 PM CDT. Concern level on the item is currently medium and teams are evaluating the potential for a Pre-Determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM).
 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fault:  Overnight, the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) faulted during a reprocess cycle.  The error code indicated an issue with the Fluids Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA).  This morning ground teams attempted to re-activate UPA but were not successful.  The UPA faulted to the same failure indications.  This FCPA has operated for about 1065 hours and is beyond the on-orbit Mean Time between Failure (MBTF) of 600 hours. Currently there are two spare FCPAs on-orbit with an additional spare arriving onboard Orbital  4.  Teams will continue to review the data and develop a forward plan.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Start EMU cooling loop scrub
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT)
Photo of NanoRacks Cubesat Deployer Latch
Crew Choice Video
Replacement of Temperature Sensor ТМ168-04 (TM-parameter Т264) in the SM
USOS Window Shutter Close
PROBOY. Document review and equipment gathering
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
Mating Temperature Sensor Connector ТМ168-04 (parameter Т264) in the SM
СОЖ Maintenance
Photography of Soyuz 718 [CA] window glass across plane IV and file downlink
JEMAL – Opening Outer Hatch and extending slide table to JEF side
Preparing for Photography of RS Windows
PGS2 – Closeout Ops
DAN. Experiment Ops
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) – Eye Procedure
PGS2 – Detachment of Meas Experiment Unit (MEU)
Photo/TV Battery Charge Initiation
EMU Cooling Loop Post Scrub Water Sample
EVA – Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-Board Training
EMU – Cooling Loop Maintenance – EMU Reconfig
OASIS – Sample Swap
JEMAL – Closing SAM
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) – Equipment Stowage
EMU – Long Dryout
VIRU. Battery Charge
CONTUR-2. Installation of master arm with adapter on panel 418
EMU – Conductivity Test
Installation of ТВМ-1Н SW
JEMAL – Closing SAM capture Mechanism to capture position
JEMAL – Retracting Slide Table from JEF
JEMAL – Closing Outer Hatch
JEMRMS RLT Laptop Deactivation
CONTUR-2. Experiment Session Ops
NAPOR-miniRSA. БЗУ-M Software Upgrade
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. HAM Radio Session with Students from St-Petersburg
EMU – Cooling Loop Maintenance – Deconfiguration
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
IMS Delta File Prep
EVA – Impact Shield Installation
EVA Tool Config
CONTUR-2. De-installation of master arm with adapter from panel 418
Battery Charger Battery Swap
Preventive Maintenance of FS1 Laptop (Cleaning and rebooting)
BRI Cleaning (Monthly)
Retractable Tether Inspection – Part 2
VIRU. Software Update
VIRU. Hardware Setup for Relaksatsiya Experiment
EHS – Labeling IV-TEPC Cable
Fundoscope Exam Setup
INTERACTION-2
Evening Work Prep
Fundoscope Setup and OCT Laptop Configuration
Fundoscope – Eye Examination
Crew Discretionary Conference
VIRU. Hardware parameter adjustment for Relaksatsiya Experiment
Fundoscope Removal and Stowage
EVA – Stow equipment used in conductivity test
VIRU. Earth Observation for  Relaksatsiya Experiment
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
URAGAN Observations and Photography

 
Completed Task List Items

PMM101 Photo D1
PMM101 Photo G_K

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

UHF activation in support of EMU Loop Scrubs
LAB-3 MDM transition to LSYS3 R6 Software
Node 2-2 MDM transition to N2SYS2 R4 Software

 
