
Payloads:
Food Physiology: The crew participated in a diet briefing with the ground experiment team.  The Integrated Impact of Diet on Human Immune Response, the Gut Microbiota, and Nutritional Status During Adaptation to Spaceflight (Food Physiology) experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight.
GITAI: Following the successful checkout and operations for the GITAI systems last week, this week the crew performed the steps necessary to remove the GITAI hardware from the Nanoracks Airlock (NRAL).  The GITAI S1 Robotic Arm Tech Demo (NanoRacks-GITAI Robotic Arm) demonstrates the versatility and dexterity in microgravity of a robot designed by GITAI Japan Inc.  For the demonstration, the robot conducts common crew activities and tasks via supervised autonomy and teleoperations from the ground.  Robotic labor could reduce the cost of spacecraft operations and improve safety by taking on tasks that could expose crew members to hazardous risks.
HISUI (Hyperspectral Imager Suite): The crew exchanged the full Mission Data Recorder (MDR) data hard disk (HD) with a new data disk.  This is performed roughly every 80 days.  HISUI is an external investigation, and the MDR is the internal component of the investigation which is used to record and transfer data.  HISUI is a next generation spaceborne hyperspectral Earth imaging system. The objective of HISUI onboard the International Space Station (ISS) is to obtain the data necessary to begin a full-scale practical application development for hyperspectral remote sensing through manufacturing, and the inflight performance verification of a hyperspectral imager onboard ISS.
Toilet: The crew reviewed the Big Picture Words, inspected the cover on the Toilet Conductivity Sensor inlet and outlet for any pretreated urine leaks, and then filled out a questionnaire.  The Toilet System is an Exploration Tech Demo that has evolved into a permanent USOS system.  The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS).  The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for USOS for up to 90-crew-days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent WHC/Toilet operations.
Systems: 
KCU-2 Cable Connection and Checkout:  Yesterday, the crew performed troubleshooting steps on the JSL data cable W3034 and P5B connector. The crew successfully replaced pin 6 and re-seated pin 5. Today, the crew installed the cable successfully and the ground performed a series of checkouts. The checkouts have gone well, and teams are considering the troubleshooting a success.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Support
Video Distribution Subsystem (VDS) External High Definition Camera (EHDC) survey of Crew-2 before undock
Enable the JSL 1 Port in KCU 2
Ku Comm Unit Real Time Flow Ping
CASA Caution & Warning Config

