10-20-2010October 20, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/20/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       At wake-up, FE-1 Kaleri conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also at day’s begin, FE-5 Yurchikhin terminated his 9th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  FE-3 Kelly underwent the periodic 30-min US PHS (Periodic Health Status)/Without Blood Labs exam, assisted by CDR Wheelock as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Doug later logged the data and stowed the equipment.  A subjective evaluation was part of the test.    [The assessment used the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data were then logged on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) and the hardware stowed.  The PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.]  In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Doug Wheelock performed the 5th onboard science session with the ESA PASSAGES experiment, after setting up the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) to cover the activities, operating the experiment from the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop.  Scott Kelly & Shannon Walker also served as subjects for subsequent science runs.     [After installing the experiment equipment (NeuroSpat light shield, trackball) on the MPL (Multipurpose Laptop) in front of the EPM, Wheels, Scott & Shannon each conducted a session of the science data collection as subjects.  FE-6 then stowed the equipment.  For downlinking the data, Shannon inserted the PASSAGES PCMCIA (Portable Computer Memory Card International Adapter) memory card into the EPM laptop and afterwards reconnected its power cable to its original EDR (European Drawer Rack) laptop.  The PCMCIA was placed in the PASSAGES kit, which was then put back in the NeuroSpat kit.  PASSAGES is designed to test how astronauts interpret visual information in weightlessness: it aims at studying the effects of micro-G on the use of the ‘Eye-Height’ strategy for estimating allowed actions in an environment, and whether this could possibly decrease after a long exposure to weightlessness.]  While setting up the PASSAGES experiment, Wheelock replaced a missing latch on the frame of the NeuroSpat light shield.  Later, the CDR used the G1 camcorder to shoot a video tour of the A/L (U.S. Airlock) interior for instructional use by the upcoming ULF5/STS-133 crew.     [Recommended focus areas were emergency equipment, general stowage philosophy in A/L & ISS, tool configurations, staging bag with fish stringers hook inventory, EVA ammonia decontamination kit, spacesuit accessories, etc.]  FE-6 Walker completed Part 3 of the periodic personal acoustic measurement protocol by downloading the recorded dosimeter data from yesterday & Monday and stowing the instruments.      [Acoustic data are taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.]  At ~8:10am EDT, the E25 crew held their first joint fire drill/OBT (on-board training), a mandatory periodic 70-min exercise (including crew review and subsequent 15-min ground debrief conference) to practice initial crew actions in response to an onboard fire.      [Primary goal of this Russian-led interactive exercise is to maintain crew skills in responding to a fire and to provide the station residents with the most realistic emergency training possible.  The drill is always conducted with the support of all MCCs (TsUP-Moscow, TsUP-Kazakhstan, MCC-Houston, COL-CC, SSIPC/Tsukuba) in close coordination.  It should be performed every 2.5 months, but not later than 1 month prior to end of Increment.  OBT objectives are to (a) practice fire response procedures (FRPs) and all incorporated actions for the case of a software-detected fire to locate, extinguish, and verify extinguishing attempts; (b) browse through RS laptop and the Signal-VM fire detection system displays as well as the automated software (algorithms) response to the fire event; (c) practice crew communication necessary to perform emergency FRPs;  (d) ensure familiarization with support equipment (CSA-CP compound specific analyzer-combustion products, PBAs portable breathing assemblies, PFE/OSP-4 portable fire extinguishers, and IPK-1M gas masks to be used for fire suppression).  These exercises do not actually use any fire equipment but simulate such actions with comm channels, PBAs, CSA-CP and laptop displays to the maximum extent possible.  The Emergency Procedures OBT concluded with a 15-min. debrief with Russian/U.S. ground specialists at ~10:05am via S-band.]  Preparatory to Progress M-05M/37P undocking on 10/26, Alex Kaleri worked on the panel of 37P’s SrPK air supply tankage system, closing valves and removing two pressure regulators (KR1, KR2), which he had inspected on 10/14.  Kaleri & Skripochka updated RODF (Russian Operations Data File) documents and conducted an extensive review of all applicable procedures documents.      [Using the IMS (Inventory management System), Alex & Oleg checked RODFs for number of copies, last modified date, issue number, location, physical condition and state of the covers, plus presence of index tags to facilitate searching.]  Wheelock, Kelly & Walker had ~60 min set aside for two reviews of preparatory material for upcoming conference discussions with ground specialists on (1) ULF5 delivery transfers and (2) the two ULF5 EVAs.  In the A/L, Wheels terminated the second round of EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) battery recharging in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly).  Later, Doug made preparations for the regular “bakeout” regeneration of EVA METOX (Extravehicular Activity Metal Oxide) canisters for CO2 (carbon dioxide) removal.  In the DC-1 & MRM2 FE-5 Yurchikhin worked on the Russian Orlan-MK spacesuits (#4, #5, #6), performing fit checks on their helmets for a U.S. EHIP (EMU Helmet Interchangeable Portable) light/TV assembly (#1006) brought over from the USOS (US Segment) by Scott Kelly.     [Russia has developed various spacers of different widths to give a tighter fit.  Scott showed Fyodor how to install the EHIP and took final configuration photography for confirmation as his time allowed.]  In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Shannon continued her support of the JAXA experiment HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions).  The current experiment will run until 10/22 (Friday).      [After retrieving 5 KFTs (Kennedy Fixation Tubes) from MELFI 2 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 2) Dewar 3/Tray B/ Sect. 3,4 and conducting a leak check of the Glutaraldehyde Paraformaldehyde fixative KFTs, Shannon detached 2 MEUs B (Measurement Experiment Units B) each from the CBEF IU 1G (Cell Biology Experiment Facility Incubator Unit for 1G) and IU Micro-G, fixated the samples and returned the KFTs with the samples to MELFI for storage at +2 degC.]  Other activities completed by FE-6 Walker included –  Completing the periodic status check & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5) payload in the Lab,Starting another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later  [this was the 34th session with the GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware],Performing the regular (no-EarthKAM) camera setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) with Sample 8, done one, three and five days after initializing,Going through a CBT (computer-based training) session for the new 24S-delivered HMS (Health Maintenance System) Tonometry hardware & procedures, to be used to assess the health of the crew’s eyes, andClosing the protective shutters of the Lab, Node-3/Cupola & Kibo windows for the ISS reboost at 3:41pm EDT.  Working in the COL to prepare for tomorrow’s scheduled move of the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) from COL (loc. F2) to the U.S. Lab (S2), Doug Wheelock first reconfigured the RFCA (Rack Flow Control Assembly) from LTL (Low Temperature Loop) operation to MTL (Moderate TL).     [The activity required rotation of the AV-3 (Avionics Rack 3) at Lab D2 down and later return it to its “upright” position.]  Next, Wheels stowed the MSG video equipment with its two monitors & touchpad plus the MLC (MSG Laptop Computer) with associated cabling, and then verified that the facility is ready for transfer to the Lab.    Yurchikhin continued with transfer & stowage of trash & excessed equipment on Progress 37P for disposal, while updating the IMS (Inventory Management System) with changes made.  Afterwards, FE-5 downlinked the usual UKL “Loading Complete” report to TsUP-Moscow.  Fyodor also started and later verified operation of the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM (Service Module) for taking structural dynamics data during the 39P reboost at 3:41pm.  Afterwards, the measurement data were downlinked to the ground.     [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]  Servicing the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge, Scott Kelly removed the desiccants intended to prevent internal condensation moisture, then propped the door open for a 24h dry-out.    [MERLIN is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.]  Oleg performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Skripochka & Kelly spent ~30 min checking out and familiarizing themselves with the CMRS (Crew Medical Restraint System).      [The board-like CMRS allows strapping down a patient on the board with a harness for medical attention by the CMO (Crew Medical Officer) who is also provided with restraints around the device.  CMRS can be secured to the ISS structure within two minutes to provide a patient restraint surface for performing emergency medical procedures, such as during ACLS (advanced cardiac life support).  It can also be used to transport a patient between the station and the Orbiter middeck.  It isolates the crew and equipment electrically during defibrillations and pacing electrical discharges, accommodates the patient in the supine zero-G positions, provides cervical spine stabilization and can also restrain two CMOs at the same time during their delivery of medical care.]  Afterwards, Oleg & Scott also checked out & familiarized themselves with the HMS RSP (Health Maintenance System Respiratory Support Pack), using RSP #1004 for the purpose, then stowing it in a drawer in the Lab.   The three 24S crewmembers, Kaleri, Skripochka & Kelly, again had an hour each set aside for crew onboard orientation.    [During the first two weeks after their arrival, a new ISS crew will have 1 hour a day (or more if needed) to adjust to living in space.]  Alex Kaleri set up the video camcorder in Node-1, mounting it in fixed position to view the subsequent workout by Fyodor, Oleg & himself on the TVIS treadmill for ground inspection.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-3, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  Reboost:   A one-burn reboost of ISS is scheduled later today at 3:41pm EDT using the Progress 39P DPO rendezvous & docking thrusters.  Planned burn duration: 228.7 sec; delta-V: 0.55 m/s.    CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Matavai Bay, Tahiti (HMS Beagle site.  Near nadir pass.  Looking on the north coast of Tahiti, the largest island, for Matavai Bay.  Darwin stopped here in November 1835 near the present capital city, Papeete.  In Darwin's words: " …we landed to enjoy all the delights of the first impressions produced by a new country …  Crowds of men, women & children were collected on the memorable point Venus ready to receive us…" [this was the site where Captain Cook in HMS Endeavour observed the transit of Venus on 3 June1769].  Darwin climbed a narrow river gorge heading towards the central peak of the island, remarking "These precipices must have been some thousand feet high; the whole formed a mountain gorge far more magnificent than anything I had ever beheld."), South Desolation Point, S Chile (HMS Beagle site.  Looking right of track.  The target lies among numerous islands south of the mainland.  Darwin’s journal entry June 10, 1834:  “….The western coast generally consists of low, rounded, quite barren hills of granite and greenstone.  Sir J. Narborough called one part South Desolation, because it is ‘so desolate a land to behold:’  and well indeed might he say so.  Outside the main islands, there are numberless scattered rocks on which the long swell of the open ocean incessantly rages… and a little farther northward there are so many breakers that the sea is called the Milky Way.  One sight of such a coast is enough to make a landsman dream for a week about shipwrecks…”), and Woollya Cove, Chile (HMS Beagle site.  Looking right of track on the far side of Tierra del Fuego as seen from track.  Visual cues are first the wide spit of land of Tierra del Fuego itself, then the narrow strip of water known as the Beagle Channel which divides Argentina [Tierra del Fuego] from Chile [islands south of the channel}.  The target is the waterway between major islands on the south side of the channel. Darwin and Captain Fitzroy of HMS Beagle were disappointed to find that the mission station set up here some years earlier had been abandoned).  