
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) / Light Microscopy Module (LMM) / Biophysics-4:  Following an overall successful conclusion of the Biophysics-4 experiment run, the Biophysics-4 plate was removed from the LMM and stowed.  The Biophysics-4 experiment contained proteins with both a fast and slow evolutionary period, which were observed by the ground teams.  Proteins are important biological molecules that can be crystallized to provide better views of their structure, which helps scientists understand how they work. Proteins crystallized in microgravity are often higher in quality than those grown on Earth. The Effect of Macromolecular Transport on Microgravity Protein Crystallization (LMM Biophysics 4) studies why this is the case, examining the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity. 
Meteor Troubleshooting:  As a continuation of the Meteor troubleshooting, the crew opened the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF), replaced the faulty inverter, and configured the diffraction grating to support operations.  The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument used to observe meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. The study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) DC/DC converter unit 2 (DCU2) and Video Compression And Recording Unit 2 (VRU2) R&R:  Today the crew performed the MSPR DCU2 Cable connection and Closeout. They also replaced the MSPR VRU with an upgraded VRU2 unit.  The MSPR is a multipurpose payload rack system used in the JEM. The MSPR has two workspaces and a work table that can be used for wide fields of space environment utilization including science and educational missions. 
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM) Set Up: Today the 50mm camera lens was exchanged for an 85mm camera lens for the on-going EarthKAM mission 64.  EarthKAM is expected to continue this mission through Tuesday, October 30.  As of today, over 20,000 students from 37 countries are participating and 2,069 images have been downlinked.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world. 
Crew Quarters (CQ) Clean:  A USOS crewmember cleaned the Deck CQ today.  During this activity, the crew cleaned behind panels, intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors as required.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


CQ deactivation and activation in support of cleaning

Two-Day Look Ahead:
Thursday, 10/25:
Payloads:


RYUTAI Microgravity Measurement Apparatus (MMA) Cable Connection
MELFI spare EU stow
Veg-03G experiment initiation

Systems: 

HTV Cargo Operations
Overhead CQ Cleaning
Photo Survey of Port Solar Array

Friday, 10/26:
Payloads:


BCAT camera activity
Food acceptability
Echo External Hard Disk connection to SSC 11
MSPR checkout
Team Task Switching
Wireless Compose reconfiguration

Systems: 

EMU 3004 and 3006 Loop Scrub
Periodic Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurements

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Delta file Preparation
Making a documentary about life onboard the ISS
R PAO event report preparation
Uragan. Observations and photo (Task list)
ECON-M. Observations and photo (Task list)
Recharging Samsung tablet in 55S
Визуальный осмотр и контроль течи с помощью американского течеискателя ULD в БО ТПК №739. ДнаЗ в с/св
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
EveryWear Medical Module Functionality Test
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Preparation for the Experiment.
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) DCU  R&R Part2
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Detent Plate Flip
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment Ops on БД-2 Treadmill (MO-3 Test in Passive Mode).
Meteor Hardware Gather
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) VRU2 R&R
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Hygiene Procedures.
Lighting Effects Light Meter Setup
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Preparation and Configuration Setup for Remote RS Laptop on USOS.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Testing RS Remote Laptop with КЦП1 and КЦП2.
Tear Down of Remote RS Laptop Setup.
Preparing for Troubleshooting FGB Power Supply System and СУБК devices.
POTOK Air Decontamination Unit R&R in SM.
56S CMS Equipment Restow
Meteor Hardware Troubleshooting
Lighting Effects Light Meter Readings
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Deck Cleaning
СОЖ Maintenance
Charging of ESA Power Bank
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Open
Lighting Effects Light Meter Stow
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
URISYS Hardware Setup
LMM Biophysics Plate Removal
EarthKAM Node 1 Lens Change-Russian
Evening Preparation Work
Recorded Greeting Request
Fluids Integrated Rack Doors Close
Countermeasures System (CMS) Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Kit Consolidate
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record

 