
Payloads:
Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones): The crew located and marked measurement points on the body, performed an experiment session with the Myotones device, and performed the Myotones ultrasound scans.  Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g. muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth, as well as for future space missions.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The crew prepared for the science campaign by connecting the PK-4 chamber to a neon gas supply and configuring the video system.  Plasma Krystall-4 (PK-4) is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas:  low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles.  The main feature of the PK-4 facility (in comparison with its predecessors onboard the ISS, such as PK-3 and PK-3+) is a new concept of its discharge chamber. Application of a combined discharge that consists of a direct current discharge, inductive HF discharge and capacitive HF discharge allows varying the topology of studied plasma-dust formations in a wide range.
Repository: The crew collected blood and urine samples in support of the Repository investigation.  Repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.  This investigation archives biosamples for use as a resource for future space flight related research.
Standard Measures: The crew collected blood samples in support of the Standard Measures investigation.  The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.  These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Toilet: The crew verified adequate pretreat dosing from the Dose Pump, inspected the cover on the Toilet Conductivity Sensor inlet and outlet for any pretreated urine leaks, and then filled out a questionnaire.  The Toilet System is an Exploration Tech Demo that has evolved into a permanent USOS system.  The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS).  The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for USOS for up to 90-crew-days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent WHC/Toilet operations.
Systems: 
JSL 20-Port Switch Install: Today, the crew installed the Node 3 JSL 20-Port Switch in place of the previous 16-Port switch. This upgrade was completed to accommodate JSL connectivity for additional wired devices in the wake of the JSL v14 upgrades. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) / Insert Filter (IF) R&R: Today, the crew completed routine maintenance to R&R the UR/IF. Following the R&R, the crew cleaned the WHC power supply grilles, reactivated WHC, and performed functionality test.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Mobile Transporter (MT) Pre-Translation Check Out and Survey
Mobile Transporter (MT) Translation
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Survey of Crew Dragon
Photovoltaic Controller Unit (PVCU) R6 P4 Patch Load

