
57 Progress (P) Launch Status:  57P successfully launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome today at 2:09am CDT.  The spacecraft proceeded with a nominal 4 orbit rendezvous with ISS and docked to the DC-1 docking port at 8:08am CDT.  The Progress is delivering more than 2987 lbs of cargo to the ISS.
Orbital (Orb)-3 Cygnus Launch Anomaly:  Yesterday, the Orbital Antares Rocket experienced a catastrophic failure soon after launch. Orbital Sciences is leading the mishap investigation with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Mid-Atlantic Regional Spaceport (MARS), and assistance from NASA to determine the cause of the failure. No injuries were reported. ISS ground teams are assessing the impacts due to the loss of cargo on Orb-3 and how future vehicle manifests will be affected. On-orbit crew timelines are also being updated to backfill the time slated for Orb-3 related operations.
Skin-B: Gerst conducted a Skin-B data collection using the Tewameter probe to measure the skin barrier function; the Visioscan Camera to measure skin surface topography; and the Corneometer probe to measure skin hydration. The Skin-B experiment will improve understanding of skin aging, which is slow on Earth but very much accelerated in space. This will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general. The data could help in determining impact for astronauts on future missions to the Moon and Mars where environmental conditions are more challenging.
Biological Rhythms 48 hour:  Gerst completed the second and final 24 hour measurement, removed the Digital Walk Holter electrocardiogram (ECG) and Actiwatch Spectrum equipment from his body and copied the Digital Walk Holter ECG data to Medical Laptop. The objective of this study is to examine the accurate circadian variation of cardiac autonomic function by space flight. The crew will wear an Actiwatch for 96-hour and an electrocardiograph (ECG) for 48-hour.  The crew conducts two In-flight data collects. 
Blood Pressure (BP) Reg (Regulation):  Wiseman set up the BP Reg hardware and then completed his third BP Reg data collection session. After completing the investigation, the BP Reg hardware was stowed.  This investigation tests the effectiveness of an in-flight manipulation of arterial BP as an indicator of post-flight response to a brief stand test, since space flight negatively impacts the regulation of BP on return to upright posture on earth. A Leg Cuff test induces a brief drop in BP following the release of a short obstruction of blood flow to the legs. The change in BP from pre-flight to in-flight will be used to predict those astronauts who might be susceptible to experience the greatest drop in BP in the post-flight stand test. A second objective of this investigation is to determine whether cardiac output calculated from the analysis of the finger blood pressure waveform provides an accurate estimate both pre-flight and in-flight by comparison with a rebreathing method.
Nanoracks Module 29:  Wiseman retrieved a Module 29 micro-plate from MELFI and then utilized the Plate Reader to perform 2 scans of the micro-plate.  Once scans were completed, Wiseman moved the USB drives to the Nanoracks Platform-2 in the JEM so the ground can retrieve the data.  NanoRacks-Fluorescent Polarization in Microgravity (NanoRacks-Micro-gRx) utilizes the on-orbit Plate Reader facility to validate its functionality in three of its five modes of operation in order to examine the effect of microgravity on fluorescent polarization (FP) for a fluorophore in solution, to validate the UV-Visible mode by using three different absorbance wavelengths in serially diluted liquids, and to validate the fluorescence intensity by using serial dilutions of two different fluorophores. This investigation also serves as part of the process of validating and establishing a workflow for the Plate Reader facility. This investigation lays the ground work for opening the door to performing well-based life science experiments on the ISS and to developing new capillary-based plate technology that may lead to new treatments for disease.
SpinSat:  Gerst relocated SpinSat from the JEM to the Node 2 forward endcone, where it will remain in its foam box until SpinSat deployment.  The objective of the Special Purpose Inexpensive Satellite (SpinSat) experiment is to fly a 22-inch diameter spherical satellite equipped with an array of electrically-controlled solid propellant thrusters. It is intended to be a tumbling satellite having a mass of approximately 50 kg with a single axis momentum wheel and multiple micro-thrusters on the sphere’s surface. For its initial space flight demonstration, SpinSat aims to test movement and positioning of small satellite in space using new technology micro-thrusters.
DEvice for the study of Critical LIquids and Crystallization (DECLIC): Wiseman exchanged the existing DECLIC data cables with the spare set of cables as part of a troubleshooting effort to restore capability. Previous attempts to initialize the system caused errors during the boot sequence and DECLIC went into safe mode.   A future checkout of the DECLIC hardware and the High Temperature Insert (HTI) – Reflight (R) experiment will be scheduled.   DECLIC HTI-R studies water near its critical point, the point beyond which water loses its distinction between liquid and vapor and begins to behave as a dense gas. Salt tends to precipitate out from water at temperatures and pressures beyond its critical point. Understanding this behavior will assist designers in building extended-life and low-maintenance supercritical water oxidation (SCWO) reactors that will provide for more environmentally friendly waste management systems and reduce operating costs of power plants that use supercritical water for its working fluid.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 Return to Service:  Following the replacement of the Fan Pump Separator (FPS) on EMU suit 3011 earlier this year, Wilmore successfully tested the FPS components by performing a visual water leakage inspection and implemented a structural gas leakage test at the maximum operating suit pressure. In addition, he conducted a long-duration leak check on the suit.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Morning Inspection. Laptop RS1(2) Reboot & RSS2 Reboot
IMMUNO. Saliva Sample, stress test, questionnaire data entry, Test-Tube Blood Collection (finger), Blood Sample Processing.
ISS HAM RADIO Power Off
FMK Deployment Ops
High Pressure Oxygen Bypass Configuration
Conference of Search and Rescue (ГПСК) specialists with returning ТК 713 crew
EMU: FPS nut servicing
SKNB – Experiment Ops
Vozdukh Deactivation
EMU Return To Service (RTS)
VIRTUAL. Experiment Ops
Blood Pressure (BP) – Experiment Ops
ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position Verification
BLR48 – Data Saving
SPINSAT – Hardware Relocation
MPEG2 Multicast Test via Ku-band (Activation/Deactivation of TV data and MPEG2 Multicast controls)
CWQMK Water Sample Analysis
ARIL. ТБУ-В No. 02 thermostat Setup for the Experiment
OBSTANOVKA. Download of Obstanovka P/L Data from БСПН (Payload Server) to RSS1 Laptop (start)
BIOEMULSIYA. Cryogem-03 Thermostat Setup for the Experiment
Surface samples from FGB equipment and structures
ТКГ 424 Docking to DC1
Progress 424 Docking to DC1
Closing CP SSC Laptop Applications and Downlink of MPEG2 Multicast via OCA
Module-29 – sample removal
EMU PWR Degassing
Blood Pressure (BP) – Equipment Stowage
Vozdukh Atmosphere Purification System [СОА] Activation
PLATE – Scanning
OBSTANOVKA. Download of Obstanovka P/L Data from БСПН (Payload Server) to RSS1 Laptop (terminate)
IMS Delta File Prep
Grab Sample Container (GSC) Sampling Operations
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) High Pressure Nominal Configuration

Completed Task List Items

EML finalization parts 4,5
AMO Plan Input
AMO TOCA SSC Analysis
DECLIC cable Exchange

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


System commanding associated with 57P Docking
UHF Activation/Deactivation in support of EMU 3011 Return to Service 

