10-24-2010October 24, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/24/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday – Crew rest day.   Ahead: Week 5 of Increment 25     >>>>Today 50 years ago (1960), a Yangel R-16 ICBM exploded violently at its Baikonur Cosmodrome launch pad, killing about 120 military personnel, engineers and technicians, among them Strategic Rocket Forces Marshall Mitrofan Nedelin after whom the disaster is named today.<<<<  At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Fyodor again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-3 Kelly closed out the 24-hr urine collections for his first onboard session with the new routine (modified from the past NUTRITION w/Repository protocol), for storage in a 3x5 mesh bag in MELFI 1 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 1), Dewar 1, Tray B, Sect. 3/4.      [The operational products for Blood & Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]  FE-6 Walker powered on the P/L MPC (Payload Multi-Protocol Converter) and started downlink flow of recent recordings via the HRDL (High Rate Data Link) system.  Later, she turned MPC off again.  Afterwards, Shannon conducted the periodic camera setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) with Sample 8, done one, three and five days after initializing.  Shortly before sleeptime, Shannon will conclude her 4th ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity (~3:55pm EDT).  Data download from all devices to the HRF (Human Research Function) PC1 laptop will be scheduled later.     [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres/BP is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.]  FE-2 Skvortsov completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Oleg also checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.    An additional task for Oleg in the SM was a routine inspection of the SVO SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor hoses from the MFR Diaphragm Separator Filter to the BRPK Condensate Separation & Pumping Unit.  Before sleeptime, CDR Wheelock swaps the WRM (Water Recovery & Management) condensate tank from the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) waste water connection to the Lab condensate tank to collect condensate there.      [The WPA Waste water connection and the Lab Condensate tank QP15 and Tee joint share a common set of caps and plugs because only one is connected at any given time.]  At ~4:15am EDT, Alex Kaleri & Oleg Skripochka had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video.  CDR, FE-2, FE-3 & FE-5 were scheduled for their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Oleg at ~8:35am, Fyodor at ~10:00am, Scott at ~1:10pm, Wheels at ~3:25pm EDT.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-3) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  