
Payloads
SPECTRUM Plate Remove: The crew powered off the SPECTRUM facility, opened the SPECTRUM facility access door and removed and trashed the SPECTRUM-001 plant growth plates. The goal of the session was to check out the SPECTRUM facility capabilities with a plant growth plate inserted. Although some network difficulties were experienced, the SPECTRUM team was able to successfully check out the facility. Spectrum takes fluorescent images of biological specimens contained within a controlled environment. A high resolution, monochrome camera captures images of fluoresced proteins of plants within Petri plates. Ground crews control the growth lighting, CO2 levels, and ethylene levels within the Spectrum’s research chamber over a typical 12-day growth period while routinely capturing images and telemetering these images back to Earth.
Turbine-Ceramic Manufacturing (T-CMM) Module: The crew installed the T-CMM and related cables into its EXPRESS rack location and took photos of the installed hardware. Turbine CMM demonstrates manufacture of single-piece turbine blade/disk combinations (blisks) in microgravity for commercial use. Manufacturing blisks in space could produce parts with lower mass, lower residual stress, and higher strength than those made on Earth due to greatly reduced sedimentation of the solution in microgravity.
Systems
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Extended Maintenance: The crew replaced battery packs in all six deployed CSA-CPs and zero calibrate all units. The CSA-CPs provide real-time readings following a combustion event and subsequent clean-up efforts. The CSA-CP is also used for continuous monitoring of carbon monoxide levels in the ISS
Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device (SLAMMD): The crew set up the SLAMMD equipment and then conducted mass measurement runs for five cargo bags of varying mass and size. The use of SLAMMD is intended to provide an accurate means of determining the on-orbit mass of humans or cargo items.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEMRMS Handhold Exp Platform at SPB Retrieval
SPDM RRM3 Tech Demo

