
SpaceX-4 Departure Preparations:  The Crew performed final cargo loading today. Once loading was complete, they egressed Dragon, closed the hatch, and configured the Node 2 vestibule which included installation of the Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assemblies (CPAs).  SpaceX-4 unberth activities are scheduled to start tomorrow morning at ~7:00am with the Crew releasing Dragon at ~8:56am, utilizing the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS).
EarthRim:  Gerst set up a camera in Cupola for sequential auto photo shooting. Sequential shooting is executed for 50 minutes.  The Earth Rim Observation supports the Multi-mission Consolidated Equipment (MCE) investigation by providing further observation data to enhance the research outcome.
MICRO 8:  Gerst removed Micro-8 Group Activation Pack (GAPs) from the Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus (CGBA) and packed it for return on SpaceX-4.
Biological Research 48:  Gerst prepared Actiwatch Spectrums for data collection of Biorhythm 48 measurement by configuring two Actiwatches using Actiware Software and the Medical Laptop. The objective of this study is to examine the accurate circadian variation of cardiac autonomic function by space flight. The crew will wear an Actiwatch for 96 hours and an electrocardiograph (ECG) for 48 hours.  The crew conducts two In-flight data collects.
Circadian Rhythms:  Wiseman donned instrumentation to begin the 36 hour Circadian Rhythm experiment.  Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.

BIOME-SURVEY-QSTN2
KHROMATOMASS. Experiment
EARTH RIM – Preparing for the experiment
CPCG-HM MERLIN 4 & 5 – Status Check
Packing Double Coldbag (DCB) for Return on Dragon
ПрК-ATV Interface Leak Check
VIRTUAL. Experiment Ops
ТК 713 Kazbek Fit Check
ПрК-СУ Hatch Opening
Transfer fo MICRO8-CGBA5 from the ISS to Dragon
ATV-СУ Hatch Opening
VIZIR. СКП-И Hardware Installation
Installation of Quick Release Screw Clamps on SM Aft side
ATV Deactivation after EVA
Space Headaches Weekly Questionnaire
Saving observation data and photos
VIZIR. Experiment Ops
DRAGON. Transfer Ops
Orlan-MK Equipment Pre-pack for Stowage and Disposal after EVA
EVA Video Data Downlink from Glisser-M
Replacement of ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filters and Cleaning В1, B2 Fan Screens in MRM2
Dragon Egress
Terminate discharge of the 1st Orlan battery pack 825М3 and start discharging the 2nd battery pack
Connecting КЛ-211 mpeg2 encoder to Ethernet
Multicast TVS Test via Ku-band prior to ТГК 424 docking to ISS
Maintenance Activation of Spare Atmosphere Purification System Emergency Vacuum Valves
Dragon – Hatch Closure
БНП removal from SM [РО] and stowage
Dragon – Hatch Seal Ops
Thermolab – Instrumentation Ops for Circadian Rhythms
EVA Video Data Downlink from Glisser-M
IMS Delta File Prep
Space Headaches Weekly Questionnaire
Control Panel Assembly (CPA) Installation
BIOME – Sampling Preparation

Completed Task List Items

CMS ARED cylinder evacuation
WHC KTO Replace
Lab SSC printer replace
IMAX C500 camera checkout P2
PCS battery changeout

Ground Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.

Dragon communications path change from 1553 to RF (CUCU)
Node 2 preparation for demate [In Work] 

