
Payloads
ACE (Advanced Colloids Experiment) module photos:  The crew retrieved and took photos of ACE modules T11, TR-2, T12-2, T2-3.  This was done so the ground teams can assess the health of the science in these modules and plan future order of operations appropriately.  These ACE modules are used to study the assembly of 3D structures from colloids, nanoparticle haloing contribution to colloidal assembly, and other factors related to colloids and their interactions.  These investigations are carried out in the FIR/LMM (Fluids Integrated Rack/Light Microscopy Module).  The LMM is a modified commercial, highly flexible, state-of-the-art light imaging microscope facility with confocal and temperature control capabilities.
HXP item prep:  In preparation for the ExHAM#1 sample exchange scheduled for later this week, the crew gathered the appropriate hardware and reviewed the On-Board Training package (OBT).  Taking advantage of Kibo’s unique function of having both an airlock and a robotic arm on the ISS, the ExHAM (Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism) facility enables space experiments to be performed in the exposed space environment, by attachment to the Japanese Experiment Module Kibo’s Exposed Facility.
Plant Habitat-02 water fill:  The crew prepared the water refill bag and water reservoir, and took photos of various parts of the Plant Hab system.   This was performed in preparation for science operations, which are planned to begin later this week.  Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants.
Systems
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Filter Remove and Replace (R&R) with Fan Filter Cleaning: This morning the crew R&R’d the PWD’s Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) water filter. While they had access to this ORU, they also cleaned the exhaust fans outlets on the rear of the PWD. Both the fan cleaning and filter R&R are regularly scheduled preventative maintenance and are required to keep the PWD system functioning nominally.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Operations:  Today, the ISS crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water.  The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
Completed Task List Activities:

RS EVA tool gather
AC inverter secure
IFM rock catcher build
PWD filter R&R

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS SACU1 Surveys
MCA Zero Cal

