10-26-2010October 26, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/26/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   At wake-up, FE-2 Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Oleg again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted periodic routine maintenance in the SM (Service Module)’s ASU toilette facility, changing out replaceable parts with new components, such as a filter insert (F-V), the urine receptacle (MP), the pretreat container (E-K) with its hose and the DKiV pretreat & water dispenser.  Also replaced was the ASU’s air filter.  All old parts were trashed in Progress 37P, and the IMS (Inventory Management System) was updated.     [E-K contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H2SO4 (sulfuric acid), CrO3 (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple color), and H2O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed with water in the DKiV dispenser and used for toilet flushing.]  CDR Wheelock closed the protective window shutters of the US Lab, Node-3/Cupola & Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) prior to the SARJ (Solar Alpha Rotary Joint) array feathering before the DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) this morning at ~6:25am EDT.     [The Russian-controlled maneuver, with USOS (US Segment) support, went without a hitch and was successful.]  Afterwards, the CDR conducted the periodic EHS TOCA (Environmental Health System Total Organic Carbon Analyzer analysis of potable water directly from the WRS WPA (Water Recovery System Water Processor Assembly).  Wheelock also completed a session with the U.S. VIS (Visual Acuity) testing program, filling out an Eye Questionnaire and downloading it on a laptop for ground access.  Later, Doug continued EVA preparations in the Airlock (A/L) for the STS-133/ULF5 spacewalks, today consolidating PWRs (Payload Water Reservoirs) by transferring the contents of PWR #1015 to #1007, then “de-gassing” PWRs #1003, #1007 & #1025 for STS-124 and returning them to stowage.     [“De-gassing” = removing air bubbles from the PWR water that will be used to refill the EMU water tanks, by centripetal force, i.e., swinging to produce temporary “artificial gravity”.]  Wheels also completed the monthly maintenance of the T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill, checking its components, pin alignment, rack centering and the snubber jam nut witness marks.      [Witness marks (12 total) are applied to the X-, Y- & Z-axis jam nuts on each (of four) snubber arm; their inspection serves to determine to what degree and which jam nuts are backing off.]  The CDR swapped the failed ELC6 (EXPRESS Rack 6 Laptop Computer) with a spare A31p laptop after removing the hard drive from the failed ELC (#1095) and installing it in the new A31p (#1076), which he then activated.   FE-1 Kaleri conducted a 50-min audit/inventory checking on the availability of general purpose tools & equipment required for upcoming R&R (removal & replacement) work on the Russian BOA Vozdukh carbon dioxide removal unit.  After completing recharge of its battery, Kaleri installed the hardware of the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment at SM window #1 and then used it to observe & measure the high-rate interaction spectra of the Earth’s ionosphere.     [Using the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #1, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]  FE-2 Skripochka configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his first, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  Alex Kaleri took documentary photography.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic & physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]  In preparation of upcoming replacement of the BTA heat exchanger/evaporator of the Russian SKV2 air conditioner, Skripochka & FE-5 Yurchikhin set up and then executed the drainage of the SKV2’s coolant, Khladon (Freon-218), a lengthy and involved procedure.  Oleg Skripochka also –  Performed the periodic inspection of the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor’s sediment trap insert (VU) in the SM  [the Russian SRVK-2M converts collected condensate into drinking water and dispenses the reclaimed potable water],Completed the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on Eye Treatment     [the HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures]Conducted periodic (monthly) maintenance on the deactivated Russian IK0501 GA (Gas Analyzer) of the SOGS Pressure Control & Atmospheric Monitoring System behind SM panel 449 by replacing its CO2 filter assembly (BF) with a new unit from FGB stowage (done last: 8/3)  [IK0501 is an automated system for measuring CO2, O2, and H2O in the air, as well as the flow rate of the gas being analyzed],Completed a photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining NIKON D3 photos with Nikkor 80-200 mm lens and the SONY HD video camcorder on oceanic water blooms in the central-eastern Atlantic areas, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop,Did the regular weekly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization)   [this is primarily an in section of the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices) in contingency configuration, SLD cables for fraying and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time & date values] andPerformed his first data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file    [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]  Sasha Kaleri completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  After configuring the Lab video camcorder for live monitoring of his activities on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), FE-3 Kelly set up an experiment run on the FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility) with a new fuel reservoir, ground-assisted by POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center/Huntsville).     [Steps included powering down the rack, opening the upper & lower rack doors and the front-end cap plus temporarily stowing the fuel supply bypass QD (quick disconnect).  This was followed by removal of two fuel reservoirs of the MDCA (Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus) and their replacement with new reservoirs, one (#2008) containing Methanol as fuel in loc 1, the other (#2011) with Heptane in loc. 2, re-closing the facility, configuring valve positions and switching two CIR & EPCU control unit power switches to On for subsequent ground commanding via RPC (Remote Power Controller).  Afterwards, Scott closed the front-end cap and the lower/upper doors.  Activities were photo documented.]   Fyodor Yurchikhin worked with Oleg on the Khladon (Freon-218) venting from the SKV2 air conditioner (see above).  Afterwards, FE-5 undertook the periodic transfer of condensate water to an RS (Russian Segment) EDV container for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen & (waste) hydrogen, filling the designated KOV (condensate water) EDV container from Progress 39P Rodnik tank BV2.  When filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.      [The ~40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the Elektron’s BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.]  Fyodor also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Later, Yurchikhin took the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, spending 90 min on the TVIS treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.     [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmember rests for 5 min., then works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h for 2 min, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h for 1 min, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace to 3.5 km/h].  FE-6 Walker continued her in-depth review of the new POC DOUG (Portable Onboard Computers Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) software for the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) robotics activities during STS-133/ULF5.  In the JAXA JPM, Walker prepared the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) for experiment work by wiping out the insides of the CBEF IUs (Incubator Units) for Micro-G and 1G, with its centrifuge, except for the Micro-G IU’s door rear side.  Later, Shannon set up & readied the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware, including MBS (Mixing Bag System), for her 4th session with the VO2max assessment, integrated with Thermolab, scheduled tomorrow.      [The experiment VO2max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% & 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]  Doug, Alex, Scott & Shannon joined up for a 2-hr review of the STSA-133/ULF docked timeline.  Later, at ~2:25pm, the crew tagged up with ground specialists to discuss timeline/flight plan specifics.  Before sleeptime, Oleg will set up the Russian MBI-12 payload and start his 2nd Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  At ~12:35pm, Wheels, Scott & Shannon supported a PAO TV event for ESA in Berlin/Germany, marking the 25th Anniversary of the STS-61A/D1 German Spacelab Mission.     [Assembled on the ground were STS-61A Space Shuttle Commander Hank Hartsfield; Chairman of the Aviation and Space Group in the  Bundestag & Member of Parliament Mr. Klaus-Peter Willsch, Minister for Economics and Technology, Mr. Rainer Bruederle; Federal Government Coordinator of German Aerospace Policy and Parliamentary State Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology, Member of Parliament Peter Hintze; Moderator Mr. Ulrich Bobinger; Members of the German Parliament; and guests.]  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, , FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3, FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  Correction:  Yesterday’s scheduled PanOptic eye test on Doug Wheelock, reported here, was actually deferred to some later time.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Perth, Australia (requested were overlapping mapping frames, taken right of track, of the southeastern urban-rural fringe of this metropolitan area.  CEO staffers are tracking land use and land cover change.  This capital city of Western Australia is located along the Swan River well right of track on the coast), Johannesburg, South Africa (Johannesburg lies in the middle of a 100-mile-long string of gold-mining cities, all right of track.  From orbit the cities appear mainly as numerous “mine dumps” of light-toned mine waste.  Shooting margins of the built-up areas), and NW Glaciers of N. Patagonian Glacier Field (photography of glaciers and icefields near the mountain peaks along the west side of the mountains was requested—trying overlapping frames of the mountain flanks and peaks, taken along track.  This approach should have captured many of the glaciers of interest).  