
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST):  The ISS crew began a BEST experiment 1 session.  The goal of experiment 1 is to identify bacteria directly from ISS surfaces through the swabbing and subsequent extraction of DNA from the swab using miniPCR.  The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
BioServe Protein Crystallography (BPC)-1:  In today’s phase 2 final operations session, the crew removed the BioServe Protein Crystallography samples from SABL, then observed and photographed the sample wells using the microscope.  Well-defined crystals were present in many of the observed wells.  BPC-1 seeks to demonstrate the feasibility of conducting protein crystal growth in real time onboard the ISS. Crewmembers add solutions to the hardware, observe the crystals that form, and adjust for follow-on experiments. This approach gives scientists the ability to optimize crystal growth in microgravity instead of waiting for samples to return and then launching them again.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) / Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) / Electric-Field Effects on Laminar Diffusion (E-FIELD) Flames Hardware Replacement:  Today the crew removed the negative power supply and installed the positive power supply in support of the continuing E-Field Flames part 2 investigation.  For E-Field Flames an electric field with voltages as high as 10,000 volts is established between the burner and a mesh electrode. The motion of the charged ions, which are naturally produced within the flame, are strongly affected by a high-voltage electric field. The resulting ion-driven wind can dramatically influence the stability and sooting behavior of the flame. Conducting the tests in microgravity allows for great simplifications in the analysis, enabling new understanding and the development of less polluting and more efficient combustion technology for use on Earth.
Loop Heat Pipe Radiator (LHPR):  The checkout of the external LHPR investigation was initiated via ground commanding this morning.  The LHPR, is an advanced two-phase heat transfer device that utilizes the evaporation and condensation of a working fluid to transfer heat, and the capillary force to circulate the fluid. This investigation demonstrates the heat transfer performance/functions under microgravity conditions using the LHPR experimental apparatus, which is grappled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS). This technology can be applied in the thermal control system of future satellites that generate large amounts of heat that could negatively affect satellite operations. 
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKam) Set Up: The crew set up the EarthKAM hardware in Node in preparation for the start of Mission 64.  As of today, over 19,000 students from 34 countries have signed up to participate.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicle (C2V2) Radio Frequency (RF) Demonstration:  Ground Teams are implementing their fourth and final on-orbit C2V2 demonstration while flying over the Electronic System Test Laboratory (ESTL). These demonstrations are intended to verify end-to-end functionality of all C2V2 capabilities following the Revision 2 (R2) Software transition, which occurred this past March.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


C2V2 Testing

Two-Day Look Ahead: 
Tuesday, 10/23:
Payloads:


JAXA/MSPR Replacement of DCU with DCU2
ESA/Wireless Compose Card Copy

Systems: 

EMU LLB Auto Cycle Terminate
HTV Cargo Ops

Wednesday, 10/24:
Payloads:


Lighting Effects
METEOR Hardware Troubleshooting
FIR/LMM/Biophysics-4 Plate Removal
JAXA/MSPR R&R (continuing)

Systems: 

Deck CQ Cleaning

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Record COP24 script
[ИПД] air sampling for ammonia in SM
ACME Chamber Insert Configuration
ACME MWA Prep
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sedimentation Camera Activities
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) Experiment
BioServe Protein Crystallography Microscope Phase 2 Final Operations
Checking БД-2 treadmill carriage position
CIR-CABLE-INSPECTION
Combustion Integrated Rack activities in support of ACME Hardware Replace
Earth Knowledge Applied to Middle schools (EarthKAM) Station Support Computer (SSC) 15 Relocation
EarthKAM Node 1 Setup and Activation-Russian
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA по r/g 0130
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan
IMS Delta File Prep
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
International Procedure Viewer Tablet Questionnaire
iPad Wireless Troubleshooting
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
KOSMOKARD. Preparation. 24-Hour ECG Recording (start)
Laptops RS2, RS3 Inspection and Cleaning (ФГБ1ПГО_4_426_1, 0.5 СТВ # 1166 (006615J))
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Microscope Reposition Preparation
On MCC GO RS1 laptop inspection and cleaning
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
Record UN Forum Script
Record VDE Summit Script
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
SM air sampling for CO using ИПД samplers
SM air sampling for FREON using АК-1М sampler
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
URAGAN Observations and Photography
Vehicle-to-Vehicle TORU Test with Docked Progress 439. Tagup with specialist
Visual inspection and leak check, using US leak detector ULD in the orbital compartment [БО] of Soyuz №739. Report to MCC during comm pass
Visual inspection and leak monitoring using US ULD Leak Detector in Soyuz 739 БО. Report to MCC
АК-1М air sampling in SM and FGB
СОЖ maintenance

 