10-23-2010October 23, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/23/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – crew rest day.  At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Fyodor again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-3 Kelly started the 24-hr collection of urine samples for the NUTRITION / Repository / Pro K protocol, his first onboard session with the new routine (modified from the past NUTRITION w/Repository protocol), for storage in a 3x5 mesh bag in MELFI 1 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 1), Dewar 1, Tray B, Sect. 3/4.     [The operational products for blood & urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]  The six station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  As part of the uborka house cleaning, the Russian crewmembers conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).  Later, Kaleri also performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.  At ~8:25am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  Working in Node-3, Wheelock disconnected the LTL QD (Low Temperature Loop Quick Disconnect of the AR CDRA (Atmosphere Revitalization Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly).  For her on-going 4th Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment, Shannon Walker observed the initial 10-min rest period (~7:41am EDT) before going about her business, swapping Makita batteries as required.  Midpoint for the entire ICV run was reached at about 3:35pm, after which the second 24h data collection period was started immediately before Presleep.       [The rest period involved relaxing & breathing normally for 10 minutes under quiet, restful conditions.  ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres/BP to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist & ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Shannon continued the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing were timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After approximately 24 hrs (today at ~3:35pm), the Cardiopres was temporarily doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).  The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.]  Shannon completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router & FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) laptops (the latter required to mitigate the problem of iPV and OSTPV not opening up procedures due to a memory leak in the “Tomcat” software).  After a period of no less than 10 min later, FE-6 also rebooted the two ISS network servers (SERVER1 & 2).  In the U.S. A/L (Airlock), Scott Kelly terminated the bake-out regeneration of the latest EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) METOX (Metal Oxide) canister for CO2 absorption.  Oleg Skripochka completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  At ~10:55am, Alex, Oleg & Fyodor supported a Russian PAO TV event, downlinking well-wishes and greetings to Rocket Festival RAKETAFEST 2010, taking place on 10/30 on the runway of the Central Frunze airfield in Khodynka city near Moscow for the purpose of promoting and popularizing rocket model building and rocket sport in Russia.  The festival is part of preparations for and celebration of the 50th anniversary of the flight of Yuri Gagarin.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-3) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Five -- Week 4).  2D NANO Template (JAXA):     2D NanoTemplate started on GMT190 and was completed on 10/15.  On 10/15, Wheelock took pictures of the samples.  Samples of 2D Nano Template have been retrieved from MELFI for observation and fixation.  They have been restowed in MELFI-2 Dewar-3 (+4C) for ULF5 return.  2DNT will generate a nano arrangement on SiC and mica substrates in peptide solution that will be used to create templates of electronic materials on Earth.   Future plans include continuation of 2D Nano Template 2 in Inc 27&28.  3D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     “Shannon: Thank you for all your efforts on the ALTEA-SHIELD relocation on 10/15!  Since then ALTEA-SHIELD has been measuring. One of the Silicon Detector Units went out-of-limit on 10/16, but the other five are collecting science data.”  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):     “Sample 8 was successfully initiated on 10/19.  Samples 6, 7 and 8 have been formulated to explore phase competition behavior.  Sample 7 contained the lowest colloid and highest polymer concentration, whereas sample 8 contains the highest colloid to lowest polymer ratio of the three samples.  Sample 8 exhibits the same phase separation arrest behavior as observed in the previous two samples except that it occurred even earlier.  The crystals formed earlier and are more abundant and phase separation length scale is smaller than the previous two samples.  This last sample confirms that the experiment length scale is not limited by the minimum couvette dimension. Thanks to exquisite work and dedication by Shannon Walker, the setup and lighting are optimal to reveal these processes.”  BIOLAB (ESA):    On 10/19, a BIOLAB Handling Mechanism (HM) force margin test was performed for all axes and directions.  The test showed that for the x-axis, the HM could be moved for lower forces than expected.  The incubator containment test was also performed, showing that the incubator is not leak-tight.  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    “Scott: Thanks for completing your first pill ingestion session.  Your weekly ingestions will be scheduled every Monday to align with Cady when she arrives.  The urine collections will be completed through data sharing with the Nutrition experiment.  Thanks for your participation.”  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):     “Scott, thank you for the CFE-2 ops on Tuesday!   We really appreciate you running this “extra science” run for our ICF1 vessel.   I hope we didn’t bore you to death when nothing happened.  You did well.  It was us.  This test was to try to understand the phenomena behind an anomaly observation we made during an earlier operation of ICF1, namely the migration of a bubble in the transfer tube.  Our theory was (is!) that bubble migration can be caused by thermal gradients induced when bubbles are compressed.  This could be important.  The test you performed was a controlled test to determine if this phenomena can indeed cause the migration.  But as you observed, the bubble did not move, so we’re down here scratching our heads to see if we can adjust the test, or come up with a new one to test.  Now we think it is because the compressed bubble wasn’t small enough, spanned the tube shutting down the flow mechanism.  If we get a ‘next time’ we will try to start with a smaller volume of gas so that hopefully the compressed bubble will be obviously smaller than the diameter of the transport tube.  Thanks again for your efforts!  Space experiments on ISS are like sporting events when your favorite team is playing—and they could lose.”  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    “Wheels: Great job with the CIR bottle replacement on GMT 281! After the MDCA Fuel Reservoirs are replaced, we plan to get back to performing test points.”  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    No report.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.  DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    “During week 04  we conducted seven solidifications at speeds between 4 and 0.5 microns/sec.  Six of them were successful and 1 unsuccessful due to an internal DECLIC problem.  We got about 35,000 images.”  DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.   DOSIS (Active Measure, ESA):     Science data acquisition with DOSTEL2 detector only.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA): (Kids in Space):   No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    No report. . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.  EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.  EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    Space Bottle has been wrapped with Kapton tape and moved to the airlock for ULF5 EVA on 10/14. This bottle will be exposed in space by ULF-5 shuttle EVA.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.  EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    No report.  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET-2 (JAXA):   “Facet 2 consists of 20 sessions total (10 sessions in Inc23&24, 10 sessions in Inc25&26).  All Facet 2 sessions ended with the 10/16 experiment.  We wish to express our gratitude to the astronauts, Flight Control Team and others involved who endeavored to execute this experiment.”   FERULATE (JAXA):    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     LMM/PACE was successful in the first test of 100x microscopy.  This is a significant event in opening the operation window for LMM operations.  The LMM/PACE team was able to focus the microscope clearly on the PACE Target.  This demonstrates the procedure for the crew to dispense the index matching oil and the ability of the software and commanding to control LMM to this very fine accuracy.  Higher magnification microscopy is a science requirement of the Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE) that is planned to start operations in 2012.  Testing will continue with PACE/ARIS at 63x and 100x to optimize the science objectives and characterize the LMM during various operational scenarios.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    A file with MVIS (Microgravity Vibration Insulation System) data was finally downlinked on 10/4.  This could not be done earlier due to problems with the FSL VMU (Video Management Unit).  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):   No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 1882 images have been taken to date.  HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):     “Shannon: We think highly of your immediate and accurate activities for the Hydro Tropi experiment.  Thank you very much from JAXA console, Bio team, and the operations team.   First HydroTropi run completed on 10/18-10/20: - It demonstrated that gravitropism (turning or growth movement by a plant or fungus in response to gravity) interferes with hydrotropism (plant growth response in which the direction of growth is determined by a stimulus or gradient in water concentration).  The first run was completed well.  However, the temperature of the MELFI-2 Dewar-4, where the first run samples were supposed to be stowed, was not at +2C as was assumed.  It turned out that it was at -80C (or -18C) before insertion.  The first run samples were stowed into MELFI-2 Dewar-3 (+2C) instead.  There was no damage to the samples.  The cause is being investigated.  Second Hydro Tropi run completed on 10/20-10/21: - It clarified the differential auxin (a plant hormone that promotes root formation and bud growth) response that occurs during the respective tropisms (gravi- and hydro-), by investigating the auxin-inducible gene expression.  The second run executed well, although there was noise generated in the down-link image.  Third run is on-going on 10/21-10/22: - It shows whether hydrotropism can be used in controlling root growth orientation in microgravity. The samples will return by ULF5 Flight as a cold stowage item.”  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     “Shannon: The 4th of 5 inflight Integrated Cardiovascular sessions should be already be in progress, and we are looking forward to completing your FD135 activities next week.“  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    Acquiring science data in JAXA’s Kibo.  Marangoni Exp (JAXA):   Preparation for Marangoni Exp is finished. The experiment will be started on 10/25, and will be implemented over weeks 5 to 13.  Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc19&20.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally and all Science data continues to be downlinked.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.  MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   Caldwell, Wheelock, and Walker performed on 8/30.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.  PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    “Wheels: Thank you for setting up PASSAGES and apologies for the inconveniences during that activity.  The team was so happy and grateful that you could still perform your science session successfully with the two shorter sessions!  All data has been downlinked.  Shannon: Thank you for a smooth PASSAGES session and for your extra effort on the pictures to document the latches!  Scott: Thank you for your first PASSAGES session and for accommodating our preference to do the session without your glasses!”  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    JAXA PCG started on GMT255 (Inc 23&24), and is planned to finish on GMT333 (before 23S Undocking).  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    “Wheels, thanks for your participation in your FD120 session.  Your diet log file and pH log photo have been received on the ground.  Your last Pro K session will be the FD180 session.”  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.  RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Wheels, Shannon and Scott: Thank you for participating in Reaction Self Test!  We have a data downlink scheduled for 10/25.  We look forward to receiving and reviewing your data.”  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report.  SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Wheels: Thank you for performing the monthly Actiwatch download and noting the update for Scott's watch battery install date.  We will track the correct date on the ground.  We will be downlinking the data on Monday along with the SleepLog entries from Shannon's, Scott's and your last week of logging.”  SMILES (JAXA):   Continuous operation from Inc 19&20.  SMILES is starting the 10th trial for cryo system cooling down from 10/18.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   Currently out of Sun visibility window, so no science data being acquired.  SOLSPEC calibration was performed on 10/21.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.  Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report.  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Thanks Wheels, for your 4th data collection for the THERMOLAB experiment during the VO2max protocol!”  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Currently not acquiring data due to an anomaly on the LUXAIS receiver.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    Acquiring data. Command list file uplink performed on 9/1.  VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    Through 10/20, the ground has received a total of 1,297 frames of Exp-25 CEO imagery for review and cataloging.  “Initial review of your downlinked imagery shows that you successfully captured views of Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago.  For this target you took both detailed and context views with very sharp focus. Requirements for this target have been met.  You also captured several glaciers of the Northern Patagonian Ice Field and these images are under further review.  Cape Town, South Africa and Palmyra Atoll are also two sites that we are now able to remove from your target list.  You again used the technique of context and detailed views of Cape Town - outstanding imagery!  You captured Palmyra Atoll in one frame.  The focus on most of the frames was such that you could make out the detail in the fringing reefs.  A highly detailed view of the Great Dyke of Zimbabwe was published on NASA/GFSC's Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  this feature was a favorite of Shuttle crews during the 1990's.  The Great Dyke is a layered intrusion of igneous-metal-bearing rock that has been dated to approximately 2.5 billion years old.  Great job!”  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Mt. Toondina Impact Crater, S. Australia (looking right of track for Mount Toondina impact structure, which is 4 km in diameter and no more than 110 million years old.  A roughly circular ring structure that contrasts with the surrounding desert should have been visible, located within a white “spot” between two river channels.  Overlapping mapping frames were suggested as the best approach to acquiring imagery of the crater), Villarrica Volcano, Chile (looking right of track at the line of glacial lakes extending at right angles away from track as your visual cue, with Villarrica between two of these lakes.  Shooting along the line of lakes to capture the target.  Snow-covered Villarrica is one of Chile's most active volcanoes and one of only four worldwide known to have an active lava lake within its crater), and Wellington, New Zealand (looking right of track for this capital city of New Zealand.  Wellington is located on the southern coast of the North Island.  Partly cloudy weather was expected).  