
Payloads:
Food Physiology: A diet briefing was attended between the crew and Principal Investigator team in support of the Food Physiology investigation. The Integrated Impact of Diet on Human Immune Response, the Gut Microbiota, and Nutritional Status During Adaptation to Spaceflight (Food Physiology) experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight.
Manufacturing Device (ManD): The crew removed the printed object, cleaned the extruder print nozzle, and then labelled, photographed, and stowed the printed object. ManD enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the ManD printer that is installed into an EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) locker location. ManD is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Payload (PL) Network Attached Storage (NAS): As a routine maintenance activity, the crew performed a deep cleaning of the inlet and outlet vents. This is performed in order to prevent automatic shutdown of the unit due to inadequate airflow and resulting higher heat levels. The PL NAS is a file server with five hard drive bays that provides a total of 20 terabytes of raw disk space when used with four terabyte hard drives. Among other capabilities, the PL NAS supports user file transfers from their machine via web browser, and allows onboard ISS systems to access a shared folder location on the NAS.
Plant Habitat: In response to low pressure indications in the Carbon Dioxide (CO2) system, the crew reseated the Quick Disconnects (QDs) on air hoses 1 and 2, replaced the CO2 tanks, and checked for pressure at various points in the CO2 pathway. They also installed the Carbon Dioxide Monitor (CDM) unit in the growth chamber. This is a continuation of the work needed to prepare Plant Habitat for the next experiment, which arrives on NG-18. The Advanced Plant Habitat (Plant Habitat) is a fully automated facility that is used to conduct plant bioscience research on the ISS. It occupies the lower half of the EXPRESS Rack and one powered ISIS drawer, providing a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber.
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3004 Loop Scrub and Iodination: The crew performed an EMU water loop scrub and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity on unit 3004. Additionally, the crew installed the Hard Upper Torso (HUT) ORU Scrubber to a spare HUT to scrub and iodinate the spare HUT water lines. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan: Today, the crew performed eye exams using ultrasound equipment. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board in order to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Ultrasound Exam: Today the crew used the ultrasound device to perform a Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) scan. This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams.
Emergency Health Maintenance System Contingency Drill Training: Training was completed by the crew which provided the opportunity to review procedures, hardware, and communication methods necessary to manage a medical emergency onboard ISS. Emergency medical equipment was deployed, and crew practiced CPR positioning to ensure familiarity with procedure execution should a medical emergency occur. The crew also completed refresher training for long duration missions based on the ISS Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Specialist training syllabus.
 
RS Water Transfers: Per documented agreements between the US and IP Russia, the crew continues to transfer water from the USOS to the RS. Surplus water in the USOS was transferred from the Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) to an ЕДВ. An ЕДВ is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

ACS RGA Startup
SDMS Activation
DBCR Update for SpX26
Ku-Band Antenna Mask Configuration

