
82 Progress (82P) Launch: Yesterday at 7:20 PM CT, 82P launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome carrying food, fuel, and supplies to the ISS. 82P will dock to the ISS Poisk Mini-Research Module 2 (MRM-2) zenith port on Thursday, October 27th at 9:49 PM CT after completing a 34-orbit rendezvous.
Payloads:
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): Cleaning activities were continued to remove any residual fiber fragments from previous fiber-optic experiments. The MSG is a rack-level payload facility located in the U.S. Laboratory module on the ISS. MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen, and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present. MSG is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
Plant Habitat: In response to low pressure indications in the CO2 system, the crew gathered items and reviewed the procedures for troubleshooting activities later this week. This is a continuation of the work needed to prepare Plant Habitat for the next experiment, which arrives on NG-18. The Advanced Plant Habitat (Plant Habitat) is a fully automated facility that is used to conduct plant bioscience research on the ISS. It occupies the lower half of the EXPRESS Rack and one powered ISIS drawer, providing a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The crew completed the activities needed to remove and replace an embedded controller board from the Control and Video Unit (CVU). These activities were in response to off-nominal signatures seen in this experiment hardware. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Standard Measures: Saliva samples were collected in support of the Standard Measures investigation. Spaceflight Standard Measures (Standard Measures) collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crew members until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Systems:
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Maintenance: Today, the crew evacuated the ARED Cylinder Flywheel. They also tightened and torqued set screws within the ARED Cylinder Flywheel and Main Arm Fasteners.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluations: The HMS monitors crew health, responds to crew illness or injury, provides preventive health care, and provides stabilization and emergency transport between vehicles. Today the crew completed PHS evaluations using an otoscope for ear imagery and other tools for measuring and recording the crew’s temperature, blood pressure, pulse, and respiratory rate.
Solar Array Wing (SAW) Mast Starboard Survey: The crew completed a photo survey of the Starboard SAW Masts and SAW Blankets by capturing a series of images from the MRM2 STBD window. These images will provide the ground with an opportunity to review new and old damage to the mast structures.
ITCS Return to Ground Sampling: Today, the crew accessed and sampled ITCS fluid from COL using the Columbus Coolant Fluid Servicer (CCFS) and from the JEM ITCS Sampling Adapter. The ITCS provides equipment cooling and heat rejection through a combination of water loops and interface heat exchangers. This is regularly scheduled preventive maintenance to verify health of the ITCS.
Cygnus Onboard Trainings (OBTs): Several Cygnus trainings were completed by the crew in preparation for NG-18 arrival. The crew completed an overview of the mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures, and interfaces for monitoring and commanding. A robotics review was also completed, followed by a conference with specialists on the ground. 
Ultrasound Exam: Today the crew used the ultrasound device to perform a Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) scan. This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA): TOCA primarily serves as a third level of redundancy safety control for the Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Water Processor for potable water by monitoring total organic carbon (TOC) and total inorganic carbon (TIC) concentration levels, a general indication of overall water quality. To check the accuracy of the TOCA calibration, the crew used a sample bag with a known amount of TOC and TIC. The crew recorded this calibration data for tracking and systems analysis.
HMS Ultrasound 2 Scan: Today, the crew performed eye exams using ultrasound equipment. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board in order to monitor crewmembers eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: EVA hardware activities were performed by the crew in preparation for upcoming EVAs. The Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBAs) were installed into EVA Mobility Units (EMUs) 3009 and 3013, and a powered hardware checkout was performed to verify functionality. The EMUs were reconfigured on the EMU Don/Doff Assemblies (EDDAs), and the EMU Hard Upper Torso On-Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Scrubber O-ring was lubricated to maximize on-orbit lifetime.
HMS Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT2 eye exams today. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS Walkoff Maneuver
SSRMS Boom Survey
Crew Dragon System Checkout
SSRMS LEE Diagnostics
EHDC Checkout

