
Group Combustion Troubleshooting: FE-5 resumed the troubleshooting on the Group Combustion Experiment Module (GCEM).  The crew removed the GCEM Combustion Chamber Element (CCE) from the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) rack and installed it on the Work Bench to verify the air supply line Quick Disconnect (QD) connections.  FE-5 then reinstalled the Combustion Chamber and performed leak checks with the GCEM installed in the MSPR.  Ground teams are reviewing data and high-resolution images prior to proceeding with further troubleshooting steps.  The Group Combustion investigation tests a theory that fuel sprays change from partial to group combustion as flames spread across a cloud of droplets. In the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack in the Kibo module, droplets of decane, a component of gasoline or kerosene, are arranged randomly on thin-fiber lattice points, and the flame and droplet positions and temperature distribution are measured as the flame spreads. Microgravity blocks convection, which on Earth would quickly disperse the droplets and combustion products before such measurements could be made. 
USOS Crew Off Duty:  FE-5 and FE-6 have a reduced work day in preparation for a busy weekend.  Soyuz Operations are continuing nominally to support a 48S docking to the MRM2 Zenith port on Friday 21-October at 9:59 GMT.  Cygnus operations remain on track for capture and berthing to the ISS on Sunday 23-October.  Cygnus is carrying more than 2300 kg of supplies, crew provisions, and science experiments to the ISS.  Cygnus Unberth is currently planned for 18-November.  
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) weekly conference
Hardware prepack for return and disposal on Soyuz 731
СОЖ maintenance
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops.
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) Retrieval
Measuring Partial CO Pressure at RS Central Post using US portable CSA-CP device
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
LBNP Training (PRELIMINARY)
Combustion Chamber (CC) Air Supply Line Check
Combustion Chamber (CC) Top Plate Attachment
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Setup
Vozdukh Atmosphere Purification System switchover from mode 3 to mode 4.
Microbial Capture Device (MCD) and Coliform Water Sample Analysis 44 +/- 4 hours post processing
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) Installation
Air Heater Fan (БВН) Screen Cleaning in Soyuz 731
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) Leak Check 1 Trouble Shoot
Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ)
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 10
Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Setup – Subject
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) Leak Check 2 Trouble Shoot
ISS Crew departure preparation
КОНТЕНТ. Experiment Run

Completed Task List Items

PMM Stowage Consolidation and Organization 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Nominal Ground Commanding
N2 Distribution System Leak Check post MSPR operations 

