
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer 6 (NRCSD#6) Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Operations:  Kelly pressurized the JEM Airlock and performed a leak check today in preparation for the activity planned for tomorrow to safe the door on Deployer #6, which contains two cubesats that were not able to be launched.
 
Tropical Cyclone:  Yui set up a camera in a Cupola window, pointing perpendicular to the ISS velocity vector, with the horizon in view.  The Tropical Cyclone investigation is used to capture images of tropical cyclones and hurricanes that are rated at Category 3 or greater on the Saffir-Simpson scale.  Images will be taken of Cyclone Olaf, which was rated as a Category 4 cyclone as of October 20th.  A pseudo-stereoscopic method is used to determine the altitudes of the cloud tops near the center (eye) of a cyclone by precisely tracking the apparent positions of cloud features with respect to the Earth and how those positions change over time as an observer (the ISS in this case) passes over the storm.  The photographic images will be used to demonstrate that pseudo-spectroscopy can be used to measure the cloud altitudes to sufficient precision so that, when combined with other remote-sensing data, an accurate determination of the intensity of hurricane or cyclone can be made.
 
Sound Level Measurements in the Mouse Habitat Unit (MHU):  Yui installed the MHU Interface in the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and then placed two Acoustic Dosimeters inside the CBEF to provide static sound level measurements.  These measurements will provide an indication of the sound levels that mice in the MHU will be exposed to during JAXA’s Mouse Epigenetics experiment, which will be performed after the mice arrive on a visiting vehicle in the future.  These measurements differ from previous sound level measurements with a Sound Level Meter in that the dosimeters are stand alone, allowing the MHU doors to be closed and operation of the CBEF and Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) fans.
 
Ocular Health Ocular and Cardiac Ultrasounds:  Lindgren assisted Kelly and Kornienko today in performing blood pressure measurements and ocular and cardiac ultrasounds as part of their series of Flight Day 210 Ocular Health tests.   The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Large Format Motion Picture Camera (IMAX):  Yui connected the IMAX Codex to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for a downlink of recorded video files.  IMAX filmmakers intend to produce a three dimensional movie called A Perfect Planet, using ISS-based video and images to show how natural and human forces shape planet Earth. The film will also showcase NASA’s exploration efforts and highlight the ISS as a platform for scientific research and a stepping stone to deep space exploration.
 
Journals:  Kelly made a Journals entry today. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used during astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparation for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly recorded a Sleep Log entry today.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  The crew continued to prepare for the upcoming ISS Upgrades EVA, scheduled for October 28th.  Today, all three USOS crew practiced donning and doffing the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) System on an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) suit.  Lindgren assembled a grease gun that will be used to lubricate Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE) B.   Later, Kelly utilized the EMU Caution & Warning System (ECWS) Trainer to review operations of the EMU Enhanced Caution and Warning System and practice EVA Cuff Checklist procedures.  Lastly, Lindgren continued to gather and configure EVA tools and cameras.
 
Possible Conjunction with Object # 39861 (SL-16 Debris):  Overnight, ground teams continued to evaluate tracking data for a possible conjunction with object # 39861.  Based on trends over the last several tracking updates, the object is now being classified as a low concern and will not require an ISS Pre-Determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM).
 
X2R14 Software Transition:   Flight Controllers continued to update Multiplexer/Demultiplexers (MDMs) with the latest software suite.  Today, they successfully loaded the S3P3 R5 software to the S3-1, S3-2, P3-1, and P3-2 MDMs.  Today’s activities mark the completion of the X2R14 software transition.
 
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Eye Ultrasound
PROBOY. Software Update
XF305 – Video Camera Setup
MHU-ELT2 – Cable Reconfig
PROBOY. Cable Installation and Connection
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) – Installation of units and dosimeters
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Battery Charging for EVA Camera setup
OH – Ocular Health Cardiac Operations
Ocular Health (OH) – Operator assistance
Periodic Fitness Evaluation – Nom Ops (subject)
OH-CARDIAC
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV.  Conduct filling and separation of EDV-KOV No.1106 (ФГБ1ПГО_1_111). For filling used EDV No.1107(ФГБ1ПГО_4_404_1) and EDV No.1118 (ФГБ1ПГО_1_108), for separation use EDV No.1199 (ФГБ1ПГО_1_109)
CBEF – Disconnect Cable
JEMAL – Pressurization
WRS Water Sample Analysis
Battery Charger Battery Swap
JRNL – Journal Entry
Tropical Cyclone P/L Ops
СОЖ Maintenance [Not Performed]
JEMAL – Leak Check after Pressurization
USOS Window Shutter Close
EMU PWR Degassing
Transfer of IVA Tissue-Equivalent Proportional Counter (IV-TEPC)
USND2 – Hardware Deactivation
Video Footage of Greetings
Codex – SSC Configuration for IMAX Video
Prebreathe in EMU
MRM1 Fan Screen Cleaning (Group B)
PROBOY. Installation of Sync Cables
EVA – Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-Board Training
TOCA Data Recording
EVA – Grease Gun Assembly for LEE Lube EVA Task
PROBOY. Installing and Connecting Standalone Recorder [АР]
IMS Update
CBEF – Stopping Acoustic Dosimeter inside CBEF
IMAX – Terminate Battery Charge
Terminate Photo/Video Battery Charge
Photo camera config for US EVA
IMAX – Terminate Codex 512 GB Drive Charge
CBEF – Data Export
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
URISYS Hardware Setup
CBEF – Hardware Setup
Evening Work Prep
CBEF/MSPR2 – Cable connection
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
IMAX – power down
Start EMU Metox Regeneration
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
URAGAN Observations and Photography

 
Completed Task List Items

Lab Printer Swap
Node 1 Rack Relabel

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

S3P3 R5 software load onto S3-1, S3-2, P3-1, and P3-2 MDMs

 
