
Russian Segment Extravehicular Activity (RS EVA) 40:  Suraev and Samokutyaev successfully conducted RS EVA 40 today in 3 hours 38 minutes.  Suraev and Samokutyaev accomplished the following objectives:

Removal and jettison of Radiometriya [РК 21-8] from SM Plane II
Removal of experiment EXPOSE-R protective cover from SM Plane II
Take samples for the “Test” Experiment on DC1 EV hatch 2 window
Removal and jettison KURS (2АСФ1-1 and 2АСФ1-2) antennas from MRM2
Taking photos of ISS RS exterior.

The jettisons were captured on video and specialists are analyzing its trajectory.
RS EVA Isolation activities: Throughout today’s EVA, Serova and Wilmore were isolated in the MRM-2 / Soyuz 40 volume, while Wiseman and Gerst had access to all modules forward of the Service Module / DC1.  During his isolation, Wilmore performed several tasks including an On-Board Training (OBT) for Cygnus rendezvous.  The Orbital-3 flight is scheduled for launch on Monday October 27th, and berthing on November 2nd.  Additionally, he performed an imagery survey of the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) Wake Radiator and will be downlinking the images for ground teams to review.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Sample Collection: Following yesterday’s WHC system flush the crew successfully transferred the contents of an EДB to the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) through a Microbial Removal Filter (MRF).  The filter was able to capture a sufficient amount of black flakes and will be returned to the ground for analysis.
Ocular Health: Wiseman and Gerst performed their final (Return-30 day) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) session with Wiseman first acting as a Subject and Gerst the Operator then switching to Wiseman as the Operator for Gerst.  Gerst and Wiseman also performed fundoscopy with remote guidance. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Medaka Osteoclast Periodic Water Maintenance: Gerst performed a sampling of the Water Circulation Unit of the Aquatic Habitat (AQH) to measure the concentration of ammonia dissolved in the water.  JAXA specialists will be meeting tonight (Houston time) to review the data and determine forward actions. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities completed unless otherwise noted.


Biochemical Urine Test (pre-EVA)
DC1 and ПхО config for EVA / + r/g 6951
Shutdown and disconnect PCS in Node 3 and temp stow hardware and 1553 PCMCIA Card in FGB.  Removal of PCS cables and Relocation (CTB) to FGB per stowage note.
Connecting SSC Laptop in MRM2
CUCU Off Verification
ARED Quarterly Maintenance
Closing window shutters No. 6,8,9,12,13,14 / r/g 5451
Spacesuit Systems Checkout
ZEBRA – Water Sampling & Measurements
MRM2 and ТК 714 Preparation for EVA / r/g 6941 step 2 skip step 2.2
Checkout of БСС (Spacesuit Interface Unit) in ПхО
On-orbit Hearing Assessment using EARQ
Comm config before EVA, r/g 6906, step 1
DC1 БК-3М CheckPre-EVA ISS Onboard Systems Configuration / r/g 6948, step 1
OCT Exam
Orlan, БСС, comm, and biomed parameter telemetry check.
WHC Fill
Donning EVA Gear
Gathering Cables in LAB and Moving to MRM2
MRM2-СУ (SM) Hatch Closure
RGN-REC TK – Transfer and Replacement
Pre-EVA Airlock Operations
ТК 714 Crew Isolation in MRM2 for EVA-40 / r/g 6941, step 3
A/L Operations for EVA – r/g 6950
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
Starboard Solar Array (SA) Photos
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Food Frequency Questionnaire
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Rendezvous Review
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
EVA-40 Tasks / r/g 6926
TOCA Calibration
ISS Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Computer Based Training (CBT)
Inspect LAB cables for indications of damage
PROK – Hardware Unpack
Crew photographs AMS from the MRM2 window
TOCA Calibration
RGN REC-TNK – Remove depress hose for nominal operations
Post-EVA airlock operations + r/g 6950
MRM2- СУ(SM) Hatch Opening
RGN – Drain into EDV
Fundoscope Setup
Biochemical Urine Test after EVA
Fundoscope – Eye Exam
Post-Eva Orlan Suit Maintenance
RS ISS Initial Reconfiguration after EVA-40 / r/g 6951, 6948 step 2
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Fundoscope Teardown and Stowage after the Examl
ТК 714 Deactivation, MRM2 Post-EVA Reconfiguration for Nominal Ops / r/g 6941 step 4 skip 4.2
Elektron-VM Liquid Unit Pressurization before Activation

Completed Task List Items

EML High speed camera installation

Ground Activities

Attitude Handover commanding support
S-Band String 1 activated to Hot Backup 

