10-23-2009October 23, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/23/09  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  At day begin, FE-1 Suraev did the regular daily check of the new aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which he installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) and hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).    [Maxim again inspects the filters tonight at bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  After completing the first part yesterday, FE-5 Williams started the next part (3rd of 5) of the periodic acoustic measurement protocol by recording post-sleep data of the crew-worn acoustic dosimeters, later deploying the dosimeters statically (Part 4), one at the SM (Service Module) Central Post, one in Node-2 and the third in an empty rack bay in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), away from air flow, taking photographs of the locations.  Tonight (~5:10pm EDT), Jeff will record the data taken by the three static dosimeters during the day (Part 5).   [Acoustic data must be taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.]   Williams also had Day 8 of the sleep shift sequence for the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS).     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following the sleep shift.]  Suraev terminated his first experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  CDR De Winne, with FE-3 Romanenko assisting, took the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, spending an hour on the TVIS treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.    [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmember works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace.]  Maxim assisted Roman in his fifth onboard session with the Russian biomedical MBI-15 "Pilot-M"/NEURO signal response experiment of pilot acuity after setting up the workplace and equipment.  Afterwards, the Pilot-M & Neurolab-2000M gear was disassembled and stowed away, and Roman later reported to TsUP-Moscow on his run.  Maxim took documentary photography.    [MBI-15 requires the Multipurpose Hardware Bench as a table, ankle restraint system, eyeball electrodes for an EOG (electrooculogram), and two hand controllers (RUO & RUD) for testing piloting skill in “flying” simulations on a laptop (RSK1) with software (v. 2.0) under stopwatch control, as well as for studying special features of the psychophysiologic response of cosmonauts to the effects of stress factors in flight.]  In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-2 Stott worked on the ER-4 (EXPRESS Rack 4) to install, cable and configure the new DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization) payload, which takes up two lockers in the rack.   [After a procedures review, Nicole connected cabling between the ELL (Electronic Locker) and EXL (Experiment Locker), installed the HTI (High-Temperature Insert) in the EXL and mounted the RHDD (Removable Hard Disk Drive) in the ELL, documenting each major step photographically for ground inspection.  The French (CNES)/NASA-sponsored DECLIC is a multi-user facility to investigate low & high temperature critical fluids behavior, chemical reactivity in supercritical water, directional solidification of transparent alloys, and more generally transparent media under micro-gravity environment.  DECLIC uses the standard infrastructure offered by the US EXPRESS Rack 4 in the Kibo module, with standard lockers.  Typical experiments for DECLIC include fluids (CO2, SF6) close to their near ambient critical point engineered in a dedicated insert (ALI), directional solidification of transparent materials (succinonitrile alloy) engineered in a dedicated insert (DSI), high temperature, and high pressure critical fluids (H2O, NH3, etc.) engineered in the dedicated HTI insert.  DECLIC is designed for remote science control, commonly called "Telescience".  Operation capabilities offer scientists the possibility to remotely visualize and modify their selected experiment conditions in the ISS from User Home Base through the CADMOS User Support & Operation Centre.]  Also in the Kibo module, Nicole performed the daily visual inspected of the MDS (Mice Drawer System) facility in the ER4.  FE-3 Romanenko continued the current round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems in the Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok (FGB), cleaning the mesh screen of its central ventilation fan TsV1 and the detachable fan screens of the three SOTR gas-liquid heat exchangers (GZhT1,2,3), plus the fixed VT7 grill of GZhT4.  FE-4 Thirsk worked on the FDS (Fire Detection & Suppression) system in Node-1, cleaning the module’s SD-2 (Smoke Detector #2) and taping a cover over its grille to protect it from FOD (foreign object/debris).  Also in Node-1, Bob inspected & cleaned the starboard Aft IMV (Intermodular Ventilation) fan inlet.    [“The filter was clogged with a matte of grayish lint and food particles.  Photos available.”]  FE-2 Stott took documentary photography of five PFEs (Portable Fire Extinguishers) in Node-1, A/L (Airlock), Lab (2 PFEs) & Node-2.      [Each PFE has three different serial numbers (S/Ns).  The photos serve to synchronize ground and on-orbit S/N data.]  Jeff Williams concluded his first (FD15) ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity.    [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]  After connecting the ESA MPPL (Multipurpose Laptop) power cable (120V DC) to the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop and turning it on, CDR De Winne downloaded the ICV CDP (Integrated Cardiovascular Cardiopres) data that Bob Thirsk collected last week, from the CBPD (Continuous Blood Pressure Device) to the Cardiolab laptop in the EPM rack via PCMCIA memory card, for downlink by/to COL-CC (Columbus Control Center).  Thirsk conducted the periodic manual filling of the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) flush water tank (EDV-SV).    [If the tank fill caused the red WHC “Pretreat Bad Qual” LED (Light-Emitting Diode) to be illuminated on the ASU control panel, Bob was to clear it.]  Afterwards, Bob & Frank worked on the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), removing & replacing its exercise rope.  FE-2 Stott removed a supply of medical devices called EpiPens from one of the IMAKs (ISS Medical Accessory Kits) and deployed them, in their Ziploc bag, on an inside locker door in the Lab, taking situational photos and updating the medical checklist accordingly.    [EpiPens are commonly used pen-like emergency Epinephrine injectors, designed to prevent anaphylaxis, a severe allergic reaction.]  In the A/L, Nicole terminated the regeneration of METOX (Metal Oxide) CO2 absorption canisters #0019 & #0020 and returned the units to their stowage.    [METOX cans are used in the A/L and in EMUs (Extravehicular Mobility Units) to scrub carbon dioxide from the air.]  Also in the A/L, FE-5 Williams inspected three BRTs (Body Restraint Tethers) for loose base mount screws.    [Jeff reported “no issue”.]  Working in the A/L on the three US PGTs (Pistol Grip Tools), Jeff installed an older HDD (Hard Disk Drive) with PGT programming software in the SSC (Station Support Computer), connected the PGTs and erased their event logs via the PGT remote programming port, then checked them out in preparation for new EVAs. . Suraev conducted an extended (3-hr) session with the Russian KPT-2 BAR experiment to take environmental background measurements in the SM in the vicinity of the TVIS treadmill.    [The experiment to determine TVIS noise signatures from a large number of locations in “Zvezda” used the BAR’s AU-1 Ultrasound Analyzer and Iva-6A Thermal Hygrometer.  Data were taken with TVIS motor powered up and Romanenko exercising, plus with TVIS powered off.]  The FE-1 did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Max also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  In the SM, Jeff replaced the battery of the prime CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products, #1053) with a fresh one.  Williams & Suraev each had an hour to themselves again for general orientation (station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.  FE-4 donned & activated the transducer-instrumented TVIS harness for his individual exercise run on the treadmill.  Afterwards, Bob downloaded the harness data and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).   The crew performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-5), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-3).   Afterwards, Frank transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  At ~4:15am EDT, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.  At ~7:00am, Maxim linked up with TsUP stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory & stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.  At ~7:20am, Frank De Winne conducted a tagup with the ESA staff at Col-CC (Columbus Control Center) at Oberpfaffenhofen/Germany.   [This conference is scheduled once every week, between ISS crewmembers and Col-CC via S/G2 (Space-to-Ground 2) audio.]  At ~8:00am, CDR De Winne supported a formal PAO TV event, exchanging greetings & remarks with participants in the First EU-ESA International Conference on Human Space Exploration at Stirin Castle in Prague, Czech Republic.  The exchange was moderated on the ground by Claudie Haignière, former ESA astronaut, two-time French minister and currently President of Cité des Sciences et Industries in Paris.     [Ministers from the 29 ESA & EU (European Union) member states are meeting today in Prague to prepare a roadmap leading to the definition of a common vision and strategic planning in space exploration.  This first step in a process in the definition of a European vision in this field stems from a resolution adopted by the 5th Space Council in September 2008.  The Space Council is the joint and concomitant meeting of the EU and ESA Councils at ministerial level.  Members of European and national parliaments and representatives from industry and academia are also attending the conference.  Representatives of ISS partner agencies as well as other international space organisations will also be present.  The conference is a brainstorming session at high political level where ministers will have an opportunity to provide initial political guidelines to ESA and the EU on the development of a policy in the field of exploration.]  At ~8:50am, all crewmembers convened for their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office (Steve Lindsey), via S-band S/G-2 audio & phone patch.  At ~10:25am, Stott, Williams, Thirsk, De Winne and the NASA Crew Science Officer held a 30-min payload science conference via S-Band, with IPM (Increment Payload Manager), LIS (Lead Increment Scientist) and POM (Payload Operations Manager), to discuss the ISS payloads.   At ~10:55am, Nicole, Jeff, Bob & Frank joined in the first Increment-21 IMS stowage conference with MCC-H flight controllers and stowage specialists.  At ~3:35pm, the ISS crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H via S-band/audio.    [S/G-2 (Space-to-Ground 2) phone patch via SSC (Station Support Computer).]  The crew conducted three ham radio sessions, using the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply):  at 6:23am Frank De Winne with students at C. E. M. IV school in Mbour, Senegal,at 7:06am Frank with students at VTI Ieper school in, Ieper, West-Vlaanderen, Belgium, andat 12:21pm Jeff Williams with students at Samuel Hearne Secondary School, Inuvik, Northern Territories, Canada.  WRM Update:  A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked last night to the crew for their reference, updated with yesterday’s CWC (Collapsible Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (21-0028B) lists 79 CWCs (~1,791.7 L total) for the four types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (66 CWCs with 1,407.5 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 215.4 L for flushing only due to Wautersia bacteria & 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 2. potable water (8 CWCs with 323.1 L, of which 23.0 L (1 bag) are off-limit due to Wautersia) and 128.3 L (3 bags) good for contingency use, 3. condensate water (3 CWCs, empty), 4. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 61.1 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  AVATAR Issue:   Bob Thirsk was asked to repeat a run with the “Avatar EXPLORE” experiment which did not downlink a usable command data file.    [Avatar EXPLORE is an interesting CSA (Canadian Space Agency)-developed communications & robot autonomy software that allows Bob Thirsk aboard the ISS to remotely interact with & control a robot rover on a Mars landscape – a simulated environment called the Mars Emulation Terrain, at CSA-Hqs in St. Hubert, Quebec.  Since file exchanges between ISS and the ground are conducted only a few times per day to simulate a low-bandwidth channel, typical for planetary operations, all interactions must be conducted offline.  For evaluating telemetry files received from the rover and building a control command file, Thirsk uses an SSC laptop with an HTML-format GUI (Graphic User Interface) which allows him to interact with the Avatar software in more ways than just typing.  A GUI offers graphical icons and visual indicators, as opposed to text-based interfaces, typed command labels or text navigation to fully represent the information and actions available to a user.  Avatar’s Mars simulation and what is learned by it will one day become a reality.]  MELFI-2 Update:   The R&R of the MELFI-2 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 2) EU (Electronic Unit) on 10/21 was successful, and its reconnection to the ITCS LTL (Internal Thermal Control. System / Low Temperature Loop) was completed without issue.  Ku-band Drop-out:   Wednesday (10/21) night the onboard Ku-band stopped transmitting unexpectedly during an LOS (Loss-of-Signal) period.  After troubleshooting and power-cycling (Off/On) the TRC (Transmitter Receiver Controller), the system came back up in nominal state.  ISS was without Ku for about 5 ½ hours, and the ground used S-band to analyze what was happening with TRC that failed.  Analysis is underway.   HTV Disposal Stowage Update:   JAXA has set a maximum loading cap of 728 kg for HTV1 (H-II Transfer Vehicle 1) stowage, including 69 kg requested by Moscow.  Until 10/29 (HTV1 hatch closing), JAXA will consider requests to swap items for HTV disposal as long as max load stays within the 728 kg cap.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Addis Ababa, Ethiopia (ISS had a late-morning pass with scattered clouds.  Looking just left of track for the city.  Addis has a population of more than 3 million.  As the capital of Ethiopia and home of the African Union, it has communities representing 80 nationalities.  It is growing fast, and the CEO team requested images of the urban fringe where change is focused.  Addis Ababa should have been almost nadir), Megafan SW Algeria (this was a mid-morning pass and the weather should be clear.  Shooting a mapping pass right of track for approximately 60 seconds.  Large fan-shaped masses of sediment have been laid down at the foot of uplands by rivers when the Sahara was under wet climates.  River patterns on the fans are probable analogs for enigmatic sinuous patterns on Mars), Soufriere Hills Volcano, Caribbean (the crew was able to capture a spectacular view of the ash and steam plume emanating from Soufriere Hills [“Sulphur Hills”] on 10/11.  The CEO team is interested in any views that the crew can capture of the subsequent deposits resulting from the pyroclastic flows [fast-moving currents of hot gas and rock that travel away from the volcano at great speeds].  The Soufriere Hills volcano comprises the southern half of the island of Montserrat in the Lesser Antilles chain.  An active and highly dangerous volcano, eruptions beginning in 1995 caused the evacuation and destruction of the capitol city of Plymouth), and All Saints Bay, Salvador, Brazil (H.M.S. Beagle Site: All Saints Bay is an inlet of the Atlantic Ocean and provides a protected harbor for the city of Salvador.  The city of Salvador is located on the tip of the peninsula.  On February 28, 1832 the Beagle anchored in All Saint Bay.  Charles Darwin spent a few days exploring the tropical rain forests).  