
X2R21 Transition Activities: As part of the X2R21 software updates occurring this week, the crew attached Portable Computer System (PCS) laptops to the Joint Station LAN (JSL) so they could be imaged from the ground. After imaging, the N2, Airlock, Lab, and SM PCS laptops were reconnected to 1553. The X2R21 software updates will provide support for new vehicles such as the HTV-X1 and DCC-1, add safing for rack relocation activities, provide commanding and mode swap capabilities, and provide a number of other generic system improvements.
Payloads:
Cerebral Autoregulation: The Cardiolab Portable Doppler (CDL PDOP) and European Physiology Modules Facility Continuous Blood Pressure Device (EPM CBPD) Kits were set up for future measurement operations. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight, and provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
TangoLab-2 (Mission-28): Card S/N 12 and cube QUST_NXT03 were removed from the Card S/N 12 in slot 5 and photos (logo and bar code) of the removed cube were taken. Cube QUST_NXT02 was installed at position A-C, E-G of card S/N 12 and installed in slot 5. TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): Harvest #4 was performed from the XROOTS facility and samples were bagged and stowed for return. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: The crew performed a monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screen tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking, and spatial processing.
Toilet Conductivity Monitor Installation: After gathering equipment and reviewing Big Picture Words (BPW), the crew removed the Port-side Stall panels and installed the Toilet COTS Conductivity Monitor (CCM). The CCM is an inductive-based conductivity sensor that provides pretreat quality monitoring. Confirming proper pretreatment of urine is critical prior to sending urine downstream for processing by the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA). 
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Hardware was unstowed from the Airlock to prepare for EVA operations, and EVA procedures were reviewed. After reviewing detailed procedures, tools, and additional references for the ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep 1B EVA, the crew participated in a conference with ground teams.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Standby CCS R21 Load C&C
Primary CCS R21 Transition
Reconfigure the Primary C&C
Backup C&C S-band String Availability Configuration
MAC Software Transition
S-Band RFG 2 Activation

