10-30-2010October 30, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 10/30/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew rest day.   Yest kasaniye!    At 12:36pm EDT, Progress M-08M/40P docked successfully to the DC1 (Docking Compartment) nadir port under precise manual control from the SM (Service Module) by Alex Kaleri who, on Moscow instruction, assumed control with the TORU system shortly before final approach (reason for this TsUP decision remains currently under investigation).  Kurs antenna retraction was nominal.  Kasaniya (contact) was followed by a final DPO post-contact thrusting burn, docking probe retraction and Sborka (hook closure) after motion damp-out while the ISS was in free drift for 20 min (12:36pm-12:56pm).  At “hooks closed” signal, the SM returned to active attitude control, maneuvering the ISS to LVLH TEA (local vertical/local horizontal Torque Equilibrium Attitude) at ~12:59pm.  Control authority returned to US Momentum Management at ~1:50pm.  Clamps installation, leak checking and hatch opening are scheduled tomorrow (5:10am-5:30am).  Progress 40P is delivering a total cargo mass of 2418 kg, consisting of 870 kg propellants, 50 kg oxygen, 226 kg water & 1272 kg dry cargo.   For monitoring 40P rendezvous & docking from the ground, CDR Wheelock & FE-5 Yurchikhin had set up the Ku-band video “scheme” for covering the Progress docking, activating the FGB-based A31p SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop for the TV conversion to NTSC & Ku-band of the RS (Russian Segment) video signal from the SONY HDV camera via the MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoder from FGB & SM, in order to downlink “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.    Approach & docking was monitored by Yurchikhin as always on the SSC1 laptop using the NVIEWER (NASA Viewer) software application.   After the docking, Doug Wheelock tore down and removed the MPEG-2 “scheme” streaming video downlink setup, then deactivated the conversion A31p laptop in the FGB.   At wake-up, FE-2 Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Oleg again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   In the morning, FE-6 Walker shut down the amateur/ham radio equipment (~3:30am) to prevent RF interference with the Progress KURS radio control system, while FE-3 Kelly closed the protective shutters of the Lab, Kibo & Cupola science windows.    [Ham gear was turned on again by Shannon before sleeptime.]   Also before docking, Yurchikhin activated and verified proper operation of the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM for taking structural dynamics data during the Progress spacecraft docking.  Afterwards, Fyodor downlinked the measurement data to the ground and shut off DAKON.      [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]   FE-3 Kelly started his 2nd 24-hr urine collections of the Generic HRF (Human Research Facility) urine sampling protocol, taking samples several times for MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) sample storage.      [Based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV (International Procedures Viewer) capabilities, the generic blood & urine procedures for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]   Scott also supported remote payload operations on the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment) payload by turning on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starting the data flow, while POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center/Huntsville) routed the HRDL (High-Data Rate Line) system.  Scott deactivated the MPC after about 3h20m.     [CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  ICF is one of three CFE experiments, the others being Vane Gap (VG) and Contact Line (CL).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]   CDR Wheelock, FE-6 Walker & FE-3 Kelly did their share of the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, performed yesterday for the RS by the three Russian Flight Engineers.     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   Fyodor performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Wheels & Scott filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   At ~8:10am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   At ~4:05pm, Shannon held her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).   The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Five -- Week 5).  2D NANO Template (JAXA):    No report.   3D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     “Thank you Scott for the deactivation / reactivation for ALTEA-SHIELD to set it in the "DOSI normal 15" mode (energy threshold 15MIP).  After the re-activation, the SDUs (Silicon Detector Units) did not start measuring again.  The team suspects that the file got possibly corrupted during uplink.  A procedure is in work to correct for this.”  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):     “BCAT-5 has continued operations examining the evolution of sample 8 from Simon Fraser University in British Columbia, Canada.  The lighting and focus readjustment by Shannon Walker allowed to get good experiment data to the end of this first run.  Data analysis reveals that the colloid density is not uniform across the couvette.  Sample 8 is the highest density of the Canadian samples and will likely require more mixing than expected for re-homogenization of the second run, planned to start after Shuttle undock.  It is also observed that contrary to the previous two samples, phase separation is still evolving, albeit very slowly, beyond the onset of crystallization.  Many thanks to Shannon for yet another successful BCAT run.”  BIOLAB (ESA):    On 10/22, the BIOLAB SpectroPhotometer test was completed from ground.  “Thanks, Scott, for the photos taken of the BIOLAB QD on 10/28.  The photos will help the team in their further investigation on the QD for this B6 position.”  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.   BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    CBEF wipe was executed by Shannon as a regular task on 10/26.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):     No report.  CFS-A (Fungi-A):   Preparations for launch on ULF5 have been reported to proceed all nominally.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    “Scott: Thank you for your excellent work replacing the MDCA Fuel Reservoirs on 10/26.  We look forward to getting back to test points!”  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.   CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    No report.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):     The Directional Solidification Insert (DSI-S2) run finished on 10/27.  DECLIC was deactivated at 10/27/12:00pm EDT.  During week 5 we performed 3 / 4 solidifications with success.  All of the scientific objectives of this run have been reached; only one solidification has not been performed.  The DSI portion of the DECLIC multi-user facility experiment is studying transparent alloys that freeze like metals under microgravity.  This specific experiment is studying SCN-based alloys.  SCN stands for succinonitrile, which is a transparent organic substance that melts at 57 Celsius.  The next run (DSI-C) is planned to start on November 22nd.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.    DOSIS (Active Measure, ESA):     Science data acquisition with DOSTEL2 detector only.  Data downlink completed on 10/25.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA): (Kids in Space):   No report.   EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    No report.  . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.  EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    Space Bottle has been wrapped with Kapton tape and moved to the airlock for ULF5 EVA on 10/14. This bottle will be exposed in space by ULF-5 shuttle EVA.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    No report.  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET-2 (JAXA):   No report.   FERULATE (JAXA):    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     During the first operations of the CVB Module - 20 mm Pentane in June, unexpected nucleation events were observed while the bubble was being heated and grown to the proper size.  Since these events were both very interesting and unplanned, the science team requested that we suspend 20 mm operations and move on to the 40 mm module while they assessed this finding.  The 40 mm module was successfully tested, and we returned to 20 mm operations on 10/15.  Interesting bubble nucleation was again observed, and the nucleation events were studied for a period of three days.  Since the nucleation events seemed random, it was difficult to capture the image data; however, multiple sequences were captured successfully along with temperature and pressure data.  These events stopped when the bubble was grown to the full size to complete the planned test matrix. About 80% of the 20 mm science matrix was completed on 10/26.  We expect to complete operations within the planned time (10/29).  The CVB operations and science teams would like to thank the ISS crew for their support in completing CVB operations.  Images are included in a separate message.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.   HAIR (JAXA):   No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 1901 images have been taken to date.  We will be attempting (again) to image Mt. Everest.  This has been a difficult target for the HICO team due to clouds.  Other interesting areas include the Nile River, the Red Sea, and the Bahamas.  We are working on a new set of images for release in the coming weeks.  HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):     The Hydro Tropi Experiment was successfully completed last Friday.  Third run was performed 10/21-10/10/22.  Image data from CBEF had some noise but no impact.  Thank you for the cooperation from the planning to the execution.  This sample will be returned by ULF5, as Cold Stowage.”  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     "Shannon and Wheels:  Great job on Monday's Echo!  Shannon:  We were also VERY pleased to note the improved Makita battery performance over the weekend!  Thanks so much for all the battery info in the crew notes - it's very useful.  Four down, one to go!"   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    “Thank you, Wheels, to have completed the MATROSHKA pictures taking from the task list on your Sunday!  The science team confirmed that all looks fine from the pictures!”  Marangoni Exp (JAXA):   Ryutai Rack cable reconfiguration in the task list (MI-FPEF CABLE-CNCT) was completed on 10/24, and the experiment started on 10/25.  The Marangoni experiment contributes to high quality crystal growth, high performance heat pipe for cooling PC devices, and so on.  1st run was completed on 10/26.  Very important data have been collected from Run1.  PI team express their thanks to all the concerned, they could make good start from Run1.  2nd run was completed on 10/27.  This run was started about 1hr late since IR camera initialization failed at prep activity.  3rd run is on-going.  -4th run will be started on 10/28.  The experiment runs will continue until the beginning of the next year.   Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc19&20.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-2 (JAXA):    First sampling session (Swab test with wet wipe from 5 points in JEM) will be performed on 10/29.  This sample will be returned by ULF5, as Cold Stowage.  This experiment studies the microbe development in “KIBO” after around one year (from Microbe-1).  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally and all Science data continues to be downlinked.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.   MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   Caldwell, Wheelock, and Walker performed on 8/30.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.   NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    “Scott, thank you for participating in your first Nutrition session.  All of your barcodes and photos have been received on the ground.  Your FD30 session was just completed.  The urine collections are planned over the weekend beginning on the 30th October.   PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report.    PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    In progress in Ryutai Rack.   PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Wheels and Shannon, next week you will begin another sleep shift sequence for Reaction Self Test.  Scott, this will be your first sleep shift session for Reaction Self Test.  For a sleep shift sequence, Reaction Self Test is performed twice daily for 3 days prior to a sleep shift, the days of the sleep shift and 5 days following the sleep shift.  Therefore, for this sleep shift sequence, Reaction Self Test will be scheduled for each of you twice daily from 10/31 to 10/16."  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report.   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    “Shannon, we are targeting Monday to begin another week of Sleep log entries.  Wheels, we are targeting Monday to begin another week of Sleep log entries.  Thank you for your feedback regarding your Actiwatch.  It looks like the problem may have been hardware related and we are planning an activity in the near future to swap your current Actiwatch for another one.  Scott, we are targeting Monday to begin another week of Sleep log entries.”  SMILES (JAXA):   10th recooling was discontinued.  Warming-up process without active control.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   Currently out of sun visibility window. Next window is expected to start on 10/29-30.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.   Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    “Scott, thank you for all your work during today's SPHERES test session.  You were a highly efficient first-timer, we were very encouraged by how well you appeared to grasp the concepts of operating SPHERES.  We expected our science runs to be limited this session, and are excited that you were able to complete the tests you did.  In this session we obtained data on the effects of slosh due to the liquid in the gas tank of the satellite and investigated satellite formation flight control algorithms.  We look forward to working with you on the upcoming High School student competition titled Zero Robotics in December.  It will be an exciting event!”  SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA):     All preparation for launch in Baikonur completed nominally. On its way to the Station now on 40P.  : European Space Agency’s (ESA’s)  (SPHINX).  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Thanks, Wheels, for completing your 5th data collection for THERMOLAB during your VO2max protocol.  Thanks, Shannon, for completing your 4th data collection for THERMOLAB during your VO2max protocol.”  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):    “Wheels, thanks to the activity you performed on 10/27 to swap the receiver back to the NorAIS receiver, the team is now back in business and receiving good vessel tracking data on the ground.  Further investigation is on-going on the failure of the LuxAIS receiver.”  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    “Shannon, the feedback received from the ground teams / science team was that they got good images and the session was really smooth. Much appreciated!”  VO2max (NASA):    “Shannon and Wheels, thank you for the great VO2max sessions this week! We have your data down and analysis will begin soon. We look forward to your final sessions in November.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    Through 10/26, the ground has received a total of 1,656 frames of Exp-25 CEO imagery for review and cataloging.   “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following targets with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists:  NW Glaciers of Northern Patagonian Ice Field - excellent session of individual glaciers - still under review; Canberra, Australia - some partial, cloud-obscured views - we will continue to try for this target; - likewise for incomplete coverage of Sydney, Australia.  We note with interest your efforts at cities at night and have so far indentified views of Chicago and the New York-Long Island area.  Your fine view of the Merowe Dam on the Nile River, Republic of Sudan was published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  Your image nicely documents the current extent of the reservoir filling behind the dam since the last spill gate was closed in 2008.  Thanks for this heads-up shot!”   CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Merapi Volcano (looking right of track for this erupting volcano.  Merapi (Mountain of Fire) lies in one of the world's most densely populated areas and dominates the landscape immediately north of the major city of Yogyakarta.  It is the most active volcano in Indonesia and has erupted regularly since 1548, most recently last Tuesday October 26, 2010), Gaborone, Botswana (looking just left of track.  Gaborone is the largest city and capital of Botswana, and is situated on the Notwane River in the southeastern corner of the country.  Overlapping frames of the urban area were requested), and Bissau, Guinea-Bissau (looking just right of track on the largest estuary for the capital city of Guinea-Bissau.  General context views of the city and surrounding region were requested).  