
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Manifold Bottle Replacement: In support of part 2 of the CIR / Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) / Electric-Field Effects on Laminar Diffusion (E-FIELD) Flames operations, the crew removed the 30% ethylene, 70% nitrogen fuel bottle and replaced it with a 100% methane fuel bottle today.  For E-Field Flames, an electric field with voltages as high as 10,000 volts is established between the burner and a mesh electrode. The motion of the charged ions, naturally produced within the flame, are strongly affected by a high-voltage electric field. The resulting ion-driven wind can dramatically influence the stability and sooting behavior of the flame. Conducting the tests in microgravity allows for simplifications in the analysis, enabling new understanding and the development of less pollution and more efficient combustion technology for use on Earth. 
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF) Sample Holder Insertion: The crew performed an ELF sample holder insertion. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts are measurable and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.  ELF typically processes oxide samples, but is also capable of processing semiconductors, alloys, and metals.
Grip Supine Science Session: The crew was scheduled to perform the third part of Grip science tasks (third out of three this week) in the supine position. However, the session was only partially completed. Data is being downlinked and the ground team is discussing further action. ESA’s Grip investigation tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects. Results from this investigation may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments. Data from the GRIP experiment may also support design and control of haptic interfaces used in challenging environments such as space, as well as provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.
Life Science Glovebox (LSG) Final Integration and Closeout: Today the crew removed the front launch panel and work volume launch locks and deployed the LSG work volume.  After removing door pip pins and the cable harness block, they installed the fan electronics box.  When connecting the Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) lines, JAXA noted a drop in accumulator quantity and asked the crew to disconnect the lines.  LSG lines were flown wet so the drop was unexpected.  The accumulator quantity continued to decrease slightly following the demate of the lines and then stabilized, which is thought to be due to the gas trap removing air from the system.  Teams are standing down on operations for today while they discuss the forward plan.  Commissioning is planned for November 12th.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


JEMRMS Backup Drive System Reconfiguration
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Manifold #4 Bottle Replacement

Two Day Look Ahead: 
Thursday, 11/01:
Payloads:


CIR/ACME Burst Disc Removal
DECLIC HDD Exchange
ESA/GRASP
Food Acceptability
MERLIN Desiccant Swap
Plant Hab-01 Harvest Review and Preparation
Veg-02G Plant Thinning and Maintenance

Systems: 

Update Emergency Book Procedures

Friday, 11/02:
Payloads:


FIR/LMM config for ACE-T7
ESA/Astro-Pi
ESA/GRASP
Plant Hab-01 SC2 harvest
GLACIER icebrick ops

Systems:

HTV General Luminaire Assembly (GLA) Scavenge

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


GRIP setup in Supine position
JEMRMS Backup Drive System (BDS) Reconfiguration
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Retrieval
On MCC GO Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) cartridge Ф2 (start)
GRIP science performance in supine position
SM Atmosphere Analysis using Freon Leak Analyzer/Detector (ФИТ)
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Sample Holder Insertion
СОЖ Maintenance
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) sample Cartridge Installation
Test Activation of [СКВ1] Air Conditioner System 1 Compressor Unit from [СКВ2] Power Supply (preparation).
Acoustic Monitor Data Transfer and Stow
ESA Weekly crew conference [Aborted]
Test Activation of [СКВ1] Air Conditioner System 1 Compressor Unit from [СКВ2] Power Supply (routing cable).
JEMRMS Backup Controller (BUC) Power On for BDS C/O
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) Closeout Video Setup
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) Closeout Configuration
EML Gas Valves Closing
BIOCARD
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
JEMRMS Backup Drive System (BDS) Checkout 2
GRIP partial stowage
Combustion Integrated Rack Upper Rack Doors Open
JEMRMS Back Up Controller (BUC) Power Off for BDS C/O
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold #4 Bottle Replacement
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) Closeout Configuration
JEMRMS Backup Drive System (BDS) Checkout cleanup
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Combustion Integrated Rack Upper Rack Doors Close
Photo TV Camera Set Up For Radiator Inspection
Photo TV Starboard Radiator Imagery 1

On MCC GO Test Activation of [СКВ1] Air Conditioner System 1 Compressor Unit from [СКВ2] Power Supply (bringing the system to initial configuration).

Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 2 Setup
Actiwatch Spectrum EVAL SUP
Actiwatch Spectrum HRF Rack 2 Stow
Photo TV Starboard Radiator Imagery 2
Photo TV Deactivation for Radiator Imagery
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) Integration [Deferred]
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) Closeout Stow [Deferred]
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Termination
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Initiation

 