
Circadian Rhythms:  Gerst donned instrumentation to begin the 36 hour Circadian Rhythm experiment which investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Space headaches:  Gerst and Wiseman will complete weekly questionnaires. The objectives of this study are to obtain in-flight data allowing evaluation of the prevalence and characteristics of headache in microgravity.
Seedling Growth-2:  In preparation for the Seedling Growth-2 experiment, Wilmore manually opened the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Gas Valves within 24 hours prior to the start of the EMCS experiment. Seedling Growth-2 is the second part of the Seedling Growth Experiment series and uses the plant Arabidopsis thaliana to determine the effects of gravity on cellular signaling mechanisms of phototropism and to investigate cell growth and proliferation responses to light stimulation in microgravity conditions.
Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device (SLAMMD): Gerst, Wiseman and Wilmore set up and configured SLAMMD hardware and took body mass measurements.
Biological Rhythms 48 hours: Wiseman donned the Actiwatch to begin the 48 hour measurement. The objective of this study is to examine the accurate circadian variation of cardiac autonomic function by space flight. The crew wears an Actiwatch for 96 hours and an electrocardiograph (ECG) for 48 hours.  The crew conducts two In-flight data collects.
Zebra fish Muscle:  Wilmore configured equipment to capture specimens from the Aquatic Habitat.  Three fish will be fixed with RNAlater and three with Paraformaldehyde. The specimens will be inserted in a sample Box Module within a Minus Eight-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI) rack.  The Zebra fish muscle experiment investigates if the atrophy of muscles in microgravity also occurs in zebra fish and why it occurs.
Deck Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning: Gerst cleaned his CQ’s intake and exhaust ducts, fans and air flow sensors in preparation for his return to Earth on November 9th on 39 Soyuz (S).
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub Conductivity Test: Wiseman completed water conductivity tests on two of the EMU water samples taken yesterday during loop scrub activities. The samples will be returned to the ground for analysis on 39S. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Morning Inspection. Laptop RS1(2) & RSS2 Reboot / r/g 1009
Morning Inspection. SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test
BIOEMULSIYA. Activate Cryogem-03M at +37 С / r/g 7046
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference / r/g 7007
Transfer of Thermal Protection Jackets [ТЗК] from ISS to ТК 713 / r/g 7053
ISS Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Computer Based Training (CBT)
Space Headaches Weekly Questionnaires
Sokol Suit Leak Check in ТК 713
BIOCARD. Experiment Ops / r/g 7043
RGN – Initiate drain into EDV
Sokol Suit Drying
Sampling condensate water [КАВ] from СРВ-К2М before Gas-liquid mixture filter (ФГС) to drink bags – end
EMU – Conductivity Test
LBNP Exercise (PRELIMINARY) / r/g 7054
RGN – Terminate drain into EDV
Bringing ODF up to date using ТКГ 424 delivered files / r/g 7030
ZEBRA Transfer
BIOEMULSIYA. Activation of RECOMB-K and Setup in thermostat at + 37 deg C. / r/g 7047
Sampling condensate water [КАВ] upstream of СРВ-К2М БКО – configuration setup, sampler installation
WRS Water Sample Analysis
Crew Quarters – Cleaning
ZEBRA – Experiment Ops
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Food Frequency Questionnaire
Installation of Local Temperature Sensor Switching Unit (ЛКТ) (ТА251М1Б) and ПЗУ Memory Unit in Progress 424
MRM2 comm config to support voice comm during the experiment
Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Run. / r/g 7042
BLR48 – Experiment start
Terminate EMU Metox Regeneration
Packing water samples and ion filters for 39S return
HRF1 – Connection and Hardware Checkout
Offloading ТКГ 424 (DC1) Early Unstow, Priority, and US Cargo, and IMS Ops
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
KULONOVSKYI KRISTALL. Copy and Downlink Data / r/g 7042
ICEBRICK – Insertion
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion (CSA-CP) Checkout
USOS Cargo Pre-pack to be loaded into ТК 713
Terminate drying the 3rd pair of gloves / ТК 713 Orbital Flight
ZEBRA – Experiment Ops
EMCS – Module Replacement
Thermolab – Instrumentation Ops for Circadian Rhythms
Preventive maintenance of DC1 АСП-О hatch sealing mechanisms and ТКГ 424 hatch. (as necessary)
Sampling condensate water [КАВ] upstream of СРВК-2М БКО – removing sampler, setup teardown
TOCA Data Recording
HRF1– Software Installation
LIV 18 Cable Test. То=18:30,Т1=18:10
HRF1 – Body mass measurement. 

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities

None

