
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS):  Today, the crew transferred images to the Station Support Computer (SSC), replaced the SB-800 Flash batteries, verified the camera alignment and focus are still intact, and re-set the intervalometer.  BCAT-CS continues to produce interesting data resulting in an extension past the original 2-4 week run duration.  BCAT-CS focuses on the study of forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles. Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration.
Echo Setup and Stow:  The crew retrieved the Echo hardware and deployed it in the Columbus module so the ground could perform maintenance activities. The purpose of the Echo investigation is to evaluate a tele-operated ultrasound system, equipped with motorized probes controlled by flight controllers on the ground. Additionally, this investigation serves to perform the commissioning of the Echo instrument, which is planned to be used for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Vascular Echo experiment in the future.
GRIP Seated Science Session:  The crew completed the GRIP seated session, which is second of three GRIP activities for the week.  European Space Agency (ESA)’s GRIP investigation tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects.  Results from this investigation may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments. Data from the GRIP experiment may also support design and control of haptic interfaces used in challenging environments such as space, as well as provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.
Vegetable Production System (Veggie):  Today, the crew increased the fan speed to the high setting for Veggie. This was performed to help lower the higher than expected moisture levels in the plant pillow wicks. Veggie is a deployable plant growth unit capable of producing salad-type crops to provide the crew with a palatable, nutritious, and safe source of fresh food and a tool to support relaxation and recreation.  The VEG-03G experiment is currently running in the Veggie facility. 
Life Science Glovebox (LSG) Outfitting:  Today, the crew successfully integrated the LSG Core Facility (CF), which arrived on HTV7, with the Avionics Package (AP), which arrived on SpX-15.  Afterwards, the crew installed the hardware into the Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR). Tomorrow, the crew will complete the on-orbit configuration of LSG with commissioning planned for November 12th. The LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its large enclosed volume of around 450 Liters, almost twice the size of the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), two crew members can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Lab Waste Water Bus Reconfiguration:  As a follow up to yesterday’s attempt to reconfigure the water bus for the newly installed Life Support Rack (LSR), ground teams reviewed photos of the o-rings and the poppet on the male side of the Quick Disconnect (QD) and determined it was nominal. Today, the crew successfully completed the Lab Waste Water Bus reconfiguration.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Successful JEMRMS activation and checkout in support of GEDI Payload arriving on SpX-16

Two Day Look Ahead:
Wednesday, 10/31
Payloads:


Actiwatch Spectrum evaluation
CIR/ Manifold Bottle Replacement
ELF Cartridge Operations
EML Gas Valve Close
GRIP Seated Science 3 Session
ISS HAM pass

Systems:

LSG Configuration and Closeout

Thursday, 11/01:
Payloads:


CIR/ACME Burst Disc Removal
DECLIC HDD Exchange
ESA/GRASP
Food Acceptability
MERLIN Desiccant Swap
Plant Hab-01 Harvest Review and Preparation
Veg-02G Plant Thinning and Maintenance

Systems: 

Update Emergency Book Procedures

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


EVA Procedure Review for Suit IV
Acoustic Monitor Setup for Static Measurements
Auxiliary Computer System [ВКС] Laptops Antivirus Software Checkout and Report
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sedimentation Camera Activities
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 System (T2) Monthly Inspection
DESIS Cushion Relocate
EarthKAM Node 1 Shutdown, Disconnect and Stow – Russian
Echo setup for ground maintenance activities
ECON-M. Observations and photo (Task list)
EML Gas Valves Opening
EML High Speed Camera Lens Switch
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Rad Detector Rotate
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Calibration Check
ESA Monthly Management Conference [Aborted]
Extravehicular Activity (EVA)  Training Review
GRASP experiment constraints reminder
GRIP experiment constraints reminder
GRIP science performance in seated position
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection
Hematocrit Hardware Stowage
Hematocrit Test
IMPACT. Photography of IMPACT tray No.1 from DC1 EV Hatch 1 window
IMS Update
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) Installation
International Procedure Viewer Tablet Questionnaire
iPad Wireless Troubleshooting
JEM Regenerative Heat Exchanger (RHX) Water Wipe
JEMRMS Console Checkout
Making a documentary about life onboard the ISS
MATRYOSHKA-R. Bubble-Dosimeter Reader functional check.  Tagup with specialists
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops
On MCC Go Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) cartridge Ф1 start/end
R PAO event report preparation
Record Alfons Script
Record COP24 script
Record DPG Award Script
Record VDE Summit Script
Relocate SSC15 back to the JEM
SCENERY. Observation and photography using Photo Equipment
Stowage of Echo hardware
Uragan. Observations and photo (Task list)
VEG03 Change Fan Speed
Visual inspection and leak monitoring using US ULD Leak Detector in Soyuz 739 БО. Report to MCC
Water Recovery and Management (WRM) Waste Water Bus (WWB) Split
В3 Fan Screen Cleaning in DC1
СОЖ Maintenance

 