
Zebra Fish Muscle:  Gerst connected a water bag and a waste bag to the Aquatic Habitat water circulation unit and performed water exchange #6. The Zebra Fish muscle experiment asks if the atrophy of muscles under the condition of microgravity also occurs in Zebra Fish and why their atrophy occurs in the microgravity.
Cardio Ox (Human Research):  Wilmore, acting as the Crew Medical Officer operator, took return minus 15 days blood pressure and ultrasound measurements of subject Wiseman.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts.
Soyuz 39S Descent Drill:  Wiseman and Suraev prepared for their return by conducting a Soyuz descent drill. 39S is scheduled to return to earth with Suraev, Wiseman, and Gerst on November 10, 2014.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub:  Wilmore and Gerst performed EMU loop scrubs throughout the day as part of the periodic EMU maintenance plan. Along with the loop scrubs, water samples were collected before and after the scrub. The water samples are scheduled to return via 39S in November. During the loop scrubs, the Fan Pump Separator associated with EMU 3005 did not activate as expected. The Loop Scrub for EMU 3005 was deferred as a result. The Loop Scrub on EMU 3011 was completed nominally without issues. Ground teams are working on a troubleshooting plan for the EMU 3005 Fan Pump Separator.
57P Docking Clamps Installation:  Yesterday’s docking of 57P was completed as planned.  After capture, the Progress hooks were closed. However, in order to preserve life cycles on the DC1 hooks, those hooks were not commanded to close.  Instead, the docking clamps were installed by Samokutyaev today.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Crew Prep for TV Conference
TV PAO with the Winners of “Future of Strong Russia is in Cutting-Edge Technologies” (Ku + S-band)
KENTAVR fit check
IDENTIFIKATSIYA. Copy ИМУ-Ц micro-accelerometer data to laptop
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) – O2 High Pressure Bypass Configuration
Initiate EMU Cooling Loop Scrub
EVA – EMU Water Maintenance Dump and Fill
EMU – Cooling Loop Water Sample
Collecting condensate water samples from СРВ-К2М upstream of Gas-Liquid Mixture Filter (ФГС) to Russian Samplers – start
ТКГ 424 and DC1 Interface Leak Check
СВО-ЗВ & БРП-М water sampling to Russian drink bags
Pre-pack cargo items for return or disposal on ТК 713
Food Warmer Mod   [Deferred]
Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
DC1-СУ Transfer Hatch Opening
CARDOX – Experiment Ops
ISS HAM – HAM Radio Power up
Installing quick release screw clamps on DC1 side
ТКГ 424 (DC1) Air Sampling, deactivation, air duct installation
Photography of СтА docking probe trace on acquisition cone of DC1 passive assembly
CARDOX – Blood Pressure Operations
Downlink Docking Cone Surface Photos/Data Using OCA
PAO Event
De-installing ТКГ 424 (DC1) Docking Mechanism
OTKLIK. Hardware Check
USND2 – Ultrasound 2 Hardware Power Off
Zebrafish – Water Exchange 3
ARIL. Activation of ТБУ-В No. 02 thermostat for the Experiment
ТК 713 Descent Drill, Return Equipment List & Stowage Consultation.
ТКГ 424 (DC1) Transfer Ops
RGN REC-TNK – Remove depress hose for nominal operations
POLYGEN. Hardware transfer and stow
ARIL. Transfer of Bioecologia container, Setup and photography in ТБУ-В 02 at +29 deg C
BIOEMULSIYA. Hardware transfer from ТКГ and setup in ТБУ-В No. 04 at +4 deg C
CONYUGATSIYA. Hardware transfer and setup in ТБУ-В 04 at + 4 deg C
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) High Pressure Nominal Configuration
Treadmill Т2 Monthly Inspection
Start EMU Metox Regeneration

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Scan Testbed activation
UHF Activation/ Deactivation in support of Loop Scrub

