
Neuromapping:  On Saturday Kelly completed a NeuroMapping Neurocognitive test on a Human Research Facility laptop.  The Neuromapping experiment studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes any changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking; as well as measuring how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from those possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from crewmembers returning from a long-duration spaceflight suggests that movement control and cognition are affected in microgravity.
 
Sleep ISS-12 Actiwatch Download: Kelly downloaded the data from his and Kornienko’s SLEEP Actiwatches.  He then configured the watches for additional data collection.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity, and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness, to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Habitability:  Kelly documented his recent observations related to human factors and habitability for the Habitability investigation.  Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as near earth asteroids and Mars. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions can help spacecraft designers determine how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Journals: Kelly completed a Journals entry today. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used during astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparation for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) / FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2J:  Lindgren replaced the FLEX-2J Fiber Arm and the Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) fuel reservoir today as part of routine maintenance operations for the CIR, in support of the FLEX-2J investigation.  FLEX-2J studies the interactions of flames on the motion and ignition of millimeter-sized droplets. Results can provide fundamental insight into the physics of fuel burning, which improves computer models designed to reduce emissions and improve fuel consumption efficiency in space and on Earth.
 
Ras Labs-CASIS-ISS Project for Synthetic Muscle: Resistance to Radiation (Synthetic Muscle):  Yui took a set of historical photos of the synthetic muscle samples.  He then transferred the photos to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for downlink. The purpose of this investigation is to measure the effects of radiation on proprietary synthetic muscle materials in space and earth environments. Robots made of these materials could provide assistance to humans in space, enhance survivability of robots during deep space travel, and provide support in extreme radiation environments on Earth.
 
Cognition: Yui performed his Flight Day 103 session of the Cognition experiment today.  Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Overhead Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning:  Kornienko with assistance from Kelly has cleaned his Overhead CQ today. The activity included cleaning the intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors.
 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Crank Handle Screw Inspection:  Yui performed an inspection of the Adapter Screws inside the ARED Crank handle, and found that the screws were properly torqued.  Engineering teams requested this activity based on an investigation and photos following the replacement of the crank handle last year.
 
Columbus Solid State Drive (SSD) LAN Cable Connectors:  Kelly successfully adjusted misaligned SSD LAN cable connectors in order to overcome structural interference at the Columbus Starboard Endcone. In May, two Columbus Video Cassette Recorders (VCRs) on the Starboard Endcone were replaced with two newer design SSD recorders. However, the installation could not be completed at that time because of the misaligned connectors.  With the connector repair, ESA can now proceed with commissioning of the new recorders.  The new SSD recorders will provide additional recording capability without the use of Hi-8 tapes.
 
Fluids Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) Inspection:  Last week, the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) FCPA experienced an anomaly and was changed out.   Today, the crew performed an inspection on the faulty FCPA to check for leaks.  They found no evidence of fluid or leaks on the hardware, and packaged it for return and refurbishment.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Today, Kelly and Lindgren reviewed procedures associated with the upcoming P6 Return to Original Configuration (RTOC) EVA.  The EVA is scheduled for Friday, 06 November with hatch opening taking place at approximately 6:15am CST.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Battery Charge for Photo and Video Equipment (start)
WRS – filling of tank for recirculation system
SPRINT – Hardware Activation
Inflight CQ Maintenance
Installation of Cover Plates on SM Interior Panel 316 (Day 1) (Assistance)
WHC – Full Fill
SPRINT – Experiment Operations
MDCA – Work Surface Area Prep
ARED – Screws Re-Torque
Exercise Data Downlink via ОСА
CIR – Rack Doors Opening
Video Hardware Setup for Recording БД-2 Physical Exercises
CIR – Combustion Chamber Opening
On MCC Go БД-2 Test
MDCA – Hardware Replacement
URAGAN. Earth Imaging
SYN_MUSCL – Photography
Removal of Video Hardware after БД-2 Exercise Recording
SPRINT – Hardware Restow
Changeout of Batteries in Photo and Video Hardware in Charging Device
VCA2 camera set-up
Preparation for [РТ]-50-1М No.2 (А202) R&R – Hardware unstow, R/G review
Columbus – fixing of SSD LAN cable connectors
IDENTIFIKATSIYA. Transfer of ИМУ-Ц Measurements to the Laptop
HABIT – Video Recording
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
On MCC Go ISS Pressurization from Section 2 of DC1 Progress 428 Oxygen Supply System СРПК
WRS – filling of tank for recirculation system
CIR – Combustion Chamber Closure
HABIT – Narration
WRS – Water Samples Analysis
SPRINT – Closeout Operations
CIR – Rack Doors Closure
On MCC Go ISS Pressurization With Air from Section 2 of DC1 Progress 428 Oxygen Supply System СРПК (
VIZIR. Control Module Imaging
QD Tighetning between MRM2 and Progress 718
Hardware Setup for PAO
MATRESHKA-R. Monitoring of Lulin-5 Readings
Changeout of Batteries in Photo and Video Hardware in Charging Device
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event
JRNL – Journal Entry
PROBOY. RSE1 Operations
СОЖ Maintenance
PROBOY. Penetration Simulator Ops
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fluids Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) Inspection
Inventory of БД-2 Medical Hardware
TOCA – Data Transfer
Pre-EVA USOS Camera Prep
USOS EVA Procedures Review
PROBOY. Data Transfer and Downlink
IMS Delta File Prep
Battery Charge for Photo and Video Hardware
COGN – Experiment Session and Questionnaire
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Website and Social Media
ECON-M. Observations and Photography
URAGAN. Observations and Photography

 
Completed Task List Items

Lab Printer Swap [Completed over the weekend]
PMM Rack Front Stow Follow-up [Active]

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

EXT MDM Swap and EEPROM Refresh

 
