
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Kelly and Lindgren prepared for Friday’s EVA by reviewing Fluid Quick Disconnect (QD) training material, auditing and configuring EVA tools, and making changes to the ISS EVA Systems Checklist book and Cuff Checklist procedures.  Additionally, they installed Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBA) on Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) suits 3003 and 3010. Once installed, a checkout was performed to verify the glove heaters are functional and helmet cameras are receiving power.  Hatch opening for Friday’s P6 Return To Original Configuration (RTOC) EVA is scheduled for 6:15am CST.
 
Capillary Flow Experiment-2 (CFE-2):  Yui set up and initiated a handheld CFE-2 Vane Gap 1 experiment. Because liquids behave differently in space than they do on Earth, containers that can process, hold or transport them must be designed to work in microgravity. The CFE-2 furthers research into the control of liquid behavior aboard spacecraft through wetting and container geometry. Vane Gap experiments identify the critical geometric wetting conditions of a vane structure that does not quite meet the container wall – a construct used in various fluid systems aboard spacecraft such as fuel tanks, thermal systems and water processors for life support.  The results of these tests may be used to improve the capability to quickly and accurately predict how related processes such as passive separation of gases from liquids in the absence of gravity occur.
 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Status:  Yesterday afternoon, Yui performed routine maintenance on the WHC by preparing a new recycle tank for installation then performing a tank R&R.  Upon WHC activation, the crew observed irregular behavior associated with the Bad Pretreat Quality Light. The WHC has since been configured to store urine via internal tank (EDV). Ground teams are assessing a troubleshooting plan.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

JEMRMS Bus Monitor cable Setup
QD Training Review
RGN. WSTA Fill
IMAХ – Connecting to SSC
ISS Crew / SSIPC FD Conference
SPHERES – Data Downlink
HAM radio session from Columbus
CIR – Post-Experiment Hardware Stowage
CFE – MWA Setup
CFE – Preparation and Hardware Setup
SPHERES – Copy payload data to hard drive [Aborted]
CFE – Test Ops
USOS EVA Tool Configuration
Date and Time Synchronization on 6 RS photo cameras to the station time
SPHERES – Disconnect the USB from the SSC and stow [Aborted]
Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Swap
Video Footage of Greetings
REBA powered equipment test
USOS EVA Tool Configuration
CFE – Payload transfer into Ziploc bags
СОЖ Maintenance
SPRINT Exercise
USOS EVA Tool Audit
EMU – Printing Instructions
Preparation for comm check between СУБА Rate Sensor (ИУС) control sub-network user and Laptops RS3, RS2, RS1 (searching for equipment and r/g review).
Evening Work Prep
IMAX – Terminate Battery Charge
Psychological Evaluation Program (WinSCAT)
IMAX – Terminate Codex 512 GB Drive charge
On Board Training (OBT) ISS Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Computer Based Training (CBT)
IMAX – Power Down
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops / r/g 0471eu + 0471ru
Flight Director / ISS Crew Tagup
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ECON-M. Observation and Photography

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal System Commanding

 
