
Payloads
Round Robin – The crew performed a Sample Holder Exchange #2 for the Round Robin Experiment in preparation for a planned return on SpaceX-21 after a 30-day run time. The Round Robin – Thermophysical Property Measurement investigation provides researchers with a better understanding of how to measure liquid metal properties to revolutionize how process modeling can support design, flight qualification and production of advanced spaceflight systems.
Standard Measures – The crew performed the Saliva collection setup in support the of the Flight Day30 sample collections for the Standard Measures Experiment. The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.  These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Systems
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance – The crew completed this regularly scheduled maintenance to inspect X-Rotation Dashpots, cycle Main Arm through full range of motion, and grease ARED VIS Rails and Rollers and Upper Stop.
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Activation and Checkout – The Ground Team powered both C2V2 units in order to complete telemetry and command checkouts in preparation for the upcoming Space-X Crew-1 Mission. The C2V2 Comm Units are two fully redundant radios (C2V2 A and C2V2 B) that are used to communicate with visiting vehicles to the ISS. The Space-X Crew-1 Mission is currently scheduled to launch from Kennedy Space Center on November 14th and dock to the ISS on November 15th.
Food Intake Tracker (FIT) Updates – Over the weekend, updates were made to the FIT database in order to correct an on-going issue with crew experiencing trouble accessing the app.  Teams determined that the FIT database was corrupt due to issues within the data tables of old data.  Ground teams uplinked a new blank database, and in turn were able to restore the FIT app access. Previous entries were provided to grounds teams.  Crew is GO to use the FIT app under the new database.  
Broken Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Water Dispense Volume Knob – Crew reported a broken Water Dispense Volume Knob on the PWD. This knob is used to adjust the amount of water dispensed from PWD with each use.  PWD can continue to function with this knob broken, but will only be able to dispense the amount of water the knob was last set to.  Crew developed a temporary workaround, while the Ground Team is currently working on a long term solution.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Vacuum System (VS) Limit Configuration
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Activation
Communication and Tracking Backup Ku Comm Unit Activation and Configuration
Primary Power System (PPS) Longeron Shadowing Fault Detection, Isolation, and Recovery (FDIR) Inhibit [PLANNED]

