
Payloads
SERFE (Spacesuit Evaporation Rejection Flight Experiment): The crew partially installed the SERFE hardware into EXPRESS Rack 11B. Data cables were connected to EXPRESS Rack 6, and the SERFE was connected to the Waste Gas QD and to the initial CWC-Iodine supply bag. SERFE demonstrates a new technology to remove heat from spacesuits and maintain appropriate temperatures for crew members and equipment during space walks. The technology uses evaporation of water for cooling. The investigation determines whether microgravity affects performance and evaluates the technology’s effect on contamination and corrosion of spacesuit material.
Rhodium Space Rhizosphere: The crew removed Samples serial numbers (S/Ns) 0008 through 0011 along with Rhodium Science Temp Log S/N 0001 from ambient stowage and took documentary photos of each item ensuring the S/Ns were visible. The Rhodium Science TempLog was stowed for return. Soil Health in Space: Determination of Gravitational Effects on Soil Stability for Controlled Environment Agriculture (Rhodium Space Rhizosphere) examines the effects of spaceflight on the soil aggregates formed by fungi and bacteria. Recent studies have shown a connection between biological activity, aggregation formation, and the overall capacity of soils to sustainably produce nutritious food crops. A better understanding of fungal and bacterial structures and functions in soil could improve food production on Earth and in space. 
EML Batch 2 (Electromagnetic Levitator): The crew set the EML valves to a closed Helium and opened Argon configuration. The Batch 2 experiments aim to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. The patterns of the crystals resulting from transitions of liquids to solids is of substantial importance to processes in producing materials such as solar cells, thermoelectrics, and metal alloys.
Systems
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): The crew completed Max CEVIS today which is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. The test is performed every 90 days and upon the crew’s arrival and departure from the ISS.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Deactivation
Lab Vacuum System Leak Check
Node 3 CDRA Troubleshooting

