
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The crew exchanged the data hard drive and then setup Particle Trapping for Run #4. The Chamber was then cleaned and the video monitor was setup to document the de-installation of the hardware. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of “Complex Plasmas”: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics, and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas.
BioServe Protein Crystallography (BPC)-1: The crew used pipettes to mix varying viscosity solutions into the crystallization plates. BPC-1 seeks to demonstrate the feasibility of conducting protein crystal growth in real time onboard the ISS. Crewmembers add solutions to the hardware, observe the crystals that form and adjust for follow-on experiments. This approach gives scientists the ability to optimize crystal growth in microgravity instead of waiting for samples to return and then launching them again.
Time Perception in Microgravity: A crewmember performed the Time Perception experiment that utilized a head mounted display and headphones. A laptop program induces visual and audio stimuli to measure a subject’s response to spatial and time perception in a microgravity environment. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time is fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination.
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics: The crew reconfigured the LMM from ACE-T7 science to Biophysics-06 experiment science configuration. The crew cleaned up oil on ACE (Advanced Colloids Experiment) Module inside the LMM AFC, removed the ACE Module and LMM Control Base, configured LMM objective lenses, and installed the LMM Petri Base inside the LMM AFC. Proteins are important biological molecules that can be crystallized to provide better views of their structure, which helps scientists understand how they work.  Proteins crystallized in microgravity are often higher in quality than those grown on Earth. LMM Biophysics 4 examines the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity.
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPs) Inspection: Today the crew inspected the Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBAs), as well as the Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs). They ensured each item was in a useable configuration and fully functional. This routine inspection is scheduled every 45 days.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Detent Plate Adjust with Rope Check: Today the crew adjusted the ARED Detent Plates with ground team support to restore full functionality. The activity incorporated steps to assess the possibility of friction from the Cable Arm Ropes preventing successful two-point Detent Ball and Plate engagement.
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Checkout: Today, the crew worked with ground teams in order to successfully activate and checkout the C2V2 system in support of the Northrop Grumman-10 (NG-10) mission, which will utilize the C2V2 system during approach and capture. The test verified command capability from MCC-D (Dulles) and from on board via the Portable Computer System (PCS).  NG-10 is scheduled to launch on November 15, 2018.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


LSR Checkout [In Work]
C2V2 Checkout for Cygnus
BPC Plate Loading Support
LMM Biophysics Configuration Support

Three Day Look Ahead:
Saturday-Sunday, 11/10-11:
Payloads:


PK-4 Chamber Clean and stow, Data downlink and HD packing (ESA-RUS)

Systems: 

Housekeeping, Crew Off Duty

Monday, 11/12:
Payloads:


EML 2.3 Sample Chamber Install
VEG-03 Plant check and watering (NASA)
RR-8 Vial Adapter Bag Search (NASA)

Systems: 

EMU Resize
NG-10 Locker Preparation
Recycle Tank Drain with UPA Fill Drain Valve to EDV
ARED Cable Replacement

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Photo TV Camera Set Up For Radiator Inspection
Photo TV Port Radiator Image 1
СОЖ maintenance
HMS Tonometry Test Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
PK-4 data hard drives exchange
HMS Tonometry Test Subject
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-Cohesive Sedimentation Image Transfer
HMS Tonometry Test Stow
IMS Tagup (S-band)
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference (S-band)
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection
BioServe Protein Crystallography Maintenance Work Area Preparation
PK-4 Experiment Run 4/1
BioServe Protein Crystallography Plate Load S/N 02
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill [Aborted]
PK-4 Experiment Run 4/2
Audit of Disposable Covers for ГНШ-К-24 Low Noise Headsets
BioServe Protein Crystallography Plate Load S/N 04
PK-4 Experiment Run 4/3
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Troubleshooting Video Setup
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Detent Plate Adjust with Rope Check
Combustion Integrated Rack Upper Rack Doors Open
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Detent Troubleshooting Video Stow
Time experiment science
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold #4 Bottle Replacement
Combustion Integrated Rack Upper Rack Doors Close
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Extended Maintenance [Deferred]
PK-4 Chamber filling with Cleaning gas
PK-4 Video Monitor Deinstallation
24-hour ECG Recording (start)
PCS Laptop Relocate [Deferred]
Cygnus Crew PCS Command Panel Checkout via C2V2 without RF Transmission to Ground Site
VEG-03G Plant Check/Water
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
24-hour Blood Pressure Recording (start)
VEG-03G Plant Thin
LMM Biophysics Configuration
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) Biomolecule Sequencer Stow
Photo/TV Port Radiator Image 2
Photo TV Deactivation for Radiator Imagery
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
Charging of ESA Power Bank for Acceleration with AstroPi demonstration
EPO Gerst Flying Classroom 2 – Acceleration with AstroPi Recording
Record Big City Beats
Record Victoria University

 