
Payloads:
Actiwatch Plus:  Crewmembers doffed the Actiwatch Plus and stowed it in the Actiwatch Plus Kit. The Actiwatch is a waterproof, nonintrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. The device contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in nonvolatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Exploration Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS)-Toilet: A crewmember performed troubleshooting steps to recover a suspect Toilet pressure sensor. The Toilet System is an Exploration Tech Demo that has evolved into a permanent United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) system. The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS) and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) and Toilet operations.
Pilote:  A crewmember performed Pilote science runs to test the ergonomics of a multisensory interface for controlling robotic arms and spacecrafts. It is necessary to perform these trials in microgravity because performing the test on Earth would lead to the design of a workstation using terrestrial ergonomic principles that do not correspond to conditions experienced on a spacecraft in orbit. The Pilote investigation tests the effectiveness of novel control schemes for the remote operation of robotic arms and space vehicles, using virtual reality and a new class of user-machine interfaces based on haptics.
Polar:  Crewmembers transferred samples from Cold Stowage to Polar units using Ice Bricks and a Double Coldbag in preparation for Dragon departure. Polar is a Cold Stowage managed facility that provides transport and storage of science samples at cryogenic temperatures (-80ºC) to and from the ISS. Polar operates on 75 W supplied power and uses air cooling as its heat rejection method. Polar can accommodate up to 12.75 liters of sample volume and 20 lbm including sample support equipment.
Systems: 
Crew-2 Dragon Departure Preparations: The crew completed several activities in preparation for the upcoming Crew-2 departure. The crew completed On-Board Trainings (OBTs) to review Dragon departure procedures, transferred cargo to the vehicle, and prepared personal data for downlink to the ground. Crew-2 is tentatively scheduled to undock and return the Endeavor Dragon crew on November 7th.
LAB Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Manual Flow Control Valve (MFCV) Adjustment: Today, the crew used a Coriolis Flowmeter to adjust the MFCV of the Direct Current to Direct Current Converter Unit (DDCU)-1 rack to decrease ITCS flow through the rack. This is done as part of an effort to reallocate cooling resources for the LAB’s Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL). The ITCS provides equipment cooling, and heat rejection through a combination of water loops, and interface heat exchangers. 
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: Today, the crew set up the recycle tank to drain to a ЕДВ-У. Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, and repositioned the fill/drain valve to fill. The crew also swapped the ЕДВ in the offload ЕДВ spot of the UTS.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Portable Computer System (PCS) Reboot
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Leak Limits Set
Command and Control Software (CCS) Monthly File Downlinks
Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) Activation
Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Deactivation

