
Payloads
Plant Habitat-02 – The crew completed the Plant Habitat-02 Science Carrier Installation, which was previously partially completed. Photos of the entire Science Carrier quadrants and of the final configuration of the unit inside the Growth Chamber were taken. A water refill was also completed. Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants.
Spacesuit Evaporation Rejection Flight Experiment (SERFE) – The crew reviewed procedures for the SERFE installation and then performed a degassing of the Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-Iodine) bag in preparation for filling water from the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Supply line that will eventually be transferred to the SERFE unit to start the experiment run. SERFE demonstrates a new technology to remove heat from spacesuits and maintain appropriate temperatures for crewmembers and equipment during space walks. The technology uses evaporation of water for cooling. The investigation determines whether microgravity affects performance and evaluates the technology’s effect on contamination and corrosion of spacesuit material.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF) – The crew exchanged the used Unit Air Gas Bottle with a new bottle supplying air for the Electrostatic Levitation Furnace. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Systems 
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis – The ISS crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water. This test is used to determine if the drinking water is safe for crew consumption. 
Acoustic Monitor Battery Swap – The crew replaced the batteries in all 3 of the Crew-worn acoustic monitors that were set up and distributed to the crew onboard the ISS. The acoustic monitoring sessions gather data to characterize any changes to the acoustic environment throughout the station.
Completed Task List Activities:

IPad Flight Group 10 Velcro
iPad Flight Group 10 Deploy & Flight Group 9 Stow

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Columbus IMV Return Fan activation/deactivation
Supported Plant Habitat Science Carrier Installation #1
Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Activation [Planned this evening]

