
Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-7 (ACE-T7) Sample Configuration:  The crew configured LMM (Light Microscopy Module) for the ACE-T-7 science run.  The ACE-T-7 module was processed prior to this increment, and this run will allow investigators to observe the structures following longer-term evolution.  The experiment involves the design and assembly of complex three-dimensional structures from small particles suspended within a fluid medium. These “self-assembled colloidal structures” are vital to the design of advanced optical materials and active devices. In the microgravity environment, insight is provided into the relation between particle shape and interparticle interactions on assembly structure and dynamics.
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance: Reaching and Grasping (GRASP):  The crew successfully performed three versions of the GRASP quasi free-floating science session.  GRASP is intended to provide insight into how the central nervous system integrates information from different sensory modalities, encoded in different reference frames, to coordinate movements of the hand with objects in the environment.  Performed on the ISS, in conjunction with a series of experiments performed on the ground, GRASP explores the interaction between all of the various sensory cues.
Plant Hab-01 Science Carrier 2 Harvest:  The crew performed the harvest on the science carrier 2 plants.  Growth of the plants was initiated on September 18 and similar to the plants grown in science carrier 1, the plants grew more slowly than expected.  Although there was no real issue with the slower growth, only one of the two plant harvests was performed as a result.  The Plant Habitat-1 investigation compares differences in genetics, metabolism, photosynthesis, and gravity sensing between various Arabidopsis plant lines grown in space and on Earth. This investigation is expected to provide key insights on major changes occurring in plants exposed to microgravity.
Plasma Kristal-4 Experiment campaign 5:  The crew performed the familiarization session in preparation for the science run next week.  PK-4 is a scientific payload for performing research in the field of ‘Complex Plasmas’: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  On Thursday evening, Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body to perform a survey of the SPDM Latching End Effector (LEE) snare cables using an External High Definition Camera. They then maneuvered SSRMS and SPDM to approach and stow SPDM on the Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2).
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal System Commanding

Three Day Look Ahead:
Saturday-Sunday, 11/03-04:
Payloads: 

None

Systems: 

Housekeeping, Crew Off Duty

Monday, 11/05:
Payloads: 

BCAT-CS Camera Activity
HSRC Setup
P-Hab-01 Cleanup
PK-4 Preparation
Veg-03g Plant Check

Systems: 

HTV ROBoT and Departure OBT Sessions
HTV Smoke Detector Scavenge

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted. 

Making a documentary about life onboard the ISS
Observations and photo (Task list)
ECON-M. Observations and photo (Task list)
Visual inspection and leak monitoring using US ULD Leak Detector in Soyuz 739 БО. Report to MCC
Plant Habitat-01 Door Removal
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) weekly conference
AstroPi City Lights Pictures
Plant Habitat-01 Plant Harvest 2 Part 1
Audit of LF Signal Data Receiver (БПИ НЧ) and БИТС2-12 Devices
GRASP configuration change from seated to Quasi free floating
Precision Vertical Wide Angle Sight (ВШТВ) Checkout
Atmosphere Control System Nitrogen Oxygen Repress System Nitrogen Repress Part 1
Glaicer Ice Brick/Cold Block Retrieval
GRASP science performance in quasi free floating configuration
Plant Habitat-01 Plant Harvest 2 Part 2
Scheduled PUMA Test
JEM System Laptop Terminal Reboot
Plant Habitat-01 Harvest#2 of Set 1 Glacier Insertion
Glaicer Ice Brick/Cold Block Retrieval
Scheduled ВП-2 Pilot’s Sight Test
Plant Habitat-01 Plant Harvest 2 Part 3
GoPro Hero3 video hardware battery charge
Plant Habitat-01 Harvest#2 of Set 2 Glacier Insertion
Plant Habitat-01 Plant Harvest 2 Extra
PK-4 Experiment Campaign 5 – Familiarization
Plant Habitat-01 Harvest2 MELFI Insert
Plant Habitat-01 Plant Harvest 2 Part 4
СОЖ maintenance
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Photography of ТП228 dummy temperature sensors on the external surface of MRM2
Express Rack 9B RPS Cycle
Crew Choice Event (CCE) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
GoPro Hero3 video hardware battery charge
CCE Preparation
Crew Choice Event
GRASP stow
HTV General Luminaire Assembly (GLA) Scavenge
COLUMBUS Bay 1, 2, 3 restow
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Nitrogen Manual Valve Open
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
ACE-T7 Sample Configuration
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Termination

 