
Veg-03 Operations: The crew checked and photo documented the status of the plants in the Veggie facility, and evaluated the plant pillows to determine if additional watering is required.  The overall goal of Veg-03 is to further demonstrate proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows using ‘Outredgeous’ Red Romaine lettuce.  Future long-duration missions into the solar system, will require a fresh food supply to supplement crew diets, which means growing crops in space. Previous investigations focused on improving productivity in controlled environments, but the limited quarters of the space shuttle and ISS made it difficult to conduct large-scale crop production tests. Veg-03 expands on previous validation tests of the new Veggie hardware, which crew members will soon use to grow cabbage, lettuce and other fresh vegetables in space. Tests determine which types of microorganisms are present in space-grown cabbage, providing baseline data for future crop-growing efforts.  Behavioral health surveys assess the impact of growing plants on crew morale and mood.
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Maintenance: The OGS Inlet Deionizing (DI) Bed was removed and replaced successfully this morning.  The crew also began a series of activities to purge the Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) recirculation loop. This is designed to help flush Total Organic Carbons (TOC) and other potential contaminants from the recirculation loop prior to installing the new Hydrogen Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU), which is scheduled for tomorrow. The crew had issues mating a Quick Disconnect (QD) in the chain of hoses and was not able to flush all of the water from the system. Ground teams are currently assessing options for completing the flush. Additional time will be added to tomorrow’s plan to implement troubleshooting steps ahead of the scheduled replacement of the OGS Hydrogen ORU.
Orbital ATK (OA)-5 Cargo Operations:  The crew performed one hour of Cygnus cargo transfer operations today.  As of the last report the crew had completed 18 hours of cargo transfer with an estimated 8 hours remaining.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Deionization (DI) Bed R&R
SM Ventilation Subsystem Preventive Maintenance. Group C
Photography of windows No. 2, 13, 14 in SM, EV1, EV2 Hatch windows in MRM2
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Flush
OTKLIK. Sensor functional test and point of impact accuracy check.
Measuring CO partial pressure at Central Post using CSA-CP analyzer
Replacement of СО2 Gas Analyzer ИК 0501 Filters.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations
Flushing Water Supply System [СВО] Elektron-VM Gas-Liquid Mixture (ГЖС)
Imagery of Flushing Water Supply System [СВО] Elektron-VM Gas-Liquid Mixture (ГЖС)
Imagery Downlink of Water Supply System [СВО] Elektron-VM Gas-Liquid Mixture (ГЖС) Flushing via OCA
Progress 433 (DC1) Transfers and IMS Ops
Cygnus Cargo Operations Conference
Audit of Personal Hygiene Articles (СЛГ). Consolidation of Personal Hygiene Article for Priority Use
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection
Manufacturing Device Bed Re-install
VEG-03 Plant Photo
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Flush Teardown
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
49 Soyuz Wireless Station Support Computer (SSC) Connect

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Battery 4B3 reconditioning
OGS Flush

