
Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight (Energy): Today the subject performed day 10, which is the last day of the 11-day (Day 0 through Day 10) Energy investigation, by collecting ISS tap water samples form the Potable Water Dispenser, collecting a urine sample, and downlinking the data from the sense wear activity monitor. The Energy investigation measures an Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight, a crucial factor needed for sending the correct amount of the right types of food with space crews. Nine astronauts will be examined during exercise and rest cycles three months before launch, three months after arriving at space station and adapting to the space environment, and after return to Earth. Physicians will measure metabolic rates, urine content, and bone density to determine energy needs.
Miniature Exercise Device (MED-2):  Today crewmembers set up cameras in Node 3 and captured video from multiple views of the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) and MED-2 hardware, applied body markers, performed exercises and transferred the video for downlink.  The ISS’s exercise equipment is large and bulky, while the MED-2 aims to demonstrate small robotic actuators can provide motion and resistance for crew workout sessions, reducing the size and weight of exercise equipment for long-duration space missions. The MED-2 investigation is a system to test key technologies needed to develop space based exercise equi pment that may provide appropriate countermeasures to the adverse effects of microgravity. This technology is critical for the initial design and development of second and third generation Counter Measure Systems (CMS) hardware that is an order of magnitude lighter and smaller than existing ISS class of CMS hardware and that has significantly greater reliability. 
Microbial Tracking-2:  A 52S crewmember collected saliva samples in support of the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation today.  The Microbial Tracking series-2 continues the monitoring of the types of microbes that are present on the International Space Station (ISS). It seeks to catalog and characterize potential disease-causing microorganisms aboard the ISS. Crew samples from pre-flight, in-flight, and post-flight times in addition to environmental samples from ISS surface and air locations will be collected to analyze any associations between the microbial content of the samples, as well as potential health effects.
Fluids Science Laboratory (FSL): To test the Microgravity Vibration Isolation Subsystem (MVIS) the crew released the Facility Core Element (FCE) to allow it to free float within the FSL rack. This configuration is required to support upcoming microgravity sensitive experiments.  The Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) is a multiuser facility designed by the European Space Agency (ESA) for conducting fluid physics research in microgravity. It can be operated as a fully automatic or semiautomatic facility and can be controlled onboard by the International Space Station (ISS) crew or from the ground in telescience mode.
Lighting Effects:  A 52S crewmember completed a Sleep Shift session by tracking his daily sleep patterns and wakefulness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. 
Story Time From Space: A crewmember participated in the Story Time from Space investigation by reading “Notable Notebooks Scientists and Their Writings Read” on camera. The video recordings will be downlinked and used for educational purposes. Story Time from Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crew members read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crew members videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Prebreathe Hose Assembly (PHA) Quick Disconnect 26 (QD26) Repair:  Today the crew removed, aligned, and installed PHA QD26 to the mounting bracket in the Airlock. PHA QD26 was misaligned during corrective maintenance in 2009.  During this activity the crew removed PHA QD26 from the mounting bracket and inspected the Gamah Seal.  After inspection, it was determined that this seal did not need replacement.  Finally, they aligned the PHA QD and torqued it while attached to the mounting bracket.
Rack Swap in US Lab:  The crew swapped the Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) in the LAB1O5 location with the Crew Health Care System (CheCS) Rack in the LAB1D4 location.  This swap was in preparation for a new Water Storage System (WSS) to be built into the ZSR later next year.  During the swap, the CheCS Rack needed to be temporarily moved to Node 1.  A Hatch Seal inspection was performed for the Node 1 Forward and the Lab Aft hatches following the transfer the activities. The Hatch Seal inspections are required to verify no damage following the transfer of the CHeCS rack through these hatches to perform the rack swap.
Columbus Water On-Off Valve 8 (WOOV8) Troubleshooting:  The crew rotated the Expedite the Processing of Experiments to the Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 3 (ER3) in Columbus and temporarily installed a Test Connector for troubleshooting the status indication provided by the position sensor of the WOOV8.  Following the troubleshooting, it was determined that the incorrect status indication was due to a faulty sensor internal to WOOV8.
67 Progress (67P) Reboost:  Overnight, ground teams successfully reboosted the Station using thrusters on 67P.  Duration was 03:26, with a delta V of 0.45 m/s. 
Node 2 Forward Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Reconfiguration:  Today the crew completed the activity that was begun yesterday to modify the IMV at Node2 Forward.  The installed ducting to provide IMV flow into PMA-2 in preparation for future Visiting Vehicle dockings and installed a new IMV Grille Screen to provide easier cleaning of the Node 2 Overhead Port Alcove IMV Inlet. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Life On The Station Photo and Video
Roskosmos and social media features preparation
ECON-M. Observation and photography
Microbial Tracking-2 Body Sample Collection
ENERGY reminder
Microbial Tracking-2 Sample MELFI Retrieval Insert
Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry – Subject
ENERGY Diet Log of Breakfast
ENERGY Water Sample
Energy Urine Sample Collection
24-hour ECG Recording (termination)
Airlock Prebreathe Hose Assembly (PHA) Quick Disconnect 026
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Sensewear Activity Monitor Data Saving
Airlock Prebreathe Hose Assembly (PHA) QD026 Alignment
24-hour BP recording (terminate)
TIMER. Experiment setup and initiation of video recording
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Social Media Event
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Preparation for the experiment. Tagup with specialists
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Operator Assistance in Preparation for the Experiment
Columbus WOOV8 Pre-Gather
HAM VIDEO relocation out of Express Rack 3 rotation path
Express Rack 3 (COL1A1) rotation path cleanup
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment Ops on БД-2 Treadmill  (Individual strategy test) Tagup with specialists
COL ExPRESS Rack 3 Rack Rotate Down
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Close-out ops (Operator)
WOOV8 troubleshooting and WOOVs inspection
TIMER. Experiment Ops Video Termination and Cleanup
Earth Imagery from ISS Nikon Target Operations
Scheduled monthly maintenance of Central Post Laptop. Laptop log-file downlink via OCA. Tagup with specialists as necessary
ExPRESS Rack 3 Rack Rotate Up
Sensewear Activity Monitor Stowage
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Social Media Event
ESA Weekly crew conference
CONSTANTA-2. Cassette removal from ТБУ-В and setup on panel for 1-hour warmup
Columbus Bay1 restore
IMS Update
CONSTANTA-2. Preparation and Execution 5. Tagup with specialists
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill Part 3
Airlock Prebreathe Hose Assembly (PHA) Quick Disconnect 026
Polar 4 Tray Swap
SREDA-ISS. Preparation Steps and Observation Start. Tagup with specialists
Ham Video relocation after ER3 rotation
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
PAO Preparation
VEGGIE Facility Power Reset
FSL Facility Core Element release in preparation of scientific operations
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
СОЖ Maintenance
VEG-03 Plant Photo
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
LAB Rack Swap
PILOT-T. Photography of the Experiment Ops
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops. Tagup with specialists as necessary
LAB Rack Swap Assist
LAB Rack Tend
PILOT-T. Closeout Ops Tagup with specialists as necessary
Food Stowage Consolidation Pt 2
Cygnus HCP PCS CHECKOUT for BSP-A and TRX-A
VIZIR. Experiment Ops. Tagup with specialists
Story Time Book Notable Notebooks Scientists and Their Writings Read
Story Time Historical Photo Documentation
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
In Flight Maintenance External Multiplexer Demultiplexer (EXT MDM) Gather
SREDA-ISS. Closeout Ops
Hatch Seal Inspection

Completed Task List Activities

Veg 03 Pillow Watering

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


ISS Reboost
SDMS Data Dump

