
Cygnus NG-18 Launch: At 4:32 AM CT today, Cygnus NG-18 launched from the Wallops Flight Facility on an Antares 230+ rocket. NG-18 is scheduled to be captured by the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) at 4:05 AM CT on Wednesday, November 9th. NG-18 is transporting important science experiments, equipment, and crew provisions to the ISS.
Payloads:
Antioxidant Protection: The crew read the Big Picture Words (BPW) for the Antioxidant Protection experiment. The PROtection MEdiated by antioxidant nanoTEchnOlogy against neuronal damage in space (PROMETEO) (Antioxidant Protection) investigation proposes the use of biocompatible and biodegradable polydopamine-based nanoparticles to provide antioxidant protection to neurons undergoing exposure to altered gravity and cosmic radiation.
CARDIOBREATH: Bio-Monitor wearables were donned, and a calibration was performed in preparation for CARDIOBREATH measurements during exercise on Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS). Astronauts experience changes in their cardiovascular, respiratory, and musculoskeletal systems during spaceflight, which can affect their capacity to exercise and to maintain blood pressure when standing after return to Earth. Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (CARDIOBREATH) studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight. Results could provide a better understanding of the mechanisms of these adaptations on long-duration missions and support development of methods for assessing cardiovascular and respiratory effects on blood pressure before and after spaceflight.
Kubik: Kubiks 5 and 6 were connected to the Multipurpose Columbus Computer (MPCC) and portable supply units. Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator or cooler with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic microgravity investigations such as those using seeds, cells, and small animals.
Myotones: Blood sample collection hardware was setup in support of the Myotones investigation. The Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones) investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g. muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth as well as for future space missions.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The Sally Ride EarthKAM hardware components were setup in Node 2 for a week-long imaging session (mission 81). Not everyone can go to space, but everyone can see Earth from an astronaut’s perspective with the Sally Ride EarthKAM program. Thousands of students can remotely control a digital camera mounted on the ISS and use it to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges and other interesting features and phenomena. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the Internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view Earth from a unique vantage point.
Smartphone Video Guidance Sensor (SVGS): The SVGS LED Targets were installed onto Astrobee flyers and JEM rack fronts, and the ground team commanded Astrobee maneuvers. SVGS demonstrates the use of a photogrammetric vision-based technology for guidance, navigation, and control of a small spacecraft. Developed by NASA, the vision-based sensor computes the position and orientation vector of a target relative to a coordinate system attached to a camera in the host platform, in this case the ISS free-flying robot Astrobee. This demonstration consists of five maneuvers involving motion control and data capture for one, two, and three Astrobee robots.
TangoLab-2: Cards and cubes were removed from the TangoLab-2 facility and prepared the facility for return. TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable, general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: On Saturday, the crew configured EVA tools and performed an On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV).  During the OFV, the crew donned their Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) to ensure a proper fit before the upcoming EVA.Today, the crew temporarily stowed the Lower Torso Assembly (LTA) Stowage Bag and LTA Restraint Strap in the EMU Equipment bag and swapped EMU 3004 with EMU 3009 on the EMU Don-Doff Assembly (EDDA) in preparation for upcoming activities. They also reviewed procedures related to the ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep 1B EVA, which is currently scheduled for Tuesday, November 15th. The review consisted of the timelines, procedures, and tool configurations the crew will use. During this EVA, the crew will install the IROSA Modkit on the 1B Solar Array Wing (SAW) Mast Cannister.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: To support monitoring of the health of the ISS IMV system, a Velocicalc device was used to take measurements of air flow exiting outlets and entering inlets of the Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM). In addition to flow rate measurements, the crew inspected the NOD3A2-11 inlet vent.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

ER-11B RS232 Troubleshooting
SVGS Test Operations Support

