
Payloads:
ACME (Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments):  A crewmember performed the second part of configuration for Flame Design part 2 by replacing two ACME controllers and setting the CIR Valve Timers to limit oxygen flow.  The ACME project is a set of six independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR).  ACME’s primary and secondary goals are (1) improved fuel efficiency and reduced pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth, and (2) spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack):  A crewmember replaced the Manifold #2 CIR High Percentage Oxygen Bottle with a new bottle containing 85% O2 and 15% N2. The CIR Manifold #4 Bottle was also replaced with a new bottle containing 100% C2H4.  The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel, and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Touching Surfaces:  A crewmember performed touch operations for each Touch Array and reported the data via the EveryWear application.  Previous space research conducted during short-term flight experiments and long-term environmental monitoring on board orbiting space stations (such as MIR or the International Space Station) suggests that the relationship between humans and microbes is altered in the crewed habitat in space.  This interdisciplinary project Touching Surfaces aims to investigate novel, laser-structured antimicrobial surfaces onboard the ISS.  The realistic testing of the tailor-made nanostructured antimicrobial surface in space allows for the determination of the most suitable design for antimicrobial surfaces for terrestrial applications such as public transportation and clinical settings, as well as future human space mission and habitation design.
Systems: 
Toilet Stall Fitcheck: Today, the crew performed a fitcheck of the handrail offset bracket on the port side wall of the Toilet Stall. This was due to concerns of the handrails being in the ARED Operational Worksite and very close to the dynamic envelope. As part of the fitcheck the crew performed ARED sweep tests and took measurements at each handrail placement.
Crew Dragon Tablet Sync and Stow: The crew charged and synced their SpaceX provided iPads and ensured the iPads were able to connect to both the onboard CrewNet and the newly installed CloudNet. This sync also updated emergency deorbit data as well as other data from SpaceX using CrewNet. Upon completion of the sync and charging, the crew stowed the tablets.
Air Quality Monitor (AQM) Inspect: The crew performed an inspection of the AQM2 to assess the airflow going in to the electronics cooling fan by comparing the unit to AQM1. In early October, BME observed the case temperature of AQM2 was unusually high and software displayed a temperature error. At that time, the crew cleared any fan blockages. Today’s inspection was to verify no additional impacts to the hardware from the blockage and runs at elevated temperatures.  The AQM is part of the Environmental Health System (EHS) as an Intravehicular Activity (IVA) atmospheric monitor that is used to detect and measure Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) onboard the International Space Station (ISS).
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) In Flight Maintenance (IFM): As part of regularly scheduled preventative maintenance, the crew performed a manual WHC flush tank fill.  By using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as the burp, they depressurized the flush water tank and water valve block to protect the dose pump. This pump is critical as it injects the pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Dragon Wakeup Checkout Ground Support
FPMU Deactivation
CIR Rack Bottle Exchange Ground Support

