11-06-2011November 06, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/06/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – Crew off duty.    Ahead:  Week 8 of Increment 29 (three-person crew)   After wakeup, FE-4 Volkov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection. CDR Fossum checked the running BCAT-6 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-6)-Phase Separation experiment for camera & flashlight battery charge and again 8 hrs later at midday and before sleeptime.  The Nikon D2Xs camera with EarthKAM software running with the Intervalometer on SSC-18 is taking automated flash photography.       [The camera is running for a total of 7 days, taking one photo each hour of Sample 2 (since 11/2).  Camera battery change and Intervalometer restart is done three times a day.  Objective of BCAT-6-Phase Separation: to gain unique insights into how gas and liquid phases separate and come together in microgravity.  These fundamental studies on the underlying physics of fluids could provide the understanding needed to enable the development of less expensive, longer shelf-life household products, foods, and medicines.] Sergey Volkov conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.  This included the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow, as well as the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s & FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time & “On” durations for calldown.       [SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers]. In COL (Columbus Orbital Facility), FE-5 Furukawa made room in front of the HRF-2 (Human Research Facility 2) Rack location at bay A4, then set up the equipment for his 4th and final ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session starting tomorrow, initializing two Actiwatch “Spectrum” units and formatting two HiFi CF cards.  Satoshi’s 2nd and final ICV Echo Scan session will then follow on 11/10. FE-4 & FE-5 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) on today’s schedule, via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Satoshi at ~4:30am, Sergey at ~6:10am EST. Mike Fossum has a PSC (Private Special Conference) on his schedule for 2:30pm. The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-4/2x), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5). Tasks listed for Sergey Volkov on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –Continuing the preparation & downlinking of more reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of bio-luminescent glow of high-production zones in the Eastern Central Atlantic Ocean, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop,Conducting the daily inspection of the running Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse, verifying proper watering of the KM A32 & A24 root modules, andAnother ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop. No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today. 