11-07-2009November 08, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/07/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday –light-duty day for the crew.   FE-1 Suraev did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which he had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters tonight at bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   The crewmembers performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]   Suraev also did the periodic checkup behind ASU panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.   As part of the house cleaning, Suraev & FE-3 Romanenko conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning on fan screens, Group A, in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 & FS9).   In addition, Roman completed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM and FGB by cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.   Later, Maxim performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   At ~7:50am EST, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.   After last night’s station configuration changes for a possible decrewing due to the threat of an overnight collision with Object 80908, which included USOS (US Segment) hatch closures, FE-5 Williams reconfigured the ITCS (Internal Thermal Control) rack jumpers in the US Lab to nominal.     [The contingency preparations were essentially those normally used for Soyuz relocation during three-crewmember station occupancy.  Jeff today jumpered the racks in the forward endcone and at the LAB1P3 location from LTL (Low Temperature Loop) back to the Lab MTL (Medium Temperature Loop), i.e., single loop configuration.  During yesterday’s ITCS preparation for the decrewing, the LAB1D1 MTL return QD (quick disconnect) leaked when Jeff tried to demate it (less than 1% was lost from the accumulator.).  This happened again during several subsequent attempts.  The LAB1D1 rack was left unconnected to LTL, the usual uncrewed precaution.  The Lab endcone and P3 racks were properly connected to LTL.  Engineers are planning forward action for the QD.]   CDR De Winne performed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC laptops.   After several days of (successful) performance testing of the U.S. CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly), FE-1 Suraev re-activated the Vozdukh CO2 scrubber of the Russian SOA Atmosphere Revitalization Subsystem, checking BVK1,2 valve group operation.   Nicole Stott filled out her regular weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]   Jeff Williams restowed the ISS Leak Kit, used to check the Node-1/PMA-3 hatch for hermeticity, at its nominal location in PMA-1 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 1).   FE-4 Bob Thirsk performed two EPO (Education Program Operations) segments as VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) tasks, leading off with a demo of CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from the ISS) activities, for which Bob configured CCISS hardware and recorded a three-minute video. CCISS equipment and the HRF Rack in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) remained unpowered during the demo & narration.  [There are several cardiovascular changes that result from long-duration exposure to a near-weightless environment.  The heart muscle that has not had to work as hard can get weaker without regular exercise.  Most importantly though, the blood vessels have not had to constrict in the same way they do on Earth.  Normally, the blood pressure or “baro”-receptors detect changes in blood pressure as we change posture and they stimulate the blood vessels, especially in the lower part of the body, to contract and the heart to beat faster.  This reflex mechanism is not required in space.  The CCISS project attempts to determine precisely why the baroreceptors and other aspects of the cardiovascular system are less efficient after long-duration space flight.]   For the second VolSci segment, the Canadian flight engineer used the G1 camcorder to record video of his demonstrating the Radi-N protocol.     [10-30% of space radiation inside the ISS is caused by neutrons, primary ionizing particles, colliding with physical matter and can cause serious damage to internal organs since, not carrying a charge, they can penetrate deep.  Researchers at CSA (Canadian Space Agency), Moscow’s IBMP (Institute of Biomedical Problems) & RSC-Energia have devised an ingenious study called Radi-N to measure the neutron radiation levels on the ISS,- using bubble detectors, i.e., test tubes with a clear polymer gel which retains bubbles created by the contact of a neutron with a droplet of superheated liquid.  The number of bubbles in the gel is proportional to the amount of neutron radiation, and an automatic reader is used to count the bubbles and calculate the radiation dose.]    In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-5 Williams continued his support of the MS (Marangoni Surface) equipment for ground-controlled operation of the MI (Marangoni Inside) convection experiment.     [Today, Jeff connected IPU (Image Processing Unit) user video cables between FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility) and the IPU.  Later, Jeff removed the experiment cover plate, removed the P12 load connector at the FPEF (connected yesterday) and closed the cover plate.   Background:  In microgravity, fluids react differently to stresses when compared to the same stresses on Earth.  Understanding the responses to the stressors allows for improved fluid flow models to be designed.  Mass transfer on or in a liquid due to surface tension differences is called the Marangoni Effect (which, for example, stabilizes a soap film).  The Marangoni convection experiment in the FPEF examines fluid tension flow in micro-G:  first, a liquid bridge of silicone oil is formed into a pair of disks.  Then, using temperature differences imposed on the disks, convection is induced causing the silicone oil to move and transition through different types of flows because of its fluid instability: successively from laminar to oscillatory, chaos, and turbulence flows as the driving force increases.  The flow and temperature fields are observed in each stage and the transition conditions and processes are investigated.]   CDR & FE-5 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Jeff at ~10:30am, Frank at ~3:20pm EST.   The crew performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), T2 treadmill (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).   Later, Frank transferred the exercise data files to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  WRM Update:  A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked last night to the crew for their reference, updated with yesterday’s CWC (Collapsible Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (21-0028E) lists 77 CWCs (~1,734.3 L total) for the four types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (64 CWCs with 1,350.1 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 158.8 L for flushing only due to Wautersia bacteria & 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 2. potable water (8 CWCs with 323.1 L, of which 23.0 L (1 bag) are off-limit due to Wautersia) and 128.3 L (3 bags) good for contingency use, 3. condensate water (3 CWCs, empty), 4. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 61.1 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  Conjunction Update:    Preparations for a possible collision with Object 80980 proved unnecessary (and ran into a snag with an ITCS coolant connector, see above).  By ~7:00pm EST last night, NASA FCT (Flight Control Team) had received two updates, from two different sensor sources, which were consistent with each other and with previous tracking such that the PC (Probability of Collision) had dropped below the actionable threshold.  FTC stood down from planning to put the crew in the Soyuz vehicles.  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-One -- Week 4)  3-D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    “Bob, thanks for trying to lighten Sample 6 images on Thursday.”  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.   BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    On 10/20-21 Jeff’s first session was completed.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    “Bob, Nicole, Frank: your *final* BISE sessions are hard scheduled for next week. The team looks forward to working with you at that time.”   BISPHOSPHONATES:   “Bob, thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Your next session is scheduled for 11/9.  Jeff, thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Your next session is scheduled for 11/8.”   CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    “Thank you, Frank, for starting your CARD session.  All the PFS rebreathe data is looking good.”  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:   “The 63-day long experiment started on 9/10.  The seedlings in the PEU units are growing well. The seeds seem to be growing in the pod.  ELT power cycle, air sampling and LED check was performed by Nicole.  The final harvest is now planned for 11/11-12.”  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Complete.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial 2 (JAXA):   Completed.  Commercial 3 (JAXA):   Completed.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    No report.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    The rack is continuously active in support of the Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility (PCDF) experiment. EDR is providing power/data and temperature control (via cooling loop) to PCDF.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    No report.   EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):    “Jeff:  Thank you for completing the EPO-Eye in the Sky-Demo.  We will soon receive the video to review and implement into education projects.  We look forward to completing more demos on orbit.  Thanks for your time and dedication to education.”  EPO LES-3 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):  The sample was transferred to MELFI.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   Additional sessions are being scheduled due to PI request.  These sessions will improve the photo moon data.  The next opportunity for additional sessions is 11/14.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):  “No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  EuTEF (European Technology Exposure Facility):   With landing of 17A on 9/11, EuTEF platform was returned to the ground.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   “Thank you, Frank, for completing the FOAM-STABILITY runs as Voluntary Science.”    FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory):  MMA measurements performed to support Flywheel check-out.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):   No report.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    “Bob, Nicole, and Jeff:  As you can imagine, the ICV team was disappointed when the Ultrasound failed during Jeff’s FD30 echo.  Fortunately, the failure didn’t occur until the majority of the objectives for the session were complete.  It is important to emphasize that the Integrated Cardiovascular experiment was designed in a modular fashion to answer several critical questions regarding changes in cardiovascular function during spaceflight.  While our ability to determine the time course of cardiac atrophy during the flight will be severely impacted by the loss of in-flight Ultrasound data, a number of objectives, such as those related to arrhythmias, will be affected to a lesser extent or not at all.  For example, even without in-flight Ultrasound data, we will still be able to quantify changes in cardiac mass that result from long-duration spaceflight using data collected with both MRI and echo pre- and post-flight which is a very important objective of the study.  A recovery plan for the Ultrasound is in work which may or may not be in time to obtain the last on-orbit Echos planned for Bob and Nicole; however, regardless of how and when the situation with the Ultrasound is resolved, we plan to proceed with in-flight ambulatory monitoring sessions for all of you as well as all post-flight BDC.  We want you to know that your continued participation is both worthwhile and greatly appreciated.”   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:  No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    “Started setup. This is a four-day continuous operation to start UVP experiment from Week 5. Thank you for the quick work.”  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    System checkout is ongoing.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):   Postponed because of sample cassette failure.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MDS (Mice Drawer System):   “Ciao a tutti!  The MDS teams in Italy and the USA are happy to report that we’ve experienced a relatively nominal week these past seven days.  Most important is that the three mice appear healthy and robust and that the facility is operating nominally.  Thank you Nicole and thank you Bob for the work you both continue to do on our behalf.  We have reached the date which brings us to about 75% of our mission and, overall, we have many successes.”  Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE (Materials ISS Experiment):  Ongoing.  Moon Photography from ISS (JAXA EPO):   No report.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory):    “Processing of SCA CETSOL#4 was performed on 11/05, all teams are very happy with a successful first run, and are eager to analyze the processed SCA once returned on ULF3.”   MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY:    No report.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    17 Area Dosimeters deployment was completed on 9/14 to start radiation monitoring on JPL and JLP.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    PCG samples were returned by Soyuz 18S and transported to JAXA.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):   RadSilk experiment has started.  Sortie sample (launch control sample) was returned by 17A.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “Jeff, thank you for your continued participation in Reaction Self Test!”   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):   (from CSA): “Bob, the accelerometer head in MSG supporting SODI operations continues to provide interesting data and fuels discussions within the Canadian science team supporting IVIDIL. We have completed an analysis tool that allows for filtering the low frequency contribution to the g_rms data. We look forward to sharing these results with the science team over the next few days. The accelerometer is powered off for this week’s activities as power is required to support other research racks. It will be back on next week. Have a nice weekend.”  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    “Avionics Air Flow was stopped for 1 min to check its effect on SCOF interferometer fringe movement.  We are very grateful to Jeff for getting ready for the task before time. (It was an activity closely related with ground activity, so it was much appreciated).”   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Nominal.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):   “All, thanks for completing your first week of sleep logging this increment.  The data will be downlinked on 11/30.”  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):    “Jeff, thank you for performing your first SLAMMD run this week.”  SMILES (JAXA):    System checkout is ongoing.  Observation mode check out was done on 10/9 and could detect ozone (O3), hydrogen chloride (HCl)  and Chlorine oxide (ClO) with high resolution.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in. Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):     Sun observation window started on 10/15 and ended on 10/28.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):   No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.  SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):   No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):     No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    VLE-1 completed.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):    Through 11/4, the ground has received a total of 12,254 frames of ISS-21 CEO imagery for review and cataloguing.  “We have not been able to confirm your acquisition of any additional frames of our CEO target requests since last week.  Please feel free to let us know if there is any additional information or feedback we can provide you to help acquire our targets.  A two-frame mosaic of your recent views of the city of Arequipa, Peru and the symmetrical, cone-shaped stratovolcano, El Misti will be published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website this weekend.  The mosaic nicely illustrates the natural hazard of the proximity of large urban areas to active, dangerous volcanoes.  Several Latin American cities like Arequipa continue to develop rapidly today despite this clear environmental risk.  Thanks for your fine views of this area.”   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Kerguelen Island, S. Indian Ocean (this glaciated and volcanic archipelago is located in the far south Indian Ocean nearly 2,000 miles southeast of the island of Madagascar.  Of primary interest is photography for monitoring of the rarely photographed ice field and glaciers located on the western end of the main island.  As ISS approached from the west at midday, the crew should have found this target at nadir under partly cloudy skies), Dili, East Timor (Timore Leste) (this capital city of 150,000 is located on the NE coast of the island of Timor in the SE part of the Indonesian Archipelago.  It is dry season and this ISS pass was in mid-afternoon light under clear skies.  As the station approached from the SW, the crew was to look for this small coastal city), Jakarta, Indonesia (the Indonesian capital of almost 9 million is located on the north coast and near the western end of the island of Java in the southwestern part of the Indonesian Archipelago.  As ISS approached from the SW, partly cloudy conditions were expected during the mid-afternoon.  Looking for this sprawling coastal city just to the right of track), All Saints Bay, Salvador, Brazil (HMS Beagle Site:  All Saints Bay is an inlet of the Atlantic Ocean on the east coast of Brazil.  It provides a protected harbor for the city of Salvador located on tip of a peninsula at the entrance to the bay.  On February 28, 1832 the Beagle anchored in All Saints Bay.  Charles Darwin spent a few days exploring the nearby tropical rain forests.  ISS approached the Brazilian coast obliquely from the SW at mid-morning with partly cloudy weather expected), and Iquique, Chile (HMS Beagle Site:  The Beagle arrived at Iquique on July of 1835.  Darwin noted the "the town contains about a thousand inhabitants and stands on a little plain of sand at the foot of a great wall of rock ...".  As of 2002 Iquique was reported to have a population of 216,419.  It has one of the largest duty-free commercial port centers of South America.  Fair weather is expected for this mid-afternoon pass approaching from the SW.  Looking right of track along the coast for this city; it was low-contrast and situated at the base of a 1600-foot escarpment).  