
Cygnus NG-18 Arrival: At 4:21 AM CT this morning, the crew successfully captured Cygnus NG-18 using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). Cygnus was installed at the Node 1 Nadir port, and bolt loading was completed at 7:55 AM CT. An external survey of the vehicle was performed by the ground prior to berth to assess the configuration of the vehicle and the undeployed solar array. The crew then performed leak checks and vestibule outfitting prior to ingress. After photographing the arrival cargo, the crew began cargo transfer operations, which will continue through the rest of the week. 
Payloads:
Biological Experiment Laboratory in Columbus (BioLab): A Biolab Reference Experiment Container was removed from the BioLab facility. The BioLab is a multi-user research facility located in the Columbus module. The facility is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): The CBEF backup configuration cables were connected to the CBEF Temperature Controller and Junction Box. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility; it is an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
OVOSPACE: The NanoRacks Module-OVOSPACE was installed into NanoRacks Mainframe Alpha facility.  How microgravity influences ovarian cell (Theca and Granulosa) maturation and development is an open question and a scarcely investigated issue. The Modulation of Granulosa and Theca Cells Activity in Microgravity: Consequences for Human Health and Reproduction (OVOSPACE) investigation studies how the microgravity environment can impair ovary function and the physiological development of living beings. Given the objectives of human colonization of the Moon (as such recognized by the Artemis program), this task assumes a critical importance in planning future programs of human settlement in space.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The EarthKAM camera was reconfigured with an 85mm lens. Not everyone can go to space, but everyone can see Earth from an astronaut’s perspective with the EarthKAM program. Thousands of students can remotely control a digital camera mounted on the ISS and use it to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges, and other interesting features and phenomena. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the Internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view Earth from a unique vantage point.
Systems:
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA): Today, the crew rotated the Oxygen Generation System (OGS) rack to access and manually open the Lab Port H2 vent valve. After the crew opened the valve, the ground activated OGA for oxygen production. The OGA, which is part of the Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS), produces oxygen via electrolysis using iodinated water from the Water Processing Assembly (WPA).
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Regenerative ECLSS OGS Activation
MSS Operations for Cygnus Capture and Berth
Node 1 CBM Bolt Loading
Cygnus/Node 1 Pressurization and Leak Check
Cygnus Configuration for Attached Operations
Crew Dragon Endurance System Checkout

