
Zebra Fish Muscle:  Gerst connected a water bag and a waste bag to the Aquatic Habitat water circulation unit and performed water exchange #7. The Zebra fish muscle experiment asks if the atrophy of muscles under the condition of microgravity also occurs in zebrafish and why their atrophy occurs in the microgravity

Cardio Ox: Wilmore, acting as the Crew Medical Officer operator, took return minus 15 days (R-15) blood pressure and ultrasound measurements of subject Gerst.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. 
Body measures:  Gerst and Wiseman set up cameras and equipment to collect calibration data, body pose photographs, circumference measurements, Neutral Body Posture video and then transferred photographs and videos to the HRF folder for downlink. This study will involve collecting anthropometric data (body measurements) using digital still and video imagery and a tape measure to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments from astronauts for pre-, post-, and in-flight conditions. 
Electromagnetic Levitation (EML):  Gerst installed the EML sample chamber onto the EML experiment module front panel in preparation for the final commissioning and checkout.  The EML provides for containerless processing of liquid metals in a micro-gravity environment and precise measurement of their thermo-physical properties.  
 Ocular Health:  Wiseman acting as crew medical officer (CMO) set up Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) hardware and software and performed eye exams on Wilmore using the OCT Laptop.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
SPRINT:  Wiseman set up the Portable Pulmonary Function system (PFS) power, data, front panel, gas connections and set-up the Mixing Bag System (MBS) in preparation for VO2max and ultrasound sessions later this week.  Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Biological Rhythms 48 hour:  Wiseman concluded the second and final 24 hour measurement, removed the Digital Walk Holter electrocardiogram (ECG) and Actiwatch Spectrum equipment from his body and copied the Digital Walk Holter ECG data to Medical Laptop. The objective of this study is to examine the accurate circadian variation of cardiac autonomic function by space flight. The crew will wear an Actiwatch for 96-hour and an electrocardiograph (ECG) for 48-hour. 
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle school students (EarthKam):  Russian crew member Samokutyaev performed a lens exchange, configuring the EarthKam camera with a 180mm lens. With this camera lens exchange complete, middle school students will continue with imaging sessions. 
39S Crew Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review:  Samokutyaev, Serova, and Wilmore reviewed the General Instructions section of the ISS Emergency Book.   Priorities during an emergency response include safety of the crew followed by achieving a safe configuration of the ISS. To meet those priorities, the review covers crew accountability, escape vehicle access, maintenance of Soyuz configuration, ISS CDR Responsibility, procedure strategy and intent, communication and coordination.  In addition, the crew reviewed instructions for specific emergency cases such as Fire, Rapid Depress, and Toxic Atmosphere. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Morning Inspection. Laptop RS1(2) & RSS2 Reboot / r/g 1009, step 1
SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test
MORZE. Bioimpedance analysis using SPRUT-2 / r/g 7075
HRF – Generic Sample Operations
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Audio Dosimeter Preparation
EDV Refill from ATV5 WDS tank
MORZE. Psychophysiological Evaluation: Tsentrovka, SENSOR,  Kettell, SUPOS, & Strelau Test / r/g 7075
CARDOX – Preparation Steps and Hardware Setup
HRF Urine Sample Collection
BLR48 – Experiment Ops
CARDOX – Experiment Ops
SPRINT-PPFS – Equipment Setup
BODYM – Experiment Ops
CARDOX – Blood Pressure Operations
ТК 713 IRIDIUM Phone Charging
Symbolic Activity / r/g 7065
ТК 713 Return Cargo Stowage Ops / r/g 6997
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review
RGN-REC TK – Transfer and Replacement
Zebrafish – Water Exchange 7
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) No. 9 for Elektron
MORZE. Psychophysiological Evaluation: Strelau Test / r/g 7075
EML – Sample Chamber Valve Handling
HMS Defibrillator Inspection
AMINE – Screen Cleaning
Inventory of SKK packing covers (in FGB and DC1) / r/g 7086
WSTA – Fillup. Transfer EDV-U to UPA WSTA for processing
EKAM – Camera lens replacement
OCT Exam, Subject
RGN REC-TNK – Remove depress hose for nominal operations
Start EMU Metox Regeneration

Completed Task List Items

T2 snubber bracket torqueing
IMAX ops review
EPM Locker Stowage Clean

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration Initiation
Lab CDRA Activation 

