11-08-2010November 08, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/08/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       Underway: Week 7 of Increment 25.   At day’s begin, FE-1 Kaleri conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Alex again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]    After breakfast, FE-3 Kelly started his 4th weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.   His commensurate overnight fast started last night.      [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.]     CDR Wheelock worked in Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), performing regular service on the JAXA MI IPA (Marangoni Inside / Image Processing Unit) by removing & replacing 5 HDs (Hard Disks) of the VRU (Video Recording Unit),- #1060, #1061, #1062, #1063, #1064.      [The replaced VRU disks were put in a Ziploc bag for return to SSIPC (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center/Tsukuba).]   Afterwards, the CDR started another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.     [This was the 39th session with the GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC(Station Support Computer )-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware],   Alex Kaleri set up the new Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal) with its electromagnetic unit and replaceable container for another run and initiated operation.  The hardware was later disassembled and stowed, and the video/camcorder footage downlinked.      [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]   FE-2 Skripochka & FE-5 Yurchikhin reviewed the individual tasks of their EVA-26 on 11/15 and continued preparations for the spacewalk and the dry-run exercise on 11/12, today focusing on checkouts of Orlan-MK spacesuits #4 & #5 and the BSS Interface Units in PkhO (Transfer Compartment) & DC1 (Docking Compartment).       [BSS activities included verification that portable caps are installed on the fluid umbilicals, Orlan depressurization tools are tethered in PkhO & DC1 and custom wrenches for the BK-3M O2 tanks are available in PkhO & DC1.  The Orlan and BSS cooling loops were “degassed” in the DC1 and the BSS loops in PkhO.  Replaceable components installed on the Orlans were the primary BK-3M tanks, batteries in the BRTA radio telemetry units, LP-9 LiOH canisters for the dry-run exercise, moisture collectors, FOR filters and the Valsalva Eustachian tube-clearing devices.]   Scott Kelly continued his support of the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment), first reviewing procedures for the CFE VG1 (Vane Gap 1) experiment, ops which are quite different than the ICF (Interior Corner Flow) ops he performed previously, then powering up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and setting up the hardware, i.e., unstowing, preparing the MWA (Maintenance Work Area), securing the hardware on the MWA, and positioning the HD camcorder.  Scott then conducted VG1 fluid test runs, covered by realtime video for POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center).  About 3 hrs later, FE-3 shut the experiment down again.     [CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  VG is one of three CFE experiments, the others being ICF and CL (Contact Line).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]   FE-6 Walker had ~2h for consolidating payload items in the ISS, relocating hardware to make ops and stowage more efficient.     [Relocated were items in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and US Lab, plus some items were moved from JPM to the Lab.]    As a standard task for each Increment, Shannon took POSSUM (Payload On-orbit Still Shots for Utilization and Maintenance) digital photography of all US payload racks which had undergone changes since the last POSSUM shoot, to document their current configurations.  The imagery was then stored on SSC-15 for downlink.     [This included:  in the Lab – ER1 (EXPRESS Rack 1), ER2, ER6, MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), MELFI2 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 2) & WORF (Window Observation Research Facility); in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) – HRF1 (Human Research Facility 1), HRF2, ER3 & MARES (Muscle Atrophy Research and Exercise System); and in JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) – ER4 & ER5.  POSSUM is a regular payload photo activity that obtains formal electronic situational still shots of any subrack & locker payload that has been moved or reconfigured.]    Later, Shannon conducted the periodic inspection of the PEPs (Portable Emergency Provisions), checking PFEs (Portable Fire Extinguishers, PBAs (Portable Breathing Apparatus), EHTKs (Extension Hose Tee Kits) and QDMA (Quick-Don Mask Assembly) harnesses.    CDR Wheelock performed the periodic module hatch seal inspection, today taking ~45 min for the hatches at Node-3 starboard, Node-1 port, Airlock IV (intravehicular) & Lab aft.   Doug also worked on the WRS (Water Recovery System) in the Lab, supplementing the WPA WWT (Water Processor Assembly / Waste Water Tank) with stored water from a CWC (Contingency Water Container, #1059), emptying it (~140 minutes).     [The task requires assembling, connecting & activating the FTP (Fluid Transfer Pump), powered from ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6), to transfer condensate to the Waste Water Bus.  Transfer duration depends on storage bag quantity (0.5 L/min).]   Wheels had ~2h for auditing/inventorying Increment 25 clothing, including consolidation of the different types of underwear to facilitate obtaining quantities of each type.    [Multiple types of underwear were located in the same bag, and each type needed to be sorted into one bag, for updating audit information.  In the end there should be 12 bags of underwear with one type and size of underwear per bag.]   Kaleri performed the periodic inspection of the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor’s sediment trap insert (VU) in the SM (Service Module).     [The Russian SRVK-2M converts collected condensate into drinking water and dispenses the reclaimed potable water.]   Later, Alex conducted the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways.     [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PrK–Progress, DC1–Progress, PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment) – RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]   FE-1 also spent several hours continuing the current round of monthly preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems.    [In the DC1 Docking Compartment, Sasha cleaned the VD1 & VD2 air ducts and the V3 fan screen.]   FE-2 Skripochka had 2h15m reserved for more Progress 40P unloading & cargo transfers, With IMS (Inventory Management System) logging of the moves.   Oleg did the regular weekly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization).    [This is primarily an inspection of the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices) in contingency configuration, SLD cables for fraying and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time & date values.]   Kelly performed the periodic changeout of the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) urine receptacle (UR) and insert filter (IF) with new units.      [WHC was unavailable for use during this activity.]   Working on the ARED advanced resistive exerciser, Scott conducted its periodic maintenance & visual inspection, including evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition & sensor calibration, checking out the rails & rollers and greasing the Y- and Z-axes rails & rollers.   FE-5 Yurchikhin removed hatch handles from the Progress cargo ships and re-installed them as additional handles on the MRM1 Rassvet, MRM2 Poisk, and DC1 Pirs active docking assembly transfer hatch to facilitate hatch closing operations (from the side where the docking mechanism was removed) in case of rapid depressurization.    Fyodor also completed the regular inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).   Later, FE-5 continued the extended leak integrity checking of the spare BZh Liquid Unit (#056) for the Elektron O2 generator, repressed on 10/13 with nitrogen (N2) to 1 atm (1 kg/cm2), by conducting the usual pressure check and recharging it with N2 from BPA-1M Nitrogen Purge Unit as required to verify the unit’s hermeticity.     [Objective of the monthly checkout of the spare BZh, which has been in stowage since March 2007, is to check for leakage and good water passage through the feed line inside of the BZh (from ZL1 connector to the buffer tank) and to check the response of the Electronics Unit’s micro switches (signaling “Buffer Tank is Empty” & “Buffer Tank is Full”.  During Elektron operation, the inert gas locked up in the BZh has the purpose to prevent dangerous O2/H2 mixing.  A leaking BZh cannot be used.]   Shannon Walker began repair work on damaged or stuck DZUS fasteners on closeout panels in the US Lab module.     [A few of these fasteners were damaged or missing. The original fasteners launched installed in the Lab did not have the proper heat treatment and were too short, and as a result were prone to splaying.  The new fasteners are better due to proper heat treatment and longer shaft length. This longer fastener shaft length could result in a loose fit, so Shannon used peelable shims to create a good fit.]   The task of tearing-down & stowing the BPSMU (Battery Powered Speaker Microphone Unit) equipment with its long drag-through cabling moved from the discretionary “job jar” list to Shannon’s regular timeline for today, and she completed it OK.     [To comply with Drag-through Rules until STS-133/ULF5 launches, cables had to be disconnected for Audio-1 & Audio-2 at the Node-2-to-Lab hatch, Lab-to-Node-1 hatch and Node-1-to-Node-3 hatch.  This task also included gathering serial number and bar code numbers of the cables for future procedure development.]   Kaleri did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Sasha also performed periodic service of the RS radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), initializing & re-deploying new Bubble dosimeters detectors and verifying proper function of the setup with the LULIN-5 electronics box.     [A total of eight Bubble dosimeter detectors (A21-A28) were initialized in the Bubble dosimeter reader in the SM and positioned at new exposure locations.  The deployment locations of the detectors were photo-documented with the NIKON D2X camera and also reported with initialization data to TsUP via log sheet via OCA.  The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls],   Oleg Skripochka completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   Before sleeptime, Oleg will set up the Russian MBI-12 payload and start his 3rd Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]   Wheels completed the audit/inventory of the HRF (Human Research Facility) Racks 1 started on 11/4 with Drawers B1, C2 & D2, supported by uplinked item/location tables, then got to work on HRF-2.       [HRF Rack hardware has been utilized on and off since 5A.1 and it is essential the ground knows the whereabouts of this hardware for future payload ops.  Thus, the audits of HRF hardware in the rack drawers are intended to provide the ground with an accurate, on-orbit inventory, prompt the need for return/manifesting data, and ensure hardware is easily found by the crew, thus utilizing crew time more efficiently.  POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center)/Huntsville) will update the computerized IMS (Inventory Management System) database for all hardware audit results.]   The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  