
X2R21 Transition Activities: As part of the X2R21 software updates occurring this week, the crew attached the remaining two Portable Computer System (PCS) laptops to the Joint Station LAN (JSL) so they could be imaged from the ground. After imaging, the JEM and Node 3 PCS laptops were reconnected to 1553. Ground teams continued transition activities by loading the CCS 21 software to the Standby Command and Control (C&C) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM), transitioning the Hub Control Zone (HCZ) MDMs to HCS R8, and transitioning the Payload MDMs to PEP R18. All three C&C MDMs have been successfully updated. The X2R21 software updates will provide support for new vehicles such as the HTV-X1 and DCC-1, add safing for rack relocation activities, provide commanding and mode swap capabilities, and provide a number of other generic system improvements.
Payloads:
Astrobee: Astrobee familiarization and preparation were completed in support of autonomous Astrobee video capture operations. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. These robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, and logistics management and can accommodate up to three investigations.
Cerebral Autoregulation: The Cardiolab Portable Doppler (CDL PDOP) and Laptop were powered on, and measurements were taken. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight, and provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): MSG E-Box, Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) Fan, HD Video Drawer, and MLC air inlet screens were cleaned. The MSG is a rack-level payload facility located in the LAB Module on the ISS. MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen, and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present and is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): Veggie unit was cleaned and setup for dry out. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Today, the crew continued preparations for upcoming USOS EVAs. First, the crew degassed two Contingency Water Containers – Iodinated (CWC-I) to be used for EVA operations. Next, the crew practiced Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) rescue scenarios using the VR Trainer (VRT). After being refamiliarized with SAFER, they then set up the Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) Onboard Trainer to review operation of the EMU ECWS and practice EVA Cuff Checklist procedures. Finally, the crew reviewed the Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) software configuration steps for the upcoming EVA.
Toilet Operations: After reviewing Big Picture Words (BPW) and configuring a camcorder for downlink, the crew checked out the new Toilet COTS Conductivity Monitor (CCM) using manual pretreat doses and water. The CCM, which was installed yesterday, is an inductive-based conductivity sensor that provides pretreat quality monitoring. The crew then prepared Toilet for dormancy by flushing the fluid lines through manual dosing and flushing with Drink Bags. Once the fluid lines were flushed, Toilet was deactivated, and the crew inspected the Toilet Air Filter for signs of liquid carry-over from the Toilet Separator. The last inspection for leaks was deferred.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Standby CCS R21 Load C&C
CDH HCZ MDM Swap
CDH Backup HCS R8 Load
Backup Payload MDM R18 Load

