11-01-2010November 01, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/01/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       Underway:  Week 6 of Increment 25.  At wake-up, FE-2 Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Oleg again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  CDR Wheelock, FE-6 Walker & FE-3 Kelly began another week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 7th for Wheels & Shannon, 2nd for Scott, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Later, Scott prepared his SLEEP Actiwatch by replacing its lithium battery, downloading its data to the COL HRF PC-1 (Portable Computer 1) and initializing it, then decabling & stowing the hardware and powering off the PC.  Also after wake-up, Wheelock, Walker & Kelly performed another session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.      [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift (therefore, for the next sleep shift sequence RST is scheduled twice daily from 11/1 through 5 days after the STS-133 crew lands). The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  After breakfast, Kelly started his 3rd weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.   His commensurate overnight fast started last night.      [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.]   FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted his 3rd onboard session of the Russian MedOps assessment MO-12, (“Study of the Veins in the Lower Extremities”), using the KARDIOMED (Cardiomed) complex with orthogonal leads which Oleg Kotov had unloaded from Progress 36P on 2/26 and installed in the SM.      [After loading the RSE-med laptop with the Cardiomed software, Fyodor set up the equipment, which involves KARDIOMED-TsB, KARDIOMED-KP, KARDIOMED-PMO and KARDIOMED-KRM assemblies with ECG (electrocardiogram) electrodes in a HOLTER monitor harness, a PLETISMOGRAF (Plethysmograph) instrument with calf measuring cuff, pneumatic hose, thigh occlusion cuff, hand pump & valve, and a DOPPLER complex.  A Plethysmograph (sometimes called a “body box”) is an instrument for measuring changes in volume within an organ or the whole body (usually resulting from fluctuations in the amount of blood or air it contains).]  Afterwards, Fyodor performed the periodic inspection of the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor’s sediment trap insert (VU) in the SM (Service Module).     [The Russian SRVK-2M converts collected condensate into drinking water and dispenses the reclaimed potable water.]  FE-2 Skripochka completed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #1 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated later tonight (~5:15pm EDT) before sleeptime, followed tomorrow by Bed #2 regeneration.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 10/11-10/12).]  For Shannon Walker, the day began with the blood draw for the CSA (Canadian Space Agency) Vascular Blood Collection protocol, her 2nd  time, assisted by Doug Wheelock as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  FE-6 then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the coagulated samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS), after recording the five blood tube bar codes.  Afterwards, FE-6 worked in the US A/L (Airlock) on the PHA (Prebreathe Hose Assembly) hardware, troubleshooting a “whining noise” heard by the crew during US EVAs 15, 16 and 17.      [Walker had to connect each piece of PHA hardware sequentially to determine which piece of hardware was the source of the noise.  First crew report:  “…whining noise only when O2 is flowing into a hose.  High pitched and not in any of the components attached to QD0027 (quick disconnect 27) - comes from behind that connection.  Sounds as though it is behind the panel.”]  In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Shannon then made room for today’s scheduled Ultrasound (USND) activities by the US crewmembers by temporarily relocating stowed cargo at loc. D4 to another place.  Doug Wheelock was the first for the new session with the HMS USND (Health Maintenance System / Ultrasound) system in the COL, with VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) adjusted to transmit views of the activities.   The CDR set up the USND system, checked it out and cleaned data off the HRF-1 USND hard drive, then submitted himself for an eye examination scan executed by FE-3 Kelly who served as CMO.  Afterwards, Scott Kelly & Shannon Walker also took turns as subjects for their USND sessions, each in turn assisting the other as CMO.  FE-3 then tore down the USND gear and put it away, while FE-6 returned the cargo to its COL D4 stowage.  Other activities completed by Doug Wheelock included –  Preparing the Cupola for ULF5 robotics operations by relocating the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop to the Cupola to function as 2nd wired SSC for robotics video, and configuring SSC-19 in the Cupola to wired connectivity  [using the SSCs in wired configuration (rather than wireless) is a robotics requirement, but for safety the hatch-dragthrough cables will only be connected for the robotics ops (i.e., SSC-5 & SSC-19 will not be available at other times)],Performing the periodic module hatch seal inspection, today taking ~90 min for the hatches at Node-3 nadir, Node-2 aft, Node-2 starboard & port, Node-1 aft, starboard & forward, plus COL,Reconnecting the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) from backflow back to feeding the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) until RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) fill begins,Preparing the EVA REEA (Extravehicular Activity Retractable End-Effector Assembly) reel by separating the End Effector from the tether cord for its return on Soyuz 23S,Starting another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later  [this was the 37th session with the GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 100 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware],Conducting the T+5 day visual microbial (bacterial & fungal) analysis & data recording of surface & air samples collected by Scott Kelly on 10/27 in Lab, SM, Node-1, Node-3 & Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) with the Microbiology SSK (Surface Sampling Kit) and MAS (Microbial Air Sampler)   [the colony growth on the sampling slides is inspected visually after five days of incubation, using a special procedure to analyze the SSK media slides for bacterial & fungal colony growths],Terminating the EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) battery discharge process on the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly) in the A/L, andPerforming the periodic evacuation of the ARED exerciser’s cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition & sensor calibration.   In the SM, FE-1 Kaleri unstowed and set up the Russian BTKh-43 KONSTANTA (#11) payload, delivered on Progress 40P, then performed the experiment.  Skripochka assisted by taking documentary imagery of the activities.    [BTKh-43, comprising the Recomb-K hybridizer bioreactor plus photo & video equipment with two SPR-1 portable lights, studies potential effects of spaceflight factors and their nature on the activity of a model enzyme relative to a specific substrate (bioreactors are specialized hardware for growing, cells, tissues, and microorganisms).]  Oleg Skripochka worked in the Progress 40P vehicle to install the electronic LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and its PZU-1M ROM (read-only memory), using recycled boxes from stowage.  In support of ground-commanded test activities on the KURS automated rendezvous radar system, Alex connected the KURS-P cabling for DC1 operation.  Afterwards, FE-1 scan-checked on the periodic refresh of the IUS AntiVirus program in the Russian VKS network laptops RSS1, RSS2 & RSK1 which are loaded automatically from the ground (RSS2 once a week on Friday, RSS1 & RSK1 from a special software program), and updated the Norton AV database on the auxiliary (non-networked) machines RSK2, RSE1 & RSE-med.  Fyodor & Oleg had ~3h set aside for an in-depth review of the uplinked preliminary timeline for the Russian EVA-26, to be conducted by Yurchikhin (EV1) & Skripochka (EV2) on 11/15, starting at ~9:30am EST and lasting an estimated 5h55m.  CDR Wheelock will support the spacewalk with airlock ops.      [Objectives are: Installing space experiment “Test” on SM & DC1, installing the URM-D portable multipurpose work station on the SM RO l.d. (large diameter), taking photos of the IPI-SM monoblock unit (accelerator channel) of the IMPULSE space experiment on RO l.d., wiping the KONTUR (“ROBOTIK”) monoblock with dry towels, then deactivating & removing KONTUR from URM-D, and finally installing a gap spanner on DC1, fasteners & SKK #1-M2 cassette on MRM2 “Poisk”, and struts between MRM2 & SM, MRM2 & FGB.]  Afterwards, FE-2 & FE-5 had another 2h reserved for gathering & preparing tools & equipment for EVA-26, such as KPU EVA tool carrier, hammer, pry bar, screwdriver, patch panels, gap spanner, wire ties, braces, etc.  Scott Kelly retrieved the HRF Electronic Media Kit (13A.1) and consolidated its contents for its planned return on ULF5 (deferred by Wheels on 10/29).       [Steps included verifying current contents, collecting & inserting additional items such as hard disk drives and the CD-ROM wallet, and packing them with foam to provide maximum protection.]  Other activities completed by Scott were –  Repairing the MLI (Multi-Layer Insulation) on SCU-2 (Service & Cooling Umbilical 2) in the A/L with an upholstery needle & thread from the heavy duty sewing kit  [the MLI allows the SCU to survive the thermal conditions outside the A/L], Replacing suspect HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) in the COL PCS (Portable Computer System) & Lab PCS with new HDDs after loading (image-“ghosting”) them with Vers. R13.002 software  [patches to be remotely installed afterwards by MCC-H],Replacing the empty gas supply ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit) in the VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module) with a fresh gas supply module (#003), shutting the access door, re-attaching the acoustic blanket and turning VCAM on again, andPutting a label on the flex hose of the Cupola’s ATU ITCS (Audio Terminal Unit Internal Thermal Control System).  Alex Kaleri did the regular weekly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization).    [This is primarily an inspection of the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices) in contingency configuration, SLD cables for fraying and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time & date values.]  Shannon Walker had ~2h50m for more cargo prepacking for ULF5.  CDR, FE-3 & FE-6 conducted their standard PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Shannon at ~12:35pm Scott at ~12:55pm, Wheels at ~2:15pm EDT.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (25-0001B) lists 122 CWCs (2,765.5 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (28 CWCs with 1170.0 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 712.7 L in 17 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 300.1 L in 7 bags for flushing only with microbial filter, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (84 CWCs with 1,548.2 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (16.9 L in 2 bags, with 6.3 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 6 empty bags; and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (30.4 L, in 1 CWC with 20.2 L from hose/pump flush & 10.2 bag with 2.00 L from EMU dump).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  No CEO photo targets uplinked for today.  