
Lighting Effects: Upon wakeup, a 52S subject provided a sleep log entry, and then conducted a series of three Cognition tests throughout the day. The Lighting Effects experiment hopes to better quantify and qualify how lighting can effect habitability of spacecraft. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
Miniature Exercise Device (MED-2):  Today crewmembers configured the Node 3 camera and three other cameras deployed around Node 3 to capture video from multiple views of the crew performing dead lifts and rowing exercises using the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) and the MED-2 hardware. The ISS’s exercise equipment is large and bulky, while the MED-2 aims to demonstrate small robotic actuators can provide motion and resistance for crew workout sessions, reducing the size and weight of exercise equipment for long-duration space missions. The MED-2 investigation is a system to test key technologies needed to develop space based exercise equipment that may provide appropriate countermeasures to the adverse effects of microgravity. This technology is critical for the initial design and development of second and third generation Counter Measure Systems (CMS) hardware that is an order of magnitude lighter and smaller than existing ISS class of CMS hardware and that has significantly greater reliability. 
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Camera Power and Data Exchange: To troubleshoot the LMM wide-field camera capability, the crew exchanged the power connection from the LMM wide-field camera to the LMM confocal camera; and then exchanged the data connection from the LMM confocal camera to the LMM wide-field camera. The Light Microscopy Module (LMM) is a modified commercial, highly flexible, state-of-the-art light imaging microscope facility that provides researchers with powerful diagnostic hardware and software onboard the International Space Station (ISS). 
Earth Imagery from ISS Target Operations: The crew captured video footage of a night pass of the Gulf of Thailand and New York City.  The Earth Imagery from ISS investigation creates a series of videos showcasing Earth from space. These videos were taken with cameras on the International Space Station in 6K hi-resolution, then will be integrated into videos for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement.
Lab Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Accumulator Refill: The crew set up the Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Fluids Control Pump Assembly (FCPA) and refilled the LAB Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) accumulator. After FSS operations were complete, they drained and purged the FSS FCPA and jumpers. 
Internal Wireless Instrumentation System (IWIS) Tri-Axial Accelerometer (TAA) Replace:  Data collected during ISS reboosts on GMT 117 and GMT 137 indicated that the Functional Cargo Block (FGB) IWIS TAA had detached or had an IWIS TAA issue. Today the crew accessed the hardware and inspected it.  Based on their findings, it was determined that the TAA had hardware issues, and the crew replaced the IWIS TAA with a spare attached to a new IWIS FGB TAA plate. 
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Leak Check: Telemetry during the Lab CDRA blower speed test indicates that an air leak is present in the CDRA.  Today the crew inspected the Lab CDRA for a leak using the Ultrasonic Leak Detector (ULD).  A sizable leak was found on Air Selector Valve (ASV) 103. The crew was able to repair the leak by demating and remating the Hydraflow connector. A few other potential small leaks were identified. No other interfaces were demated. Crew tightened fasteners and connectors as needed and closed out the rack. CDRA will run overnight to fully characterize performance improvements.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry
Miniature Exercise Device Operations Session
Lighting Effects Cognition Test
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Coolant Refill of Lab – Procedure Review
Satellite Navigation Equipment [АСН-М] deinstallation of НПМ 1, 2, 3, 4 units.
Recharging SM-AGAT-U55 external batteries  (2) In Soyuz 734, start recharge
HRF Generic Urine Collection Setup
Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Payload Water Reservoir (PWR) Gather
Temp stow cargo prior to the mantanance IWIS
ESA Weekly crew conference
Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Lab Stowage Clear
Demating НПМ telemetry connectors.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Fluid System Servicer (FSS) refill of the Lab Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) accumulator.
JLP Identify
Replacement of БСК-1В units providing power to Regul-OS Relay Communications Control System [РСУС] sets 1 and 2.
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Procedure Review
Internal Wireless Instrumentation System Tri-Axial Accelerometer Remove and Replace
VIZIR. Experiment Ops.
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Initiation
Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Lab Stowage Replace
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Two-Phase Flow Experiment Equipment Deactivation
Mating БСК-1В telemetry connectors.
Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Potable Water Reservoir (PWR) Stowage
СОЖ maintenance
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Setup
LMM Camera Power Swap
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Leak Inspection & Troubleshooting
Recharging SM-AGAT-U55 external batteries (2) in Soyuz 734, Terminate charge
Satellite Navigation Equipment [АСН-М] installation of НПМ 1, 2, 3, 4 units.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
Earth Imagery from ISS Nikon Target Operations
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
 Mating Navigation Receiver Module (НПМ) units telemetry connectors.
Cygnus Cargo Operations Review
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Nitrogen Manual Valve Open
Closeout ops with FGB panels after IWIS sensor replacement
LMM Camera Data Swap
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – ESA Nutritional Assessment
Cygnus Cargo Operations Conference
URAGAN. Observation and Photography using VSS

Completed Task List Activities

ESA EPO:  ASI Biomission script recording
ESA EPO:  In Situ message recording
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
T2 Extender Strap Transfer for use on ARED.
VEG-03 Plant Pillow Water
OA-8 Trash Gather 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


CDRA Leak Check Ground Support
Lab ITCS Fill Support

