
Payloads:
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM):  A crewmember performed a lens configuration to the 180mm lens on the EarthKAM camera. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Manufacturing Device (MAND): A crewmember removed and stowed a completed the fifth of six 90-degree panel prints for materials testing. MAND enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the MAND printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. MAND is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): A crewmember performed a visual inspection and activation of the MSG facility prior to payload operations. The Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) is a rack-level payload facility located in the U.S. Laboratory module on the International Space Station (ISS). MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen, and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present. MSG is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules-BRazing of Aluminum alloys IN Space (SUBSA-BRAINS): A crewmember installed the SUBSA hardware on to the MSG work volume and installed the calibration sample. A calibration will be performed in preparation of SUBSA-BRAINS samples from Crew-3 arrival. SUBSA-BRAINS examines differences in capillary flow, interface reactions, and bubble formation during solidification of brazing alloys in microgravity. Brazing technology bonds similar materials (such as an aluminum alloy to aluminum) or dissimilar ones (such as aluminum alloy to ceramics) at temperatures above 450°C. It is a potential tool for construction of human space habitats and manufactured systems as well as repair of damage from micrometeoroids or space debris.
Exploration ECLSS-TOILET: A crewmember performed the Node 3 Toilet Leak Inspection and then performed R&Rs (Removal and Replace) of the Toilet Fecal Cannister and Air filter. The Toilet System is an Exploration Tech Demo that has evolved into a permanent USOS system.  The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS).  The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for USOS for up to 90-crew-days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent WHC/Toilet operations.
Systems: 
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew verified that the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), the Extension Hose Tee Kit, the Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) [a PBA consists of a Quick Don Mask (QDM) Assembly connected to a PBA Oxygen Reducer/Cylinder Assembly], and Pre-Breathe Mask are all free of damage to ensure functionality in the case of an emergency.
Crew Departure Preparations: The crew began loading stowage and other necessities in preparation for Crew Dragon departure. Crew Dragon is tentatively scheduled to undock from the ISS on November 7th and return the Endeavor crew safely to earth.
Completed Task List Activities:

Review Toilet System BPW prior to crew use

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSG to install SUBSA software on MLC
Repressing Lab Low temperature Loop (LTL) system
Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Activation
Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) Deactivation [ABORTED]

