
X2R1 Transition Activities: As part of the X2R21 software updates occurring this week, ground teams loaded and transitioned the Power Management Controller Unit (PMCU) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) to PMCA R7 and the N3-1 MDM to N3SYS1 R5. Today’s X2R21 activities will conclude with ground teams loading the CCS R21 Timeliner files to all three Command and Control (C&C) Mass Storage Devices (MSDs). The X2R21 software updates will provide support for new vehicles such as the HTV-X1 and DCC-1, add safing for rack relocation activities, provide commanding and mode swap capabilities, and provide a number of other generic system improvements.
Payloads:
Cerebral Autoregulation: The Cardiolab Portable Doppler (CDL PDOP) and Laptop were powered on, and measurements were taken. The hardware was closed out by disconnecting cables and stowing the equipment. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight, and provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): MSG was inspected by the crew and activated to verify readiness for future operations. MSG is a rack-level payload facility located in the LAB Module on the ISS. MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen, and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present and is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): XROOTS was removed for stowage, and the Veggie baseplate was reassembled to the nominal Veggie configuration. The Cabin Fan, Veggie unit interior, and Cabin Fan Intake Vents were cleaned. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Today, the crew continued preparations for upcoming USOS EVAs. They performed an Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) loop scrub of EMU 3013, tested water samples for conductivity, and initiated iodination. Although EMU 3009 was also prepared for the loop scrub, the crew encountered an issue with the EMU and did not perform the scrub. Ground teams are investigating. Additionally, the crew installed the Hard Upper Torso (HUT) ORU Scrubber to the spare HUT 2036 to scrub and iodinate the spare HUT water lines. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop. 
Treadmill 2 (T2) 6-Month Maintenance: Today, the crew performed the 6-month preventive maintenance for T2. The crew inspected the isolators, bottom snubbers, and tread belt slats and screws before photographing the grease distribution on both drive shafts. They then photographed the lining of the snubber cups, vacuumed around the treadmill, and inspected the MTL hoses and T2 umbilical panel. An unmanned activation and checkout (ACO) with acoustic monitoring was completed. After reviewing the data, ground specialists have verified T2 remains GO for exercise.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiate & Terminate: As part of regularly scheduled maintenance, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC ЕДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The ЕДВ-СВ is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the ЕДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) WHC Fan Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew performed an R&R of the WHC Fan Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) after the WHC ACY Fan control panel auto switch tripped overnight. WHC is the Russian built metabolic waste disposal system that has been modified to fit within a standard USOS sized rack.
Robotics Workstation (RWS) Display and Control Panel (DCP) Checkout: The crew completed a checkout to verify critical RWS functionality in preparation for upcoming robotics operations. The Mobile Servicing System (MSS) is a robotic system that provides construction, maintenance, and payload handling capabilities on the ISS, and the RWS is the operator interface the crew and ground teams use to perform MSS robotics operations.
Completed Task List Activities:

IFM WHC Fan R&R

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PMCA R7 Load to PMCU MDM
ETHOS Systems Configuration for N3-1 MDM Deactivation
N3-1 MDM R5 Transition
CCS R21 Timeliner Uplink [In-Progress]
Crew Dragon Endurance Monthly Wakeup

