11-06-2010November 06, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/06/10   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew off duty.   >>>Last day on Daylight Saving Time.<<<   CDR Wheelock, FE-6 Walker & FE-3 Kelly continued their current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 7th for Wheels & Shannon, 2nd for Scott, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]   Also after wake-up, CDR, FE-6 & FE-3 performed another session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.      [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]   At day’s begin, FE-2 Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Oleg again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]    The three Russian Flight Engineers performed the regular weekly two-hour task of thorough cleaning of their RS (Russian Segment) home.     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises.]    As part of the Uborka house cleaning, the Russian crewmembers conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).   Later, Alex also performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.    Shannon Walker completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router & FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) laptops (the latter required to mitigate the problem of iPV and OSTPV not opening up procedures due to a memory leak in the “Tomcat” software).  After a period of no less than 10 min later, FE-6 also rebooted the two ISS network servers (SERVER1 & 2).   FE-5 Yurchikhin performed the periodic service of the RS radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), collecting eight Bubble dosimeter kits (A21-A28) and reading their recorded radiation traces in a special Reader.  Data (exposure duration from initialization, bubble quantity, dose) were recorded on a log sheet and downlinked via OCA.     [The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls.]   FE-1 Kaleri meanwhile did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   Later, Fyodor & Oleg teamed up to continue preparations for their EVA-26 spacewalk on 11/15 and dry-run on 11/12, first activating Orlan-MK spacesuits #4 & #5, then configuring special personal Orlan gear including KVO liquid cooling garments, ShL-10S comm headsets, LP-10KM gloves, BK-10 thermal comfort undergarments, cotton socks, pure wool socks and diapers.   Afterwards, Yurchikhin checked out the POV EVA support panel in the DC1 Docking Compartment, while Skripochka tested POV in the SM PkhO (Transfer Compartment).   At ~8:40am EDT, the Russian crewmembers conducted the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared by TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.      [With the slip of STS-133/ULF5 to not earlier than 11/30, MCC-Houston specialists are in the process of replanning onboard crew activities for the week ahead.]   At ~4:05pm, Shannon is scheduled for her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).   The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-3) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-5).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]   A new item added to the discretionary “job jar” task list for Wheels, Scott & Shannon calls for the tear-down & stowage of the BPSMU (Battery Powered Speaker Microphone Unit) equipment with its long drag-through cabling, not now required until Discovery’s arrival in early December.  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Five -- Week 6).  2D NANO Template (JAXA):    No report.   3D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     “Thank you, Shannon, for de-activating / re-activating the ALTEA hardware.  So far, so good.  All 6 SDU's are measuring the radiation conditions in the US-Lab !”  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):     No report.  BIOLAB (ESA):    “Doug, thanks for supporting the BIOLAB activities this week when installing the PCMs into the BIOLAB cooler (TCU#2).  A long-duration ground-commanded test aims at testing both Incubator and TCU performances this week.”  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.   BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    CBEF wipe was executed by Shannon as a regular task on 10/26.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):     “Scott:  Thank you for 2 successful operations of the CFE-2 ICF2 unit, performed last Friday (Oct 29) and Tuesday of this week.  The initial "dry chamber" test run and all of the "pre-wetted surface" tests have been completed.  In fact, you completed 2 extra pre-wetted surface tests which is great for repeatability (and statistical) purposes.  We do appreciate your patience in waiting 15 minutes instead of the 10 minutes in the procedure to allow extra time for the fluid to reach its final equilibrium state.”  CFS-A (Fungi-A):   Preparations for launch on ULF5 proceed all nominally.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.   CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.   CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    No report.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.   DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):     DECLIC is OFF until 11/22.  The main objective of the DSI-S2 sequence was to keep exploring the experimental matrix for the acquisition of benchmark data on the formation and characteristics of microstructures in diffusive transport conditions.  Compared with the previous runs, the thermal gradient which is a critical parameter for the control of the microstructure formation has been modified.   A decrease in the thermal gradient by a factor 2 allowed obtaining larger microstructures of good quality, which is beneficial for the interferometry analysis of dendritic structures that will be carried out subsequently. Moreover, such conditions offered the possibility to work at lower pulling rates and then led to a better control of the curvature.  In general, the scientists are very satisfied with the DSI-S2 sequence realized and the results obtained are in good agreement with their expectations.   DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.    DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS, ESA):    “Thank you, Shannon, for the DOSIS troubleshooting.  The outcome is that engineering team can now pinpoint the fault in the DOSTEL-1 unit. DOSTEL-2 remains operational, and we continue to acquire science data.  The recent troubleshooting on orbit has demonstrated that the DOSTEL-1 unit is faulty and unfortunately completely inoperative.  The DOSIS experiment includes 2 DOSTEL units (active radiation detectors).  Each DOSTEL unit can measure the radiation environment along 2 orthogonal axes.  DOSIS configuration with 2 DOSTEL units made it possible to get a 3-axis radiation monitoring.  The impact of having 1 failed DOSTEL unit reduces the monitoring to 2-axis only.  After the troubleshooting this week, the faulty DOSTEL-1 unit is left disconnected from the DOSIS E-Box, and we continue the acquisition with DOSTEL-2.  That being said, the DOSIS experimental program has been completed during the period between 2J/A (July 2009) and ULF4 (May 2010).  Post ULF4 mission, only active measurements with DOSTEL units were continued as bridging phase until ESA implements new science proposals in that research field.  The failure of DOSTEL Unit 1 is unfortunate, but does not mean that DOSIS was not fully achieved.”  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA)  (Exercise2-Demo & Dress4Scess-Demo):    “Wheels- you did a great job on the EPO-Exercise2-Demo and EPO-Dress4Scess-Demo.  Thanks for all the detail and extra footage.  Your creativity is greatly appreciated.  The process you used for video and audio recording worked great.  Both videos will be edited and used in the "Day in the Life Aboard the ISS" education website.  EPO-Exercise2-Demo is intended for students and educators grades 6-12 and EPO-Dress4Scess-Demo is intended for students and educators grades K-5.  These videos will inform students of how astronauts live and work in a microgravity environment. In addition to helping students understand the differences between living in space and on Earth, the  goal of these videos is to encourage the pursuit of STEM careers.  We look forward to completing more education videos.”  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Kids in Space):   No report.   EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    No report.  . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.   EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.   EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.   EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.  EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    Space Bottle has been wrapped with Kapton tape and moved to the airlock for ULF5 EVA on 10/14. This bottle will be exposed in space by ULF-5 shuttle EVA.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.   EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.   EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    No report.  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET-2 (JAXA):   No report.   FERULATE (JAXA):    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.   HAIR (JAXA):   No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 1932 images have been taken to date.  The most recent HICO images taken include areas of New Zealand, southern Australia and the Marshall Islands.  HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):    No report.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     No report.   IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    No report.  Marangoni Exp (JAXA):   4th run was completed on 10/29.  The Marangoni image data was successfully downlinked, but Clip List and Pause List were not, because IPU-G file processing unit was shut off due to power outage.  After the re-activation of the unit, these lists were downlinked.  After VRU HDDs exchange on 11/2, 5th and 6th run were performed.  “We perform Marangoni runs during your crew sleep period, to minimize any vibrations.  Vibrations can rupture the silicon oil bridge.  If this were to happen, this would cause a science data collection delay, as well as a significant impact to crew time to clean up and restore the payload to nominal operations.”   Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc19&20.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-2 (JAXA):    1st sampling session was completed on 10/29.  Other sampling sessions are planed on ULF5’s FD2 and FD5.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.   MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally and all Science data continues to be downlinked.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.   MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.   MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 2 (JAXA):   Caldwell, Wheelock, and Walker performed on 8/30.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.   NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.   NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.   NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    No report.   PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report.    PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    In progress in Ryutai Rack.   PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG.   PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.   RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.   RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Wheels and Shannon: Once again thank you for your patience with Reaction Self Test scheduling.  This sleep shift around STS 133/ULF5 would have captured a second sleep shift which is above and beyond the nominal requirements.  The data from your first sleep shift session looks good.  We thank you for continuing to participate and Reaction Self Test will continue to be nominally scheduled at twice a day every four days.  Scott, we received your crew note and will discontinue Reaction Self Test for this sleep shift period and target another sleep shift period later in your mission.  Reaction Self Test will continue to be nominally scheduled at twice a day every four days.  Thank you for your patience and participation!"  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report.   SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.   SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.   SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    "All, you are currently completing your second week of sleep logging this increment.  Thanks for the participation!  Scott, thanks for getting a new Actiwatch ready for Wheels.  We are working to bring the two anomalous watches down on ULF5 for additional troubleshooting on the ground."  SMILES (JAXA):   10th recooling warm-up process is on-going (it is in warming process now).  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   Sun observation window #34 has started on 10/29.  On the same day, SOLAR experienced a (usual) AIB failure, quickly recovered before the start of science acquisition.  On 10/30, SOLAR experienced a second AIB failure. SOLAR was also put in idle mode during 40P docking.  The current Sun observation window is predicted to end around 11/08.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.   Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report.   SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA):     “Scott, thanks for your weekend work on SPHINX!  We confirm that the samples got installed into KUBIK within margin (max. L+96hrs).  Samples are being processed by automated timeline at +37degC.  After 7 days (i.e. on 11/07 – this is time critical), the KUBIK-6 temperature set-point will be changed to +6degC and the experiment will be terminated.  Samples will be kept refrigerated in KUBIK-6 until 23S return.”  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    “Shannon and Doug, thank you very much for completing this tasting experiment for ESA!  We hope that you enjoyed it, and we are now looking forward to watch your great video footage!”  THERMOLAB (ESA):   No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   “Thank you, Shannon, for completing your on-orbit blood draws.  The team is looking forward to welcome you back on R+1 in Houston.”   VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):    No report.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    No report.  VO2max (NASA):    No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    Through 10/31, the ground has received a total of 2,448 frames of Exp-25 CEO imagery for review and cataloging.   “However, no additional frames with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists were acquired this week.  The content, quality, and composition of your nighttime photography have become awesome!  Numerous publication-quality images have been identified already and your techniques may become incorporated in our future target requirements.  Please keep shooting as your personal time permits!  Your fascinating view of the Syr Dar'ya River Floodplain, Kazakhstan in central Asia was published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  Your image illustrates the complex interaction of human agricultural activities with the natural hydrology of a great river in a desert climate regime.  Thanks for your marvelous efforts in photography of our Earth from the ISS!”   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Oasis Impact Crater, Libya (ISS had an early afternoon, nadir pass in clear weather for this target.  This remote impact site is located in far eastern Libya near the border with Egypt.  It’s about 120 million years old and 18km in diameter.  There are few strong visual cues in this area, so the crew was to try simply for a detailed mapping along their pass looking for a crater feature), Bamako, Mali (this capital city of almost 2 million is located in the southwestern part of the country.  ISS approached this target from the southwest near midday with clear weather expected.  Bamako is situated astride the Niger River.  Looking near-nadir and trying to map the visible urban area), and Sierra el Tigre (ISS had a nadir pass for this target with its approach from the southwest, in early afternoon under clear autumn skies.  This rugged, saucer-shaped, range of mountains is situated in the northeastern part of the state of Sonora Mexico east of the valley containing the General Lazaro Cardenas Reservoir.  With elevations ranging from about 4,000 to 8,000+ feet, the Sierra el Tigre support an ecologically diverse, alpine-woodland habitat within the Sonoran Desert that includes them in the regional province of scattered highlands known as the Madrean Sky Islands of northwestern Mexico and the southwestern United States.  CEO staff is seeking detailed mapping views of this target for baseline and change detection of unique and threatened habitat.”  