
49 Soyuz (49S) Launch: 49S launched successfully from the Baikonur Cosmodrome at 2:20 pm CST this afternoon, with Peggy Whitson, Thomas Pesquet, and Oleg Novitskiy. Docking is scheduled for Saturday, November 19th at 4:01 pm CST. Once docked, the ISS crew complement will increase from 3 to 6 crewmembers. 
Human Research Facility (HRF) Software Upgrades: Today the crew initiated the final day of HRF software transitions to the HRF Rack 2 Personal Computer (PC).  The HRF Racks provide an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using the capabilities within the racks provide data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration space flight.
Story Time From Space: The crew recorded a video while reading the book I, Humanity by Jeffrey Bennett.  Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crew members read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crew members videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Cygnus Departure Preparations: Today the crew began configuring the Cygnus vehicle for departure. Today’s activities included relocating PCS computers to support Cygnus release, and egressing the Cygnus vehicle.  During the Cygnus egress procedure the crew installed the Air Revitalization System (ARS) sample line cap, derouted and stowed the Intermodular Ventilation (IMV) supply duct, removed handrails and radial port closeout, and closed the Cygnus hatch. The IMV supply duct was stowed in a mission-specific configuration to support Spacecraft Fire Experiment (SAFFIRE) operations after Cygnus unberthing.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA): The crew demated the connection between the Fluid Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) at Quick Disconnect (QD) 27 on the recently replaced Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA). This activity will allow teams to determine if the FCPA is the source of elevated conductivity in the UPA distillate. Troubleshooting involve disconnecting QD27 for two Advanced Recycle Filter Tank Assembly (ARFTA) concentration cycles to isolate the FCPA housing from the purge distillate. If conductivity significantly improves in this configuration, this could potentially implicate the FCPA. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference (S-band)
HRF2 PC 2 USB Load Installation Preparation
IMS Tagup (S-band)
ISS HAM Radio Session from SM
MRM1 Fan Screen Cleaning (Group B)
JEM System Laptop Terminal (SLT) Battery Replacement
UDOD. Experiment Ops with DYKNANIYE-1 and SPRUT-2 Sets.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
UDOD. Photography of the Experiment Session
MRM1 Fan Screen Cleaning (group C)
Treadmill 2 (T2) Exercise Video Equipment Setup
Treadmill 2 (T2) Exercise Video Equipment Stow
PCS Laptop Relocate
Inspection and Photography of SM Windows 6, 7, 8, 9, 26.
Strata Card Changeout
Progress 433 (DC1) Transfers and IMS Ops
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) or ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Cygnus Egress
Tightening Screw Clamps on MRM1/FGB Interface
Node 1 Nadir CBM Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) and Vestibule Outfitting Kit (VOK) Gather
Tightening of QD Screw Clamps on DC1-Progress 433 Interface
HRF2 PC 2 USB Load Installation Conclude
Story Time Book Human Read
СОЖ Maintenance
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill Part 3
IMS Update
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) QD27 Demate
Flight Director/ISS CREW CONFERENCE
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill

Completed Task List Items

SSC5 Check
New Food Evaluation 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Nominal ground commanding

