
Group Combustion Leak Check: The crew performed additional Group Combustion Experiment Module (GCEM) troubleshooting today, and completed a leak check of the Gaseous Nitrogen (GN2) supply line and associated Quick Disconnects (QDs). The International Standard Payload Rack (ISPR) valves and QDs for the gas supply line were connected and reconfigured then underwent a five hour leak check of the Combustion Chamber (CC). Ground teams are assessing the data. The Group Combustion investigation tests a theory that fuel sprays change from partial to group combustion as flames spread across a cloud of droplets. In the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack in the Kibo module, droplets of decane, a component of gasoline or kerosene, are arranged randomly on thin-fiber lattice points, and the flame and droplet positions and temperature distribution are measured as the flame spreads. Microgravity blocks convection, which on Earth would quickly disperse the droplets and combustion products before such measurements could be made.
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Maintenance:  After running nominally overnight, the Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) was put in a safe configuration this morning to allow the crew to inspect the H2 ORU QD.  This inspection was due to the not fully mated configuration the QD remained in after yesterday’s activities.  No water was noted on the QD or tape during the inspection.  The rack was closed and OGS was reactivated and moded to operate at 22% producing approximately 2 kg of Oxygen (O2) per day. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Crew Evaluation of New Food Items
Group Combustion Module (GCM) GN2 Leak Check Start
Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
Changeout of Dust Filter ПФ1-4 Cartridges in SM (ТГК433ГрО_з2_КII-1).
Progress 433 (DC1) Transfers and IMS Ops
Regenerative ECLSS Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Brine Filter Changeout
BIOKARD. Performing experiment
Progress 433 (DC1) Transfers and IMS Ops
Vacuum Cleaning of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in DC1
СОЖ maintenance
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Activation
Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) or ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
VEG-03 Plant Photo
BAR. Experiment. Tagup with specialists
SM Ventilation Subsystem Preventive Maintenance. Group В1
Strata Status Check
Group Combustion Module (GCM) GN2 Leak Check Stop
Oxygen Generation System Hydrogen Orbital Replacement Unit Quick Disconnect Inspection
Replacement of MRM1 Dust Filter cassettes СКПФ1, СКПФ2 (ТГК433ГрО_з2_КII-1).
VIZIR. Experiment Ops. Tagup with specialists as necessary
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) On Board Training (OBT)
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) Valve Operations
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Deactivation 

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

4B3 Battery Reconditioning
SSC Server1 transition
OGS deactivation/reactivation for QD leak check
Transition ISS Server1 to ZBook

