
MObile companion (Cimon):  A crewmember reviewed a summary for this week’s operations and also retrieved and charged the two Cimon batteries.  Cimon is a technology demonstration project and an observational study that aims to obtain the first insights into the effects on crew support by an artificial intelligence (AI), in terms of efficiency and acceptance during long-term missions in space. Spaceflight missions put the crew under a substantial amount of stress and workload, and it is thought that AI could provide operational support to crewmembers.
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics:  A crewmember removed Plate 1 Biophysics sample from the Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI)-1 and installed it into the LMM in preparation for Biophysics-06 experiment. Proteins are important biological molecules that can be crystallized to provide better views of their structure, which helps scientists understand how they work.  Proteins crystallized in microgravity are often higher in quality than those grown on Earth. LMM Biophysics 4 examines the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity.
Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG):  Today the crew removed the Gas Trap Fill Fixture from the Node-1 location in preparation for attachment to the LSG Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) return line planned for tomorrow. Tomorrow’s activity will start the removal of any trapped air in the system. The LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crewmembers can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Northrop Grumman 10 (NG-10) Cygnus On-board Training:  Today, the crew performed a Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. NG-10 is currently on track to launch on Novemeber15 and berth to ISS on November 18.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday evening, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and performed Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latch End Effector (LEE) checkouts on both strings. Brakes and joints diagnostics were also performed on both strings. All of the NG-10 pre-launch MSS checkouts were successful. They then maneuvered SSRMS to the Offset Grapple start positon where the LEE snare cables survey was performed to find that the snares were in a good configuration. MSS is now in position for the crew practice session scheduled for November 15, 2018.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R):  The crew removed and replaced the WHC Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter. After replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was performed and the WHC was declared operational.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


LSR Checkout [Ongoing] 

Two Day Look Ahead:
Wednesday, 11/14:
Payloads:


LSG Gas Trap Degassing IFM-return line (NASA)
BPC Microscopy2 Ops (NASA)
VEG-03 Chk and watering (NASA)
Cimon Sound and Camera Chk (ESA)

Systems:


Progress TORU Drill
Cygnus RoBOT OBT Self Study Session

Thursday, 11/15:
Payloads:


Food Acceptability (NASA)
LSG Gas Trap Degassing IFM-supply line (NASA)
Cimon Activation and checkout (ESA)
FROST1 Condensation and Corrosion removal (JAXA)
Meteor On-Board Training (NASA)

Systems: 

Cygnus Offset Grapple Practice
Cygnus Attached Phase Operations Review

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Making a documentary about life onboard the ISS
ECON-M. Observations and photo (Task list)
MORZE. Log Entry of Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
Auxiliary Computer System [ВКС] Laptops Antivirus Software Checkout and Report
Review of Cimon Big Picture Words
Cimon Battery Charging
Collecting condensate water samples from СРВ-К2М before Gas-Liquid Mixture Filter (ФГС) into Russian Samplers, initiate
СОЖ Maintenance
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
UDOD. Experiment Ops with DYKNANIYE-1 and SPRUT-2 Sets. Tagup with specialists
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) High Calibration
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Setup
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
In-Flight Maintenance Life Science Glovebox (LSG) Degas Hardware Gather
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – OCT Exam
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Stow
LMM MELFI Sample Retrieve
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
LMM Biophysics Plate 1 Installation
MORZE. Log Entry of Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
MORZE. Experiment setup
End discharge of the first Orlan 825М3 battery pack No.1267421121 (Stow 00073848R in ФГБ1ПГО_2_221_1) and start discharging the second pack No.1267421122 (00073849R, ФГБ1ПГО_2_221_1)
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
JEM Regenerative Heat Exchanger (RHX) Water Wipe
MPEG-2 video downlink test via KU-band in preparation to Progress 440 docking to the ISS.
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 1
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Evening Preparation Work
Health Maintenance System (HMS). Fundoscope Eye Examination
MERLIN 2 Desiccant Swap
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) High Calibration Closeout
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Tear Down and Stow

 