
NanoRacks Platform-3 Biorack Installation: Yui installed BioRack Experiment Controllers into NanoRacks Platform-3 today.  NanoRacks Platforms provide a multipurpose research facility on board the ISS that supports NanoRacks Modules installed in EXPRESS (EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station) racks by providing power and data transfer capabilities for investigations in microgravity.
 
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2J:  Lindgren replaced the last FLEX-2J Fiber Arm and the Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) fuel reservoir today as part of routine maintenance for the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR).  FLEX-2J studies the interactions of flames on the motion and ignition of millimeter-sized droplets. Results can provide fundamental insight into the physics of fuel burning, which improves computer models designed to reduce emissions and improve fuel consumption efficiency in space and on Earth.
 
Ocular Health Ocular and Cardiac Ultrasounds:  Yui and Lindgren performed ocular and cardiac ultrasounds as part of their series of Return minus 30 (R-30) day Ocular Health tests.   The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risks of microgravity-induced visual impairment and increased intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Twins Study:  In support of the Twins Study, Kelly collected urine samples over a 24 hour period and stowed them in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  This investigation is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of them experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body that are important in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
Cognition:  Kelly performed his Flight Day 233 session of the Cognition experiment today.  Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Large Format Motion Picture Camera (IMAX) Video Downlink:  Yui connected the IMAX Codex to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for downlink of recorded video files.  IMAX filmmakers intend to produce a three dimensional movie called A Perfect Planet, using ISS-based video and images to show how natural and human forces shape planet Earth. The film will also showcase NASA’s exploration efforts and highlight the ISS as a platform for scientific research and a stepping stone to deep space exploration.
 
Biochemical Profile:  Kelly continued his Flight Day 240 collections for the Biochem Profile investigation.  Samples were stowed in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a later flight. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
 
Sleep Log:  Kornienko recorded a Sleep Log entry.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Trace Contaminant Control System (TCCS) Maintenance:  Kelly replaced the Charcoal and Sorbent Beds on the Node 3 TCCS.  The Node 3 TCCS has been in service since delivery to ISS in 2009.  Charcoal and Sorbent Beds have limited operational life with preventative maintenance schedule to ensure contaminant removal capabilities.   The Lab TCCS is currently active while this maintenance activity is being performed.
 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Maintenance:  Kelly was scheduled to replace the Usage Rate Counter on the control panel within the WHC Rack.  During the installation, he encountered a clearance issue with the new unit.  The old unit was then re-installed and counter was reset.  Ground teams will be developing a forward plan for installing the new unit.  The Crew had reported that the counter was getting stuck between numerals on occasion.  An accurate usage rate count is required as maintenance and consumables are tracked based on these numbers.
 
Return Air Grill Cleaning:  As part of preventative maintenance, Yui removed and cleaned the return grille mesh covers within the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) and Japanese Experiment Logistics Module Pressurized Section (JLP).  This maintenance is performed every 180 days.
 
Port Solar Array Wing (SAW) Survey:  Lindgren configured a D4 camera in order to obtain photographs of the masts on the Port SAW. The photographs were taken from the Docking Compartment (DC)-1 window point of view and will be downlinked for ground team to assess.
 
Functional Cargo Block (FGB) Solar Array Photogrammetry:  Today, the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) cameras were used to complete the second part of the photogrammetric survey for the retracted Starboard FGB solar array.  The purpose of these surveys is to measure the absolute position of the current “as-retracted” state of the both the Starboard and Port FGB solar arrays in order to correct ground CAD models.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

TWIN – Urine Sample Collection
Morning Inspection, Laptop RS1(2) Reboot
Backup Control Center VSee Test
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Soyuz 717 Kazbek Fit Check
USND2 – Hardware Activation
USOS Window Shutter Close
VIBROLAB. Monitoring hardware activation
RELAKSATSIYA. Initiate camcorder battery charge
Still Camera Image Sensor inspection for contamination
24-hour ECG Monitoring
В3 Fan Screen Cleaning in DC1
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) – Initiate Leak Check
Ultrasound
Repairs of SM Interior Panel 321 by Installing Overlay Panels – Day 1
24-hour BP monitoring
TWIN – Urine Sample Collection
Ultrasound – Data Export to USB drive
Ultrasound 2 – Scan
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
IFM – In-flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 3 Trace Contaminant Control System (TCCS) Maintenance
Ultrasound – Data Export to USB drive
Hardware setup to capture starboard SA Flat Collector Circuit (FCC) from DC1
Photography of Starboard SA Flat Collector Circuit (FCC) through DC1 window
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
ОН – Cardiac Scan
Vacuum Cleaning of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in DC1
Log out of SSC Laptops 5 and 16 in preparation for ROBoT Ground Setup.
DOSIMETER – dosimeter pre-pack for return
ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filter Replacement and В1, В2 Fan Grille Cleaning in DC1 (ФГБ1ПГО_4_419_1 bag 429-16 (00068131R). Reflect changes in IMS)
Diagnostics of FGB СУБК instruments 11М156М
IMAХ – Connecting to SSC
USND2 – Hardware Deactivation
Photography of Starboard SA Flat Collector Circuit (FCC) through DC1 window
Cleaning ventilation screen in JEM
Video Footage of Greetings
TWIN – Urine Sample Collection
CIR – Rack Doors Open
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
IMAX – Terminate Battery Charge
СОЖ Maintenance
IMS Delta File Prep
Testing FGB СЭС БФ-2 and БСШ-2
CIR – Combustion Chamber Front Rack Door Open
NanoRacks – Platform 3 Controller Installation
MDCA – Hardware Replacement
HRF – Blood Collection Hardware Setup
VIBROLAB. Copy and Downlink Data
IMAX – Terminate Codex 512 GB Drive charge
РСПИ – Onboard Memory Device (БЗУ).  Photography
Diagnostics of Main Bus Assembly БСШ-2 & Filter Unit БФ-2 in the FGB Power Supply System
TWIN – Urine Sample Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
CIR chamber valve closure
SPRINT – Discretionary Exercise
CIR – Rack Doors Closure
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
PROBOY. БПАС Hard Drive Cleaning
HRF2 – Bench Setup
IMAX – Power Down
RELAKSATSIYA. Parameter Settings
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) – Leak Check Termination
COGN – Battery Test
RELAKSATSIYA. Observation
RELAKSATSIYA. Closeout Ops and Hardware Removal
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ECON-M. Observation and Photography

 
Completed Task List Items

Photo/TV Wireless Mircrophone Receiver Check
Network Attached Storage Location Assessment
N2 PCS Battery Changeout
CHeCS Rack Stowage Reconfiguration
SSC 1 Shell Swap
EHS TOCA Tape

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

FGB Stbd SAW Survey Part 2

 
