
Orbital 8 (OA-8) Capture/Berthing:  Monday night, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to inspect the Node 1 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM). They then maneuvered the SSRMS to the Cygnus high hover position in preparation for Cygnus capture. 
Early this morning, the crew monitored the Cygnus approach from the Cupola Robotic Workstation and at approximately 10:05 GMT they captured Cygnus. Robotics Ground Controllers then maneuvered Cygnus into position to support an inspection of its Passive CBM.  Following completion of the inspection, they maneuvered and installed it to the Node 1 Nadir Active CBM. The crew ingressed the vehicle at 17:23 GMT and will begin transferring cargo tomorrow. 
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Repository): A 51S crewmember completed Flight Day (FD) 120 urine sample collections to support the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Simulation of Geophysical Fluid Flow under Microgravity – 2 (Geoflow-2) Experiment Container De-installation: The GeoFlow-2 experiment container was removed by the crew from the Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) rack and stowed for disposal. The Geoflow-2 experiment studies heat and fluid flow currents within the Earth’s mantle. Geoflow-2 aims to improve computational methods that scientists and engineers use to understand and predict the processes in the Earth’s mantle that lead to volcanic eruptions, plate tectonics and earthquakes.
Augmented Reality Application for Maintenance, Inventory and Stowage (ARAMIS) Stowage Session: The crew set up a camcorder, connected to an iPad, and ran stowage sequences in the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM). The ARAMIS investigation demonstrates use of augmented reality technology to improve efficiency of operations aboard the space station. Crew time is a precious resource in space and this frees up more time for scientific research. The demonstration uses a single portable device to run preventive maintenance and stowage management or hardware searches. 
Earth Imagery from ISS Target Operations: Using the Red camera, the crew captured video footage of Australia at sunset. The Earth Imagery from ISS investigation creates a series of videos, showcasing Earth from space. These videos will be taken with cameras on the International Space Station in 6K hi-resolution, then integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement. 
Spare Latching End Effector (LEE)/Utility Transfer Assembly (UTA) Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) Swap:  Today, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and picked up the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) in preparation for tomorrow’s LEE/FRAM swap activities.  Tomorrow, they will remove the UTA from External Stowage Platform (ESP)-2 and translate the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Work Site (WS)-4 to WS-7. They then remove the LEE and install the UTA on ELC-1. The MT will then be translated back to WS-7 from WS-4 and the LEE will be installed on ESP-2. These activities are in preparation for EVAs planned next January. 
Node 1 High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) Filter Cleaning: The crew performed a deep cleaning of the Node 1 HEPA plenum. Recent imagery showed that the HEPA plenum area in Node 1 is collecting excessive dust and debris on the surface of the plenum as well as crevices around the filters. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


USOS Window Shutter Close
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
Robotics Workstation (RWS) Configuration
Virus Definition File Update on Auxiliary Computer System (ВКС) Laptops
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Powerup
Monitoring closure of shutters on SM windows 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14
Cygnus PCS Command and PROX Link Verification
Robotic Workstation (RWS) High Definition (HD) Monitor Downlink
Photo/TV Ghost Camera in Cuopla on SSC power recording
Cygnus R-BAR Approach
Replacement of СА325 Unit on Regul-OS 1st work station.
Soyuz 734 Kazbek Fit Check
VEG-03 Plant Photo
Install missing O-ring on Vacuum Access Jumper (VAJ) 35 foot.
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ [КОВ] for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
Environmental Health System (EHS) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collect
Demate СА325 unit telemetry data connectors.
Replacement of СА325 Unit on Regul-OS 1st workstation.
СОЖ Maintenance
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Cygnus Capture
Node 1 Airflow Cleaning and Configuration
GeoFlow Experiment Container Deinstallation
Inspection of DC1 surface materials for moisture and corrosion
Equipment Gather for ITCS Sampling and Maintenance Canister Installation in JPM
Polar Cygnus Uninstall, Transfer, And EXPRESS Rack Install Review
Light Installation at A/LOF1 location.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Coliform Water Processing
Mate СА325 telemetry connectors.
TOCA Buffer Container (BC) Changeout
RS ISS Internal Lights Audit
TOCA Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
Remote Workstation Monitor HD Video Downlink Deactivation RWS.
Ghost camera teardown in Cupola
Node 1 Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Removal
Crew clears stowage from specified locations in PMM in preparation for Augmented Reality Stowage operations.
Cygnus/Node 1 Pressurization and Leak Check
ARAMIS Stowage Session
PROBOY. RSЕ1 Laptop Ops.
PROBOY. Penetration Simulator Ops
Node 1 Nadir to Cygnus Vestibule Outfitting, Part 1
PROBOY. Copy and Downlink Data
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Stow
PCS Laptop Relocate
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
ISS HAM Video Power Up
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
IMS Update
Crew returns stowage items to original location in PMM after Augmented Reality operations.
Conduct a checkout of Skype on a Sidekick Device
Probiotics Item Gathering
Cygnus PROX Switch OFF 

Completed Task List Activities

Rendezvous and Prox Ops Program (RPOP) Setup
VEG-03 Plant Pillow Water

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


 Cygnus berthing support

