11-12-2010November 12, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/12/10 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. At wake-up, FE-1 Kaleri conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Alex again inspects the filters before bedtime (4:30pm EST) tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.] CDR Wheelock & FE-6 Walker conducted the 3rd onboard JAXA HAIR experiment (their 2nd, after Soichi Noguchi & TJ Creamer’s first), each one taking hair samples of the other, then inserting them into MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) at -95 degC and closing out the activity. After yesterday’s completion of all Orlan-MK suit preparations, EVA-26 Dry-run activities began today at ~2:50am EST with FE-2 Skripochka tearing down & removing the air ducts between the SM PkhO (Service Module Transfer Compartment) and DC1 Docking Compartment/airlock, including their V3 ventilation fan, to make room for the subsequent suited exercise.     [Removals included the IP-1 airflow sensor in the hatch between PkhO & DC1, reinstalled afterwards.] At the same time, FE-5 Yurchikhin worked on configuring the STTS communications systems in the DC1 for the exercise.     [The suited run requires wireless Tranzit-B suit radio telemetry on both semi-sets (activated: ~3:20am).  Tranzit-B TM was turned off after the checkout.]  After another functionality & leak check of the Orlan-MK suits, their equipment and their BSS interface units in the DC1 & PkhO, Fyodor & Oleg began donning EVA gear at ~4:10am, i.e., putting on personal gear bags, biomed harness, thermal underwear, LCG (liquid cooling garment), low-noise headset, gloves, etc. After more checkouts of comm hookups & biomedical parameter telemetry via the BSS Orlan interface system for vital signs & equipment monitoring, suiting up then culminated in ingress in the Orlans (~5:00am) through their “backdoors” and sealing off of the backpacks. Next in line were –More functionality checkouts of the suits and their BSS controls (e.g., temperature control handling, water cooling system ops, preliminary Orlan & BSS leak checks), Preliminary dimensional suit fit checks at reduced suit pressure of 0.4 atm (5.9 psi), and About 1.5h of testing/training of suited mobility & translation inside the DC1, beginning at ~5:40am. [These “intramural” exercises included translation to all DC1 work stations with mated fluid umbilical, assessment of how the interior DC1 config impacts operations with various gear & accessories such as the POV (EVA support panel) and BSS, moving the BRT (Body Restraint Tether) with a CLB (Crew Lock Bag) and securing the BRT on a handrail, retrieving the Kodak 760 camera from the KPU tool carrier and stowing it temporarily on the OTA swing arm, etc.  The dry-run was successful; no major issues were reported.] Oleg & Fyodor’s egress from their Orlan-MKs was at about 7:30am, followed by restoration of communication settings in the DC1 to nominal ops and post-training close-out activities, including air duct assembly. Afterwards, FE-2 & FE-5 replaced the Orlan replaceable elements, filling the water tanks and generally readying their spacesuits for Monday’s spacewalk.  Preparations were also conducted in the MRM2 Poisk module which will be close off for the EVA-26 with Alex & Scott inside. After the dry-run, CDR Wheelock turned around (readied) the NIKON D2Xs cameras for Monday’s EVA. Also in support of EVA-26, Doug worked with Kapton tape, scissors and tape measure to create an extension for the pull tab on the US REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly) which allows activation of the battery’s power switch once it is installed in the Orlan-MK. Wheelock performed troubleshooting on the HMM (Hand Held Microphone, #5097) and its attached HICA (HHM/ISS Cable Assembly, #5082), with voice checks with MCC-Houston which were successful.     [Ground teams believe the previous problems were due to a bad connector seat.]  Afterwards, the CDR conducted the periodic manual filling of the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) EDV-SV flush water tank in Node-3, which took about 27 min.     [As always, WHC was unavailable during this time.] Later, Doug downloaded & saved the ECG (Electrocardiograph) data recorded for the last 24 hrs from his 3rd session, started yesterday, with the JAXA biomedical experiment BIORHYTHMS (Biological Rhythms) and its body-worn digital Walk Holter ECG.     [BIORHYTHMS was performed by Walker & Wheelock, with 3 data collection sessions for each of them.  Body mass was measured with SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device).  Each session collected 24 hrs worth of ECG data.  On Day 1, the Holter ECG harness was donned for recording.  On Day 2, it was removed, and the ECG data were downloaded to the MLT (Microgravity Laptop terminal).] Wheels, Shannon & Scott filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.] Alex Kaleri set up the new Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal) with its electromagnetic unit and replaceable container for another run and initiated operation.  The hardware was later disassembled and stowed, and the video/camcorder footage downlinked.      [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.] Afterwards, Kaleri conducted the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors/meters in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways, skipping Soyuz hatches.     [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PrK–Progress, PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment) – RO, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.] In the SM, FE-1 set up the Russian BTKh-43 KONSTANTA (#11) payload, delivered on Progress 40P, then performed the 2nd run of the experiment.     [BTKh-43, comprising the Recomb-K hybridizer bioreactor plus photo & video equipment with two SPR-1 portable lights, studies potential effects of spaceflight factors and their nature on the activity of a model enzyme relative to a specific substrate (bioreactors are specialized hardware for growing, cells, tissues, and microorganisms).] Later, Sasha completed the periodic transfer of condensate water to an RS EDV container for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen & hydrogen, filling the designated KOV (condensate water) EDV container from a CWC (Contingency Water Container).  When filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.     [The ~40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the Elektron’s BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.] In preparation for his lockout in MRM2 on Monday, FE-3 Kelly set batteries aside for the T61p SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop he will use during that time. Later, Scott continued his support of the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment), reviewing procedures for the second part of CFE VG1 (Vane Gap 1) ops, powering up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) for real-time viewing by POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) and setting up the hardware, i.e., unstowing, preparing the MWA (Maintenance Work Area), securing the hardware on the MWA, and positioning the HD camcorder.  Scott then conducted another 2-hr VG1 fluid test runs using a wet surface, which, unlike his earlier (11/8) tests, are repeatable.   About 2 hrs later, FE-3 shut the experiment down again.      [CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  VG is one of three CFE experiments, the others being ICF and CL (Contact Line).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.] Wheels & Scott worked in the US A/L (Airlock), performing periodic maintenance on EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) 3010 by cycling its PPRV (Positive Pressure Relief Valve) and the relief valves on both SCOFs (Secondary Oxygen Package Checkout Fixtures). Also in the A/L, Doug terminated the maintenance discharge on EMU batteries in the BSA BC3 (Battery Stowage Assembly / Battery Charger 3) and BC4.    [The periodic battery maintenance consists of fully discharging and then recharging the storage units to prolong their useful life.  After end of the maintenance cycle, Doug will restore the SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop, which is used in DOS mode for the automated discharge procedure, to nominal ops.  In the early ISS years, these battery discharges/recharges had to be done manually.] FE-3 performed the weekly check of the running SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment) payload in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and reported on KUBIK-6 incubator status & temperature.      [Located in the EDR (European Drawer Rack), SPHINX studies how HUVEC (Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells) modify their behavior in microgravity, which could provide better knowledge of endothelial function and be useful for clinical applications.  Endothelial cells make up a thin layer lining the interior surface of blood vessels and forming an interface between the circulating blood in the hollow space (“lumen”) of the vessel and the rest of the vessel wall.  They line the entire circulatory system, from the heart to the smallest capillary, and reduce turbulence of the flow of blood, allowing the fluid to be pumped farther.] Working on the Russian “Istochnik-M” (Source, Spring) telemetry reception & recording system (SPR TMI) in the SM, Kaleri removed & replaced its power amplifier.     [Istochnik-M enables the ISS to receive data telemetered from Soyuz spacecraft during return to Earth and record it on the SPR telemetry system.  The equipment, including the Istochnik TM station, power amplifiers, power supply, USB software sticks and cables, captures the telemetry through the “Sputnik” amateur (ham) radio antenna and transfers it to a laptop display where the crew is able to immediately tell if a good separation of the three Soyuz modules occurred during Soyuz descent operations.  Purpose of today’s replacement was to minimize high Earth background noise in the frequency band of interest and to maximize the S/N (signal-to-noise) ratio plus enhance input TLM signal level received by the Sputnik omnidirectional antennas on ISS.  ]. Alex also performed his 2nd data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.      [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.] Shannon Walker underwent, as subject, her 5th (and last) Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment with exercise (on CEVIS), assisted by Wheels as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) in preparing the Actiwatches, electrode sites, attaching the harness, donning the Cardiopres, and taking documentary pictures.      [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist & ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Shannon started the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise, preferably on the CEVIS cycle ergometer, includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan includes an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.] Afterwards, Shannon Walker worked in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) on the JEM RMS (Robotic Manipulator System) for a checkout of the BDS (Backup Drive System), connecting cables and powering up the RLT (Robotics Laptop Terminal) and BUC (Backup Controller).  After the checkout and worksite cleanup, the cabling was configured for RLT downlink. Afterwards, FE-6 Walker –Performed ARC (Archive) data retrieval for the T2/COLBERT exerciser, transferring a log data file while the software was running, to the file server for downlink,Offloaded condensate water via T-hose from a CWC-I (Iodine) to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) water storage tank for processing  [a 30-min operation], andRetrieved a 300mL sample from the WPA WWT (Waste Water Tank) via process line B, after a 300mL purge of the sampling line (purge water was reclaimed). Kaleri completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Sasha also did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.] The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.] WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC water audit.      [The new card (25-0001C) lists 123 CWCs (2,744.7L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (28 CWCs with 1170.0 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 712.7 L in 17 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 300.1 L in 7 bags for flushing only with microbial filter, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (84 CWCs with 1,548.2 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (6.3 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 7 empty bags; and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (20.2 L in 1 CWC from hose/pump flush & 1 empty bag).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today. 