11-14-2009November 14, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/14/09  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – light-duty day for the crew.  FE-1 Suraev did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which he had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters tonight at bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  The two Russian flight engineers spent about three hours each on unloading & transferring cargoes from the Progress M-MRM2 vehicle, based on IMS (Inventory Management System) information.  Bob Thirsk concluded his fifth ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity.    [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]  Nicole Stott set up the photographic equipment, broken out yesterday, for the moon photography required by the JAXA EPO (Educational Programs Operation) “ISS Moon Score” and afterwards conducted the shooting at two precise pre-set times.     [The purpose of this JAXA EPO is to create a musical score using moon photos taken from the “Kibo” JPM and DC1 windows at different times in the lunar cycle while the crew is floating naturally under microgravity environment.  Five of the seven sessions required for each different Moon age were taken by Greg Chamitoff and Koichi Wakata, the remainder by Tim Kopra.  At least 80 photos were necessary from DC-1 no. 2 window with the 400mm lens, and at least 80 photos of the Moon with atmospheric layer and/or JEF (JEM External Facility) are desirable from JEM window #F8 with the 200mm lens.  Nicole’s new shots were a special request from the Japanese artist.]  Jeff Williams performed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC laptops.  Later, Williams re-installed the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) lock-down alignment guides on the FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility) in the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) which he had removed yesterday to allow PaRIS activation for ground-commanded FCF ops in micro-G.   At ~8:25am EST, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  As a VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) contribution to research, Bob Thirsk set up the hardware for another BISE (Bodies in the Space Environment) experiment run, then worked through the protocol.      [The CSA (Canadian Space Agency)-sponsored BISE experiment studies how astronauts perceive Up and Down in microgravity, investigating the relative contributions of internal & external cues to self-orientation during and after micro-G exposure.  BISE data collection must be performed at least one hour after any exercise.  The specific objective of the BISE project is to conduct experiments during long-duration micro-G conditions to better understand how humans first adapt to micro-G and then re-adapt to normal gravity conditions upon return to earth.  This experiment involves comparisons of preflight, flight, and post-flight perceptions and mental imagery, with special reference to spaceflight-related decreases in the vertical component of percepts.  The test involves having subjects view a computer screen through a cylinder that blocks all other visual information. The astronauts are being presented with background images with different orientations relative to their bodies.  The Principal Investigator informed the crew recently: “We are excited to notice, even in this incomplete data set, some differences in the effect of vision on the perception of "up" compared to the before-flight trials, especially in the first few weeks after arrival.”]  Roman Romanenko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  At ~10:45am & 12:45pm EST, Maxim & Roman conducted a PAO telephone interview with a correspondent of Sovetsky Sport Magazine.    [The most important selection tournament for 2010 soccer championship will take place on 11/14 at Luzhniki stadium in Moscow.  All-Russian team will play with Slovenian team.  Sovetsky Sport-Soccer magazine correspondent, Dmitry Tumanov, conducted two telephone conferences to give Maxim & Roman soccer match progress report.  He will stay at TsUP for the entire duration of the match and be ready to comment on the game and answer all questions.]  The crew performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2, FE-4), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), T2 treadmill (CDR, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).  Later, Frank De Winne transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).  A 3-hr activity has been scheduled on Romanenko’s & Suraev’s task list over the weekend to remove some material from the SM zenith hatch, bag it, and vacuum the remnants.  This yellow material, MLI (Multi-Layer Insulation) and Aramid fabric, was discovered on opening the SM zenith hatch, lining the inside of the vestibule hatch.  It had been exposed to space since SM launch and the crew reported that it was crumbling when touched.  They donned goggles and face masks, cleaned the debris and took photos.  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-One -- Week 5)  3-D SPACE:    “Thank you, Bob, for completing your final session of 3D-SPACE. We are looking forward to post-flight measurements now!”  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA DOSI (NASA/ASI):    “Another week has flown by (pun intended) and another week of nominal activity.  We are continuing to obtain radiation data which expands on the data received from the primary ISS radiation monitoring system.  Thank you for supporting our operations.  Although benign, we are obtaining valuable science and research.”  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):    “Bob, as you know, sample 6 re-homogenization on Monday went very well; the illumination and focus were perfect.  Phase separation began to be apparent about an hour after the mix!  Barbara and Art are very pleased with the 10-min image frequency – a real benefit.  The new flash orientation is also fully satisfactory.  Crystals are readily visible without affecting the phase change visibility.  The setup should remain adequate until Saturday unless the flash power starts dropping. Sample 7 homogenization is scheduled for Saturday and we’ll be in the PTOC on-console supporting your work.  We look forward to the new images but may not have access until Monday. Have a nice weekend.”  BIOLAB (ESA):    No report.  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    “Finished.  We complete the data collection.  Thank you, Bob & Frank for your cooperation”  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.   BISPHOSPHONATES:   “Bob, thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Your next session is scheduled for 11/16. Your pill ingestions are currently scheduled after your post sleep period.  As a constraint reminder, the pills must be taken prior to eating to be effective.  Jeff, thanks for completing your pill ingestion.  Your next session is scheduled for 11/15.  Per your request, your pill ingestions are currently scheduled after your post sleep period.  As a constraint reminder, the pills must be taken prior to eating to be effective.”  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    “Thank you, Frank, for swiftly completing your CARD session last week.”  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:   “This Experiment had started on 9/10.  Cultivation of the plants was performed in the PEU/CBEF for 62 days and finished 11/11.  Experiment was successfully performed from germination to harvesting despite the CBEF troubles.  On behalf of all teams, and PI, we greatly appreciate all support for this experiment.  PI team is just waiting for the sample return.  Again, Thank you.”  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    “Bob, since ICV data is shared with CCISS, please refer to your ICV status below.”  CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment):    Reserve.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Complete.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    On Monday, 11/9, CIR completed three successful test point runs.  The use of the new fiber arm was not possible due to a misalignment of the hard stop, but test points without the fiber were completed and will continue to be scheduled until the fiber arm adjustment can be made once a new crew procedure gets through the system and the crew is in the chamber for a scheduled activity.”  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    Complete.  Commercial 2 (JAXA):   Completed.  Commercial 3 (JAXA):   Completed.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.  DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.  DOSIS (ESA):    No report.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    The rack is continuously active in support of the Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility (PCDF) experiment. EDR is providing power/data and temperature control (via cooling loop) to PCDF.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    No report.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA):    No report.  EPO LES-3 (ESA):    No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):   Ongoing.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):  The sample was transferred to MELFI.  EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.   EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   “Session #8 is scheduled on Friday (prep) and Saturday.  We appreciate you performing this task on Saturday.”  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):  “No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  EuTEF (European Technology Exposure Facility):   With landing of 17A on 9/11, EuTEF platform was returned to the ground.  FACET (JAXA):   No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):    “On Monday, 11/9, Nicole and Bob completed the initial part of the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) component installations.  It was a great team effort that got the job done ahead of schedule and we look forward to more opportunities to finish the installation in the next few weeks.  Thanks very much to Nicole and Bob for their effort to put FIR that much closer to being ready to run science operations!”.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   “Thank you, Frank, for completing the FOAM-STABILITY runs as Voluntary Science.”   FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory):  MMA measurements performed to support Flywheel check-out.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):   No report.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):    “Bob, as this week wraps up, you are in the middle of your last ICV ambulatory monitoring session.  he ICV team is sad to see your stay on ISS coming to an end as we could not have asked for a better first subject to kick off the study. However, we are also eagerly anticipating your return since your post-flight data will provide insight into cardiac re-adaptation upon re-exposure to Earth’s gravity. A repair plan is in work for the HRF Ultrasound and ground personnel are working hard to implement that plan in time to obtain your final resting echo scan. We will keep you posted as to the status of these efforts.  Nicole, next week marks the planned start of your final ICV ambulatory monitoring session.  We look forward to another successful on-orbit session and to future post-flight BDC with another exceptional ICV subject.  Jeff, your FD30 ICV session (both echo and ambulatory monitoring) is now complete!  Thanks for keeping us in the loop about recording start times.  Your efforts to provide quality data for the study are very much appreciated!”  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:  No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA):    “We have trouble in the UVP equipment and decided to abort the scheduled experiment.  Troubleshooting plan is now being studied by the Marangoni Engineering team.  It will take some time.  We will do our best to re- start the UVP as soon as possible in this increment.”  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    System checkout is ongoing.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):   Postponed because of sample cassette failure.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MDS (Mice Drawer System):   “Ciao a tutti / Hello to all:  Thank you, Nicole, Bob and team, for helping to provide the MDS teams throughout Italy and in the US with another good week reflected by the health of the mice and the nominal functioning of the facility.  The STS 129 / ULF-3 crew has gone into quarantine hoping to launch soon and return our mice and their primary care provider.  We will be most happy to see you all return safely.  Thank you for the work you continue to do on our behalf.”  Microbe-1 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE (Materials ISS Experiment):  Ongoing.  Moon Photography from ISS (JAXA EPO):   No report.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox):    Complete.  MSL (Materials Science Laboratory):    “The processing of the MICAST#4 SCA was successfully completed on 11/07.”  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY:    “Nicole, thanks for the great work in completing your Nutrition/Repository sessions.  We have received all of the information that you placed in crew notes from these sessions and are very thankful.  It has truly been a pleasure working with you and having you participate in the in-flight operations for these experiments.”  PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):   No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    PCG samples were returned by Soyuz 18S and transported to JAXA.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    Complete.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA):   RadSilk experiment has started.  Sortie sample (launch control sample) was returned by 17A.  RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):   “Jeff, thank you for participating in Reaction Self Test!”  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):   (from CSA): “Bob, Frank, the SAMS accelerometer in the MSG was down last week. We are back on-line this week supporting SODI-IVIDIL operations. We look forward to analyzing the data over the next week or so. Thanks.”  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Nominal.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):   “All, we are currently targeting next week for your next week of sleep logging.  Bob, we will status Friday’s Actiwatch download next week.”  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):    No report.  SMILES (JAXA):    No report.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in. Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):     Sun observation window started on 10/15 and ended on 10/28.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):   No report.  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):    No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.  SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):   No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):     No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VO2max (NASA):     “Frank, thanks for all your hard work performing VO2max this week!  We got great data and look forward to seeing you post-flight.  You have now completed your in-flight sessions for VO2max!  Bob, thanks for all your hard work performing VO2max this week!  We got great data and look forward to seeing you post-flight.  We got your comment regarding the alternative nose clip and we're planning to send up more in the near future.  You have now completed your in-flight sessions for VO2max!  Jeff, thanks for the assistance verifying the PPFS communication capabilities during your VO2max session this week.  We were able to bring all the data down and the PIs will look at it this week.”  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    VLE-1 completed.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observations):    Through 11/10, the ground has received a total of 15,409 frames of ISS-21 CEO imagery for review and cataloguing.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of imagery for the following CEO Target Requests:  Cairo, Egypt – target located and acquired – too much cloud contamination; Northern Isle of France, Mauritius – several useful frames of this target, but there were too many clouds to meet requirements; Jakarta, Indonesia – to many clouds again; and All Saints Bay, Salvador Brazil – 50 frames under evaluation.  Keep trying guys, more targets and better weather lie ahead!    Your awesome and timely view of Upsala Glacier, Argentina will be published on NASA/GSFC’s Earth Observatory website this weekend.  This large Patagonian Glacier has its terminus as Lake Argentino where it sheds large quantities of ice each spring and summer.  Several of your photos document a recent significant event where at least two large icebergs that display the visible remains of glacial moraines (rock fragments), a first in our 9-year series of observations of this glacier.  You have provided very nice and rare documentation of this specialized transport of ice-eroded material.  Kudos to the crew!”  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Mekong River Delta (ISS had an early afternoon pass over the delta of one of the world’s major rivers and a key agricultural area for Southeast Asia.  The dry season is underway and fair weather was expected for this nadir pass approaching from the SW.  Documenting the land use of this delta with context views of the estuary islands and interior plains), Moroni, Comoros (this small capital city of just over 60,000 is in the Comoro archipelago located in northern Mozambique Channel between Madagascar and the mainland of Africa.  This early afternoon pass offered a near-nadir pass in fair weather over this target.  As ISS crossed the northern coast of Mozambique, the crew was to look for the target on the west coast of the large volcanic island of Comoro), Manama, Bahrain (Bahrain is an island nation near the western shore of the central Persian Gulf.  The capital city of Manama with a population nearing 200,000 dominates the northeastern part of the main island.  This nadir pass of this target was in mid-afternoon with clear weather expected.  As ISS approached the coast from the SW, the crew was to try for views of the entire city), N'Djamena, Chad (ISS approach to this target was from the SW in early afternoon under fair skies.  The capital city of Chad is located on the Lagone River approximately 100 miles southeast of Lake Chad.  N’Djamena is a rapidly growing city of nearly 1 million now.  Acquiring nadir views of the entire city), Bamako, Mali (the capital of Mali is a rapidly growing city approaching 2 million in population.  It is situated on the Niger River in the southwestern part of the country.  ISS approach was from the SW in mid-afternoon under fair skies and offers a nadir view of the target), Tin Bider Impact Crater, Algeria (this target is located in the desert area east central Algeria.  ISS had a nadir pass in mid-afternoon with fair weather expected.  This young, small impact is only 6 kilometers in diameter and remains a challenging target for crews.  As ISS approached from the SW, the crew was to look for a small, prominent feature south of the large dune field known as the Grand Erg Oriental), and Port au Prince, Haiti (the Haitian capital is a port city on the southeastern shore of the Gulf of Gonave and has an estimated population approaching 3 million.  ISS had a near nadir pass at mid-afternoon with only partly cloudy conditions expected.  As the station approached the mountainous southern peninsula of Hispaniola, the crew was to look for the city just right of track near the southeastern part of the gulf).  