
Cell Mechanosensing-3:  Yui set up the Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Experiment Laptop Terminal (ELT) in preparation for Cell Mechanosensing-3 operations that will be performed after the arrival of investigation samples on the SpaceX-8 in January, 2016.  He exchanged the laptop hard drive and installed cables between the MSPR Small Experiment Area and the laptop.  Identification of gravity sensors in skeletal muscle cells during Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency’s (JAXA’s) Cell Mechanosensing investigation will support development of countermeasures against muscle atrophy, a significant health issue for humans in space. Scientists believe that the lack of mechanical stress from gravity causes tension fluctuations in the plasma membrane of skeletal muscle cells, which changes the expression of key proteins and genes and allows muscles to atrophy. Muscle cells from rats and kidney cells from African clawed frogs are tagged with fluorescent gene markers and attached to an extracellular matrix to study their performance under different tensions that simulate their use on earth.
 
Observation and Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS) Glycerol/Water Fill:  Due to a malfunction with the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) slide mechanism that allows the MSG work volume to be extended for crew access, Kononenko was unable to inject glycerol and water into the current OASIS sample under study.  While an investigation had begun to resolve the MSG problem, the OASIS ground experts decided to continue the investigation with the untreated OASIS sample.  OASIS studies the unique behavior of liquid crystals in microgravity, including their overall motion and the merging of crystal layers known as smectic islands. Liquid crystals are used for display screens in televisions and clocks, and they also occur in soaps and cell membranes. The experiment allows detailed studies of the behavior of these structures, and how microgravity affects their unique ability to act like both a liquid and a solid crystal.
 
Sleep Log:  Kornienko recorded a Sleep Log entry today.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Stow:  Kelly and Lindgren stowed tools which were used earlier this month as part of the P6 Return To Original Configuration (RTOC) EVA #33.
 
Soyuz 43 Imagery:  Yui configured a D4 camera in order to obtain high resolution imagery of the Soyuz 43 Descent Module, currently docked to Mini-Research Module (MRM)-1. The images will be downlinked to the ground and used for Micrometeoroid/Orbital Debris (MMOD) risk mitigation.
 
Lab Window Cleaning:  Lindgren cleaned the inboard surface of LAB Primary Pressure Pane.  The cleaning was performed in preparation for the METEOR Payload which will be installed in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF) targeted to arrive early 2016 onboard SpaceX-9.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and performed a survey of the Functional Cargo Block (FGB) Starboard Solar Array Wing (SAW).  FGB SAW surveys will continue tomorrow.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Biochemical Urine Test
SPLANH.  REFLOTRON-4 Analyzer Setup, Biochemistry Study, Start EGEG Recording
SPLANH. Photography of the Experiment Ops
Biochemical Urine Test
URISYS Hardware Stowage
Leak isolation in Orlan-MK suit 4 and suit 6 backup bladder
MSPR – Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Hard Drive Changeout
OCT Hardware Setup
US EVA Tool Stow
MSPR ELT
MSPR Hardware Activation
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV. Inspect and separate EDV
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT)
СОЖ Maintenance
SPLANH. Blood Biochemistry Analysis
OCT Hardware Stowage
Spacesuit and БСС (Orlan Interface Unit) leak checks and Orlan 5 valve test
Start BSA Battery Charge
Orlan Suit 5 Backup Bladder Leak Check
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
HABIT – Video during the Experiment [Deferred]
OASIS – Filling container with water and glycerol
US EVA Tool Stow
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill [Deferred]
Soyuz 717 Photos from DC1 and Cupola
Lab Window Cleaning
MELF2 – Ice Brick Insertion into MELFI
Test activation of Vozdukh Atmosphere Purification System Emergency Vacuum Valves [АВК СОА]
Recovery of Orlan 4 ventilation system
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Intravehicular Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter (IV-TEPC) Relocate
IMS Delta File Prep
CIR – Hardware Setup
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
MDCA – Preparation of MWA Surface Area
Repairs of SM Interior Panel 310 by Installing Overlay Panels – Day 2
Preparation for diagnostics of power supply system (СЭС) and onboard complex control system (СУБК) units in FGB, review of crew procedures and radiograms
HAM radio session from Columbus
PAO Event with the 1 Year Mission crew
US EVA Tool Stow
HRF1- Data Export
MSPR – Payload Closeout Ops
Fundoscope Exam Setup (Ophthalmoscope)
TWIN – Hardware Setup
Preparing for БИТС2-12 ДКЦ2Б15 Device Replacement (locating equipment, r/g review)
Fundoscope Examination
Start BSA Battery Charge
Equipment stowage after Fundoscope Eye Imaging (Ophthalmoscope)
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
URAGAN Observations and Photography

 
Completed Task List Items

Robot Startup
WHC KTO Replace
JLP Hardware Consolidate

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal Commanding

 
