
Human Research Program (HRP) Saliva Collection:  Wilmore performed a salivary collection and inserted the sample into MELFI.  These sample collections were in support of participation in the HRP experiments: Biochem Profile, Repository, and Cardio Ox. 
Zebrafish Muscle Post Operations:  Wilmore disassembled the Aquatic Habitat (AQH) from within the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Work Volume following the return of the zebrafish on Soyuz 39 (39S) and the completion of the Zebrafish Muscle experiment.  He then removed and stowed the AQH components including Water Circulation Unit, Aquatic Habitat Controller, Air Pump, Gas Exchanger, Bio Filter, Aquariums, Cameras and Light from the MSPR.  Zebrafish looks at whether atrophy of muscles under the condition of microgravity also occurs in zebrafish and why their atrophy occurs in the microgravity.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sampling:  Wilmore obtained a warm sample of the potable water bus today. The sample was stowed for return to the ground on a later date.
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Deactivation:  With only 3 crew members onboard after 39S undock, the Node 3 CDRA was deactivated yesterday. Carbon Dioxide (CO2) scrubbing is being performed by the Russian Segment Vozdukh in Manual Mode 6.
Possible Conjunction with Object #39372: Ground teams evaluated tracking data throughout the day for a possible conjunction with Object #39372 (Yaogan 12 Debris). The debris is small, experiences about twice as much drag as ISS and is reasonably well tracked. Time of Closest Approach (TCA) will be tomorrow, November 12, at 8:40am CST. A decision whether or not to perform a Predetermined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM) will be made overnight after additional tracking data is received. If the decision is made to perform the maneuver, the Time of Ignition (TIG) would occur on Wednesday at 6:20am.  The PDAM can be executed without impacting the Soyuz 41S 4-orbit rendezvous, currently scheduled for November 23rd.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.


Morning Inspection. Laptop RS1(2) & RSS2 Reboot
Inspection of СМ-У connector on МНР-НС separator pump in АСУ
HRF – Sample collection and preparation for insertion
HRF – Sample Blood MELFI Insertion
Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
WRS Water Sample Analysis
Elektron-VM Liquid Unit Pressurization before Activation
URAGAN. Tagup with P/L investigators (S-band)
EML – Camcorder Config
TOCA Data Recording
TOCA Waste Water Bag (WWB) Changeout
Sampling of the Potable Water Bus using 1 L bags
MOST – Reconfiguration of Terminal Laptop
Zebrafish – Reconfiguration
REFLOTRON hardware setup

Completed Task List Items

Crew Arrival Preparations
HRF2 Puff Syringe Maintenance
ISERV Video Mode for normal imaging

Ground Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.

Nominal Commanding 

