
Salivary Markers:  This morning, Wilmore completed a Salivary Marker questionnaire.  The Effects of Long-Term Exposure to Microgravity on Salivary Markers of Innate Immunity investigation involves the collection of blood, saliva, urine and a health assessment on six subjects pre-, in- and post-flight to determine if spaceflight induced immune system dysregulation increases infection susceptibility or poses a significant health risk to crewmembers onboard the International Space Station. The investigation utilizes a longitudinal, repeated measures design to determine the effects of long-term exposure to microgravity on a host of salivary antimicrobial proteins (AMPs), latent viral reactivation, antibacterial properties of saliva, and blood markers associated with innate host immune defense.
















 
3D Printing in Zero-G:  Wilmore performed steps to set up the 3D Printer hardware in the Micro-gravity Science glovebox (MSG) Work Volume in preparation for printing.  In addition, the crew exchanged filters and then activated the MSG Facility to support MSG payload operations.  After setting up the 3D Printer hardware in the MSG, the crew monitored the printing of a coupon (sample) to calibrate the 3D printer. Late in the printing process, the coupon separated from the print tray and the Payload Developer (PD) issued a stop command.  The team is standing down for the day and will assess forward steps.  The 3-D Printing In Zero-G technology demonstration experiment will show that a 3-D printer can work normally in space. A 3-D printer extrudes streams of heated plastic, metal or other material, building layer on top of layer to create three-dimensional objects. Testing a 3-D printer on the International Space Station is the first step towards establishing a working machine shop in space, a critical component for astronaut missions and in-space manufacturing.
 
JEM Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST) apply Epoxy Putty:  Earlier this year the crew reported corrosion on the inside of the JEM FROST Cooler 1 sample box lid.  Today, Wilmore applied Epoxy Putty over the corrosion to prevent the corrosion from spreading.  
 
Today’s Planned Activities   
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 
·         Laptop RSS1, RSS2, RS1(2) Reboot, BRI Temperature Check 
·         SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test 
·         Inspection of СМ-У connector on МНР-НС separator pump in АСУ 
·         WRS Water Sample Analysis
·         SALMARK – Health Assessment Questionnaire
·         Checkout of Electric valves in ПК3 panel
·         Screw Clamp Tightening on MRM1 side 
·         Replacement of 800А АБ Module No.6 in SM 
·         VIZIR. Experiment Ops. 
·         3DP – Equipment Setup
·         MSG – Filter Replacement
·         Study of cardiovascular system under graded physical load on VELO 
·         Locating the kit for SM 800А storage battery No. 6 air duct repair 
·         БСПН setting adjustment for nominal ИУС setup. Tagup with specialists
·         TOCA Data Recording
·         VIZIR. Experiment Ops
·         JEM – Inspection of Freezer-Refrigerator for corrosion 
·         3DP Hardware Setup
·         KHIMIYA OBRAZOVANIYE. Sfera-F Session Ops
·         Preparing for ТА251М (ЛКТ1А3) Replacement 
·         Counter Measure System (CMS) Harmful Contaminant Measurements in SM 
·         TVS MPEG2 Multicast Streaming Test via KU OCA – US Comm Unit 
·         ISS RS Atmosphere Analysis Using АОК ГАНК-4М 
·         KHIMIYA OBRAZOVANIYE. Closeout Ops
·         3DP – Printed Coupon Removal and Stowage [Aborted]
 
Completed Task List Items
·          Ipad deployment
 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 
·         Nominal Ground Commanding
 
