11-16-2010November 16, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/16/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Wake – 6:00am EST (day shortened by 5 hrs); Sleep – 4:30pm (returning to nominal).  The Russian Orlan EVA-26 by FE-2 Oleg Skripochka & FE-5 Fyodor Yurchikhin concluded successfully last night at 4:22pm EST, with a total duration of 6h 27m (begin: 9:55am).  It was the first EVA to utilize the Orlan telemetry via S-Band matching unit, instead of executing the EVA on VHF over RGS (Russian Ground Sites).   Russian EVA specialists reported successful telemetry throughout the EVA, i.e., also over CONUS (Continental US). Tasks completed by the spacewalkers were –  Installation of the URM-D portable multipurpose workstation in Plane IV (starboard) on the SM RO l.d. (Service Module Working Compartment large diameter); Removal of the ESA/German ROKVISS hardware and stowing it in DC-1 (Docking Compartment 1); Installation of SKK removable exposure plates on MRM2;Installation of DC-1 Gap SpannerCollecting four samples from underneath MLI (Multi-Layered Insulation) at two locations: (1) on the SM l.d. near the Elektron hydrogen-vent, (2) on the DC-1; purpose: looking for the existence of bio-organisms and FORP (Fuel/Oxidizer Reactive Products) beneath MLI; andRemoval of the MRM1 TV camera from the zenith location and bringing it inside the DC-1 for future EVA deployment (Note: camera could not be relocated on the MRM1 and installed as planned due to interference with some insulation at the final site).    Today at day’s begin, FE-1 Kaleri conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Alex again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  As part of the crew’s regular morning inspection tour, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the routine checkup of circuit breakers & fuses in the MRM2 & MRM1 modules.     [The monthly checkup in the “Poisk” & “Rassvet” modules looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 & BPP-36.]  CDR Wheelock continued his current 4-day session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), his 4th onboard run, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.      [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 4 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]  Skripochka & Yurchikhin conducted a ~1.5-hr debriefing conference with EVA and Orlan specialists on the ground via S-band to discuss spacewalk and Orlan equipment particulars.  Afterwards, Oleg & Fyodor worked on drying out the water feed lines and Orlan-MK suits & gloves.  Other post-EVA closeout activities by Skripochka were –  Returning the EVA emergency first-aid medical packs, staged temporarily in the PkhO (Transfer Compartment) and DC1, to their original stowage sites in the SM med locker and Soyuz TMA-19/23S (#229),Removing the BNP #3 (portable air repress bottle 3) from the SM RO and transferring it to the 23S BO (Orbital Compartment), with IMS (Inventory Management System) update;Downloading the EVA photographs from the NIKON cameras to the SSC-15 (Station Support Computer 15) U drive for subsequent OCA downlink;Setting up the first Orlan-MK 825-M3 battery pack for discharge and starting discharging it, andCompleting Orlan and BSS Orlan Interface Unit equipment storage activities.  Doug Wheelock had ~1.5h set aside for cleaning up and stowing the US EVA tools & equipment used during the RS EVA-26.  FE-3 Kelly meanwhile stowed the T61p SSC laptop batteries used during his lockout in MRM2.   Scott then undertook a session of the U.S. PFE (Periodic Fitness Evaluation) protocol as subject, a monthly 1.5-hr. procedure which checks up on BP (blood pressure) & ECG (electrocardiogram) during programmed exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer in the US Lab.  Readings were taken with the BP/ECG equipment and the HRM (heart rate monitor) watch with its radio transmitter.  CDR Wheelock assisted as Operator/CMO.     [BP/ECG provides automated noninvasive systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements while also monitoring and displaying accurate heart rates on a continual basis at rest and during exercise.]  Alex Kaleri completed the regular inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).  FE-1 completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Sasha also did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Then, Kaleri gathered and downloaded radiation readings from the ID-3 personal dosimeters worn by Skripochka & Yurchikhin during their spacewalk and from PILLE-MKS dosimeters at cabin exposure locations.     [The ID-3 dosimeters were returned to FE-2 & FE-5 for placing at their usual locations on their flight suits, the PILLE dosimeters were redeployed to their original cabin positions and to DC1, MRM1 & MRM2.  Automatic reading of the dosimeters is set at 90 minutes.]  Afterwards, Kaleri scan-checked on the periodic refresh of the IUS AntiVirus program in the Russian VKS network laptops RSS1, RSS2 & RSK1 which are loaded automatically from the ground (RSS2 once a week on Friday, RSS1 & RSK1 from a special software program), and updated the Norton AV database on the auxiliary (non-networked) machines RSK2, RSE1 & RSE-med.  After clearing out space in the Lab end cone & Ovhd O4 stowage areas to enable ops, FE-6 Walker completed Part 1 of assembling the SLAMM-D (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) hardware, then connected the HRF PC (Human Research Facility Portable Computer) laptop to SLAMMD.  Walker also conducted the periodic changeout of flash batteries and the camera setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) with Sample 8, done one, three and five days after initializing.  At 12:00pm EST, Shannon performed another VHF-1 emergency communications proficiency check over NASA’s VHF (Very High Frequency) stations, today with the VHF site at Dryden (12:04:29pm-12:11:39pm) and White Sands (12:05:44pm-12:13:08pm), talking with Houston/Capcom, MSFC/PAYCOM (Payload Operation & Integration Center Communicator), Moscow/GLAVNI (TsUP Capcom), EUROCOM/Munich and JCOM/Tsukuba in the normal fashion via VHF radio from a handheld microphone and any of the USOS ATUs (Audio Terminal Units).     [Purpose of the periodic test is to verify signal reception and link integrity, improve crew proficiency, and ensure minimum required link margin during emergency (no TDRS) and special events (such as a Soyuz relocation).]  Later, FE-6 configured the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) for using the internal EDV-U container, and reported the flush counter.  Before sleeptime, Oleg will set up the Russian MBI-12 payload and start his 4th Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  FE-2 & FE-5 will take their standard post-EVA PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Oleg at ~3:00pm, Fyodor at ~3:15pm EST.  CDR, FE-1, FE-3 & FE-6 were scheduled for their weekly PMCs, via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Scott at ~11:35am, Wheels at ~11:50am, Shannon at ~1:20pm, Alex at ~2:05pm.  At ~11:10am EST, Oleg Skripochka conducted a telephone conference with the editor of the Russian Cosmos Magazine, answering a number of uplinked questions.     [“Could you please tell us how it felt to go out to the open space given that it was your first and a relatively busy space walk?”; “What is your opinion of the improved Orlan-MK spacesuit?  How comfortable and convenient is it?”; “Did the more experienced Fyodor help you, did you feel his support?”; “What are your crew mates doing now?”; “Your plans for the next month?”]  At ~2:40pm, Wheels is to use the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply), powered up early in the morning by Scott Kelly, to conduct a ham radio session with students at the Euro Space Center, Transinne, Belgium.  At ~4:15pm, FE-6 Walker is scheduled for her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6), and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-2).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Castries, St. Lucia (ISS had a fair weather pass over this target area with its approach from the SW.  The island of St. Lucia lies in the midst of the Windward Islands, between south of the larger island of Martinique and north of smaller St. Vincent and the Grenadines.  This small capital city is located on the northwestern coastline of St. Lucia, with a harbor on a small, well-sheltered bay.  At the time of overflight, mid-morning locally, the crew was to look just left of track for a small city of about 11,000), Volcan Colima, Mexico (this target lied just left of track as ISS approached from the SW in fair weather.  Colima is an active volcano having well-defined debris flows extending from the summit with another more weathered stratovolcano, Nevada de Colima adjacent to the north.  Overlapping mapping frames of the Volcan Colima summit and flanks are useful for geologic mapping and geo-hazard analysis), and Tarawa Atoll, Kiribati (ISS had a mid-morning pass over the Gilbert Islands archipelago of extensive, Equatorial Pacific island nation of Kiribati.  The pass was from the SW with fair weather expected.  The Tarawa Atoll is the location of capital city of the Republic of Kiribati, Bairiki).  