
Northrop Grumman 10 (NG-10) Robotics Onboard Training:  Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) in support of the crew’s Cygnus Offset Grapple practice.  During the Off Set Grapple activity, the crew used the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) as the target to practice grapple approaches, maneuvering the SSRMS over the pin, and practiced pulling the trigger when they are in the grapple envelope.  Due to weather concerns, NG-10 Antares 230 Rocket is now scheduled to launch on Saturday, November 17 at 3:01AM CT.  Cygnus capture is planned for Monday, November 19 at 4:20AM CT.
Crew Interactive MObile companioN (Cimon):  The crew performed a successful checkout of the new Cimon artificial Intelligence free-flyer. Cimon was able to demonstrate free flying and absolute navigation in the Columbus Module.  The Pilot Study with Cimon is a technology demonstration project and an observational study that aims to obtain the first insights into the effects on crew support by an artificial intelligence (AI), in terms of efficiency and acceptance during long-term missions in space. Spaceflight missions put the crew under a substantial amount of stress and workload, and it is thought that AI could provide operational support to crewmembers.
Food Acceptability:  The crew completed a Questionnaire. The Food Acceptability investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST):  The crew opened up FROST-1 and removed condensation and some corrosion that was identified during the last use of the facility.  The FROST is a Stirling cooler that is able to maintain temperatures under -70ºC.
Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG):  As part of the continuing integration activity for the Life Science Glovebox, the crew connected the Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Supply Hose to the JPM1F5 Utility Interface Panel.  The Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crewmembers can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Meteor:  The crew performed On-orbit training of the Meteor experiment by watching a video provided by the Meteor experiment team.  The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument used to observe meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. The study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Cygnus Offset Grapple Practice Support

Three Day Look Ahead:
Friday, 11/16:
Payloads:


LSG Act and Checkout-Integration and Work Volume Stow (NASA)
POLAR Transfer Review (NASA)
RR-08 Hardware wanted poster (NASA)
VEG-03 CHK and Watering (NASA)
METEOR Hard Drive Swap (NASA)

Systems: 

Cygnus ROBOT OBT
Node 1 Centerline Berthing Camera System Install and checkout
Progress 71P Launch

Saturday, 11/17:
Payloads:


None

Systems: 

Housekeeping
NG-10 Launch
OBT TORU Conference

Sunday, 11/18:
Payloads:


None

Systems: 

71P Docking

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Cimon Free Flyer Commissioning
Cimon Operations
Condensate transfer from Lab Condensate tank to WPA Waste Water Tank
Data Preparation for Return
Environmental Health System Russian Condensate Sample Operations [Aborted]
Charging of ESA Power Bank for Acceleration with AstroPi demonstration
EPO Gerst Flying Classroom 2 – Acceleration with AstroPi Recording
EVA Procedure Review for Suit IV
Extravehicular Activity (EVA)  Training Review
Food Acceptability Questionnaire
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan Prep
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Post Exam
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan performed by a Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan
In-Flight Maintenance Life Science Glovebox (LSG) Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Supply Hose Connection
IMS Tagup (S-band)
IMS Update
iPad Wireless Troubleshooting
International Procedure Viewer Tablet Questionnaire
FROST Condensation Water Wipe
Meteor On Board Training Review
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Offset Grapple
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Attached Phase Operations review
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
Robotic Workstation (RWS) Setup
Water Recovery and Management (WRM) Waste Water Bus (WWB) Recombine with Isolated Condensate Tank
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference(S-band)
SCENARIY. Observation and photography using Photo Equipment
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Closeout Ops
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment Ops on БД-2 Treadmill (Individual strategy test)
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Hygiene Procedures
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Closeout Ops
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Preparation for the experiment
ALGOMETRIYA. Tenso- and thermoalgometry mode measurements. Closeout Ops
ALGOMETRIYA. Pressure Algometry Measurement Ops Tagup with specialists
ALGOMETRIYA. Tenso- and Thermoalgometry setup and measurement session
Routine Maintenance of H2O [КВ], Air Pressure [КН], and Drainage [КД ]Valves in SM Rodnik Tanks
Sampling atmospheric condensate [КАВ] upstream of СРВ-К2М БКО (Water Purification Column Unit), configuration set up, sampler installation (drink bag)
Sampling condensate water [КАВ] to БКО [СРВ-К2М], removing sampler, equipment disassembly
Collecting condensate water samples [КАВ] to [СРВ-К2М] БКО, sampler replacement
Maintenance closures of Vozdukh emergency valves
СОЖ Maintenance
Sampling Condensate Water [КАВ] from СРВ-К2М before ФГС – Sampler removal, Disassembly Sample transfer from Condensate Water [КАВ] container to a drink bag, Closeout Ops
Visual inspection and leak check, using US leak detector ULD in the orbital compartment [БО] of Soyuz №739. Report to MCC during comm pass
Inspection and photography of ПГО-ГА rigid air duct latches

 