11-10-2011November 10, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/10/11 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. After wakeup, FE-4 Volkov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection. CDR Fossum checked the running BCAT-6 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-6)-Phase Separation experiment for camera & flashlight battery charge.  Later in the day, Mike set up the flash and Mini-MagLite for a new, clear sample, then homogenized (mixed) Sample 3 and photographed it with the D2Xs camera with EarthKAM software running on SSC-13 (Station Support Computer 13).   Automated flash photography with the Intervalometer began at 9:50am EST.      [The camera is running for a total of 7 days, taking one photo each hour.  Camera battery change and Intervalometer restart is done three times a day.  Objective of BCAT-6 Phase Separation: to gain unique insights into how gas and liquid phases separate and come together in microgravity.  These fundamental studies on the underlying physics of fluids could provide the understanding needed to enable the development of less expensive, longer shelf-life household products, foods, and medicines.] With the USND-2 (Ultrasound 2) hardware and video equipment for real-time downlink set up in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-5 Furukawa underwent his final ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Resting Echo Scan in the US Lab, assisted by Fossum who served as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) to operate the USND scans.     [Wearing electrodes, ECG (Electrocardiograph) cable & VOX, Satoshi underwent the USND scan for ICV assessment, with video being recorded from the HRF (Human Research Facility) Ultrasound and COL cabin camera.  Heart rate was tracked with the HRM (Heart Rate Monitor).  There are dietary constraints, and no exercise is allowed 4 hrs prior to scan.  After confirmed file transfer, the gear was powered down and stowed.  Later, the data from the two HM-2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi Cards and two Actiwatch Spectrums were downloaded.  The USND echo experiment uses the Image Collector software on the laptop and requires VOX/Voice plus RT Video downlink during the activity.  Goal of the ICV experiment is to quantify the extent, time course, and clinical significance of cardiac atrophy and identify its mechanisms.  The ICV experiment consists of two separate but related activities over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there are fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).] Next, Furukawa performed an ESA Vessel Imaging (Echography) scan in the COL on the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop, using the Image Collector software, with VOX/Voice plus real-time video downlink during the activity.       [Vascular Echography (Vessel Imaging) evaluates the changes in central and peripheral blood vessel wall properties (thickness and compliance) and cross sectional areas of long-duration ISS crewmembers during and after long-term exposure to microgravity. Flow velocity changes in the aorta and the middle cerebral and femoral arteries are being used to quantify the cardiovascular response to fluid shift.  Vessel Imaging aims to optimize the countermeasures used routinely during long-duration space missions.] After collecting on 11/8 the periodic condensate water samples in the SM from the KAV Condensate Container of the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor (water recovery system) upstream of the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit, Sergey Volkov today finished up water sample collections for return to Earth on Soyuz 27S (11/21).       [Samples were drawn into empty drink bags from the SVO-ZV potable water tap, the BRP-M Modified Water Distribution & Heating Unit (after flushing out its TEPL warm port valve several times with water from an EDV container and catching it in a second EDV) and another KAV condensate water from the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor (Water Recovery System) upstream of the FGS gas/liquid mixture filter/separator and  the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit, then removed sampler & separator and disposed of flush water  The samples will be returned on Soyuz.] Afterwards, FE-4 checked out the Rodnik BV-2 water tank configuration setup in the SM to ascertain whether water can be drawn from BV-2 via its drain valve, with ground specialist tagup. Sergey also performed the periodic (~monthly) maintenance on the temporarily deactivated Russian IK0501 GA (Gas Analyzer) of the SOGS Pressure Control & Atmospheric Monitoring System behind SM panel 449 by replacing its CO2 filter assembly (BF) with a new spare (done last: 9/26).  The old unit was discarded on Progress 45P and the IMS (Inventory Management System) updated.      [IK0501 is an automated system for measuring CO2, O2, and H2O in the air, as well as the flow rate of the gas being analyzed.] Mike Fossum configured water transfer equipment with an MRF (Microbial Removal Filter) and then initiated the periodic water offloading from CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodine) to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) potable water tank and water delivery ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit).       [Transferred were the contents of CWC #2081 (~5 hrs transfer time) and CWC #2018 (~3h20m).  The water is not contaminated, and the MRF is used to prevent free air from entering the potable water bus since the filter pores have a 0.22-micron diameter which not only prevents microbes from passing into the downstream flow but also keeps free gas from passing through, due also to surface tension effects.  The accumulating free gas bubbles have to be purged periodically.  After the transfer, the equipment was torn down and the MRF discarded.]  Later, the CDR temporarily retrieved the copies of the EMER-1 ODF (Operations Data File) book from SM, Soyuz 27S, Lab, FGB and Node-2 and incorporated P&I (Pen & Ink) changes to emergency procedures dealing with the sections on Fire in the Lab and Lab Fire Source Location.      [These changes may be removed at a future date.] In preparation for their return on Soyuz 27S in 11 days, Mike Fossum, Sergey Volkov & Satoshi Furukawa donned their Sokol pressure suits and performed a fit-check in their body-contoured Kazbek couches in the spacecraft while conducting the standard leak check, a 45-min job.  After doffing the suits, Sergey set up the suits and gloves for drying and then he & Satoshi stowed the gear. Sergey did the daily routine servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Satoshi retrieved & stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies, deployed on 11/8 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.       [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.] The crewmembers again had an hour set aside each for personal crew departure preparations which are standard pre-return procedures for crewmembers. Mike Fossum had a PSC (Private Special Conference) on his schedule at 7:55am EST. At ~9:45am, Mike conducted his regular IMS (Inventory Management System) stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists. At ~2:30pm, the CDR will power up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 2:35pm conduct a ham radio session with students at the Donald P. Sutherland School in Nassau, NY.   Before Presleep, the CDR will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Mike will turn MPC routing off again.       [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.] The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-4/2x), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5). Tasks listed for Sergey Volkov on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –Continuing the preparation & downlinking of more reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),The weekly documentary photography of the running Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") payload with its LADA-01 greenhouse;   [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants (currently wheat) under spaceflight conditions in the LADA greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP),Taking care of the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur), andAnother ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop. RS Propellant Transfer:     Last night’s transfer of oxidizer (N2O4 or NTO, nitrogen tetroxide) from Progress 45P to SM tank BO2 was terminated this morning at ~3:38am.  This concluded the propellant unloading of 45P. High Solar Beta Angle:   The solar Beta angle is currently at about -66 degrees.  It peaks at -69 deg on 11/12.  During this time, external hardware on the starboard side of the ISS is experiencing extremely high temperatures while the hardware on the port, zenith and nadir sides can see cold extremes.  Steps have been taken to protect the involved systems.  Soyuz TMA-22/28S Launch Preparations:    At the Baikonur/Kazakhstan launch site preparations continue for the launch of the Soyuz TMA-22 spacecraft with the Expedition 30 crew to the ISS.  In the LV Integration & Checkout Facility, the basic integration of the Soyuz-FG launch vehicle with the upper composite has been completed.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):     ISS daylight-awake orbit tracks remain in a seasonal pattern in which they temporarily parallel the terminator.  Consequently most of the nadir views of the CEO target areas fall below the criteria for illumination, with darkness to the left of track and adequate lighting right of track.  This condition is expected to persist at least through 11/14.  Today none of CEO target areas had sufficient illumination.  CEO staff continues to look for dynamic events targets for which oblique views to right of track will be useful.  Auroral activity in the Southern Hemisphere was minimal and not expected to be a worthwhile target today.  In lieu of traditional targets, the crew will be notified of nighttime opportunities of cities in oblique views.  Targets uplinked for today were Southern Australian Cities at Night (CITY LIGHTS:  At the uplinked time, the crew was to begin looking right of track during the next three to four minutes for oblique views of the major coastal cities of Adelaide and Melbourne, and possibly the island city of Hobart, Tasmania), Tropical Storm Sean (DYNAMIC EVENT:  In the past 24 hours Subtropical Storm Sean has transitioned to Tropical Storm Sean and continued to slowly strengthen as it has drifted northwestward.  The National Hurricane Center estimates winds at 60 mph with slight additional strengthening possible as it moves slowly northward.  The ISS pass today brought the crew close to the forecast position for the storm at this time in early morning light, and they were to try for short-lens context views of the cloud structure of this late-season storm.  If time permitted, more oblique views before and after their closest approach may also be useful), and South African Cities at Night (CITY LIGHTS:  At the uplinked time the crew was to begin looking left of track during the next two to three minutes for oblique views of the major interior urban pair of Johannesburg -Pretoria, and next the major coastal city of Durban). 