
Payloads:
Grip Seated Science 2 Experiment Session: From an upright seated posture, the crew performed experiment tasks looking at friction, discrete movement (with eyes open/closed), and collisions.  The Grip experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
Plant Habitat-04: A crewmember removed plant litter (detritus) from the growth chamber and photographed the plants/peppers.  Numerous green and red healthy peppers were reported, and the crew has been watching the plants with interest.  Microgravity Growth of New Mexico Hatch Green Chile as a Technical Display of Advanced Plant Habitat’s Capabilities (Plant Habitat-04) demonstrates using the Advanced Plant Habitat (APH) by growing peppers in space for the first time. An excellent source of vitamin C, peppers are more difficult to cultivate than many possible space crops because they take longer to germinate, grow, and develop fruit. The investigation includes microbial analysis to improve understanding of plant-microbe interactions in space and assessment of flavor and texture, which vary based on the growth environment and care such as amount of watering.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules Sample Exchange-BRazing of Aluminum alloys IN Space (SUBSA-BRAINS): The crew removed the processed sample B5, and inserted sample B6 into the SUBSA hardware to be processed via ground commanding.  SUBSA operates inside the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  SUBSA-BRAINS examines differences in capillary flow, interface reactions, and bubble formation during solidification of brazing alloys in microgravity. Brazing technology bonds similar materials (such as an aluminum alloy to aluminum) or dissimilar ones (such as aluminum alloy to ceramics) at temperatures above 450°C. It is a potential tool for construction of human space habitats and manufactured systems as well as repair of damage from micrometeoroids or space debris.
Touching Surfaces: The crew reviewed the big picture words and performed a periodic touching of the Touch Arrays which are deployed in five different locations in the US segment of ISS.  Previous space research conducted during short-term flight experiments and long-term environmental monitoring on board orbiting space stations suggests the relationship between humans and microbes is altered in the crewed habitat in space.  This interdisciplinary project Touching Surfaces aims to investigate novel, laser-structured antimicrobial surfaces onboard the ISS.  The realistic testing of the tailor-made nanostructured antimicrobial surface in space allows for the determination of the most suitable design for antimicrobial surfaces for terrestrial applications such as public transportation and clinical settings, as well as future human space mission and habitation design.
Systems: 
Cygnus Departure Preparations: The crew has worked cargo ops the past several days in preparation for NG-16 Cygnus departure on November 20th. Today, the crew continued Cygnus departure preparations beginning with additional transfer operations to move hardware into the vehicle for departure. The crew also performed On Board Training (OBT) Cygnus ground control release self-study activities, which consist of a review of the Cygnus Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) ground control release procedure and a training video. These activities are in preparation for robotic arm operations to release the NG-16 vehicle from ISS.
S-Band Antenna Support Assembly (SASA) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Prep: The crew continued to perform activities on Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU)s 3015 and 3004 in preparation for the upcoming US EVA P1 SASA Remove & Replace (R&R) currently scheduled for November 30th. The crew performed an EMU On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV) for the two suited crewmembers. During the OFV, the crew donned their EMUs to ensure a proper fit before the upcoming EVA. Each EMU contains exchangeable components, allowing each astronaut to adjust EMU fit to their individual preference, it is important to ensure the EMU fits as expected before crew egress. The SASA R&R EVA will replace the P1 SASA unit which was deemed hard-failed.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) In Flight Maintenance (IFM): As part of regularly scheduled preventative maintenance, the crew performed a manual WHC flush tank fill.  By using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as the burp, they depressurized the flush water tank and water valve block to protect the dose pump. This pump is critical as it injects the pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

BioMed Data Checkout
BPA Transition to Standby
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Maneuvers
Mobile Transporter (MT) Translation
SSRMS Cygnus Grapple

