
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Repository): A 51S crewmember completed Flight Day (FD) 120 blood and urine sample collections to support the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples are obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Lighting Effects:  A 52S crewmember provided a sleep log entry to track his daily sleep patterns and wakefulness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Earth Imagery from ISS Target Operations: The crew setup and configured the RED camera in the Cupola to capture video footage of the Nile Delta and South Florida to the Bahamas in the daytime. The Earth Imagery from ISS investigation creates a series of videos, showcasing Earth from space. These videos will be taken with cameras on the International Space Station in 6K hi-resolution, then integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement.
Story Time From Space: A crewmember participated in the Story Time from Space project by reading “The Wizard Who Saved the Word” in Spanish today while being videotaped.  The recording will be downlinked and used for educational purposes. Story Time from Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crewmembers read science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books on orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials. 
Space Headaches:  The crew completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Orbital-ATK 8 (OA-8) Arrival Preparations: In preparation for OA-8 capture and berthing on Monday, the crew deployed and performed a checkout of the Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) on the Node 1 Nadir hatch. Video from the CBCS will be used to aid Flight Controllers during Visiting Vehicle mating operations.  The crew also reviewed Cygnus capture procedures, and completed a Robotics Onboard Trainer (RoBOT) session to practice Capture Point hold runs and 2-meter runs.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Life On The Station Photo and Video
Changeout of ПФ1 & ПФ2 Dust Filters
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
Cleaning FGB ГЖТ (Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger) detachable screens 1, 2, 3
ECON-M. Observation and photography
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection – Operator
Reminder ESA Nutritional Assessment
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) Weekly Conference
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) Nitrogen Manual Valve Close
SSCNAS-CHECK
IMS Tagup
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
JLP Consolidation Follow-up
HUNCH Footpad Deployment and Feedback
VIZIR. Preparation Steps. Tagup with specialists as necessary
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) and Vestibule Outfitting Kit Equipment Gather
Gathering equipment to replace Orlan-MK No.6 water pump and procedure review.
Sidekick Unstow and Charge
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval Insertion Operations
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout
Orlan-MK No.6 water pump R&R.
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Conclude Stow
MSG Drawer Trash
On MCC GO Changeout of Elektron Purification Column Assembly (БКО)
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
СОЖ Maintenance
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Educational  Imagery Recording
Sabatier accumulator purge
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
Story Time Book The Wizard Who Saved the World Translation Read
Cleaning FGB panel vent screens (116, 316, 231, 431)
OA-8 Trash gather Follow up
Food Relocate
Veggie Wipe Down
Robotics Work Station (RWS) Display and Control Panel (DCP) Checkout
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
Checkout of water pump installed in Orlan-MK No.6.
RED Camera Setup.
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 2
VIZIR. Closeout Ops
SPHERES Battery Consolidation
Earth Imagery from ISS RED Target Operations
RED Camera Deactivation.
Empty CTB Gather
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Rad Detector Relocate
IMS Update
Closeout ops after replacement of water pump in Orlan-MK No.6.
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 8
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Attached Phase Operations review.
JEM Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle 2 (FROST2) Temperature check
PCS Laptop Relocate
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – ESA Nutritional Assessment
FSL Facility Core Element locking at the end of scientific operations
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Cygnus Capture Review
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Retrieval Insertion Operations
USOS Window Shutter Close
Soyuz 736 СУДН No.2 Test.

Completed Task List Activities

VEG-03 Plant Pillow Watering 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Camera Calibration for Cygnus Ops
N1 CBCS Checkout

