
Khladon (Freon 218) Venting:  Samokutyaev and Serova performed steps to release pressure in the Russian Segment Air Conditioner System [СКВ] by venting Khladon (Freon 218) overboard.  However, several of the quick disconnects that were actuated during the procedure exhibited leaks. As a result, the Khladon was vented into the cabin instead.  The quantity released was ~100g, which results in a density of 117 mg/m3 over the volume of ISS after about 2 hours, which was below the stated ISS zero risk flight rule limit of 150 mg/m3.  As part of nominal air scrubbing process, the Russian Air Purification System [БМП] and the USOS Trace Contaminant Control System (TCCS) will remove residual Khladon from the atmosphere. Intermodule ventilation configuration was not changed as a result of this inadvertent release.



















 
Aniso Tubule:  Wilmore has set up the fluorescence microscope and laptop for initial checkout at Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Work Volume.  This work is in support of future Aniso Tubule experiment operations.  Experimenters will examine growth modifications of Arabidopsis hypocotyls and the changing orientation of cortical microtubule under microgravity conditions in space. Scientists will further observe changes in dynamics of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins by observing Arabidopsis hypocotyls and microtubule-associated proteins with a fluorescence microscope.

Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Hardware Replacement, Part 2:  Wilmore continued to work on the MDCA in support of future Flame Extinguishment Experiment-2 (FLEX-2) runs.  The crew removed the MDCA Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) from the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Combustion Chamber, restrained it to the Maintenance Work Area (MWA), replaced both MDCA Needles, installed both MDCA Igniters, installed the MDCA Fiber Arm, replaced both MDCA Fuel Reservoirs, and re-installed the MDCA CIA in the Chamber.  FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
 
Today’s Planned Activities   
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 
·         Laptop RS1(2), RSS1, 2 Reboot. BRI Temperature Check 
·         SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test 
·         Installation of Freon leak analyzer ФИТ 
·         СКВ2 Khladon Venting
·         ELT2 – ELT2 Deactivation for Relocation 
·         ANISO – Microscope Installation
·         Cleaning ВД1 and ВД2 Air Ducts in DC-1 
·         ANISO – Microscope Installation
·         OTKLIK. Equipment Check
·         Analysis of SM Atmosphere for Freon Using ФИТ.  
·         СТТС Configuration for MRM1 
·         CIR – Chamber Opening 
·         MDCA – Replacement Part 2
·         KHIMIYA OBRAZOVANIYE. Sfera-F Session Ops
·         CIR – CIR Front End Cap Closure
·         SDGR2 – Parameter Setting
 
Completed Task List Items
·         IFM- WHC UR/IF changeout
·         SpX-4 CD transfer
·         J- RSU sensor fix
 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 
·         Regen Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Process Verification at new setpoint
 
