11-10-2010November 10, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/10/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  At day’s begin (1:00am EST), FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Fyodor again inspects the filters before bedtime (4:30pm EST) tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  Also at wake-up, FE-1 Kaleri terminated his 3rd experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  After wake-up, CDR Wheelock, FE-6 Walker & FE-3 Kelly performed another session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.      [The RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift (therefore, for the next sleep shift sequence RST is scheduled twice daily from 11/1 through 5 days after the STS-133 crew lands). The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Wheelock completed Part 2 of the periodic personal acoustic measurement protocol by downloading the recorded crew-worn dosimeter data from yesterday and stowing the instruments.      [Acoustic data are taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.]  After switching off the  two circuit breakers of the TVIS treadmill in the SM (Service Module) and allowing ~1h for cooldown, Scott Kelly, Shannon Walker & Fyodor Yurchikhin worked several hours on the TVIS, removing it from the “pit” and replacing its flywheel case with a spare (previously used) unit onboard, then restoring the treadmill to its original configuration.     [Based on the audio/noise data gathered and downlinked yesterday, ground specialists have zeroed in on the flywheel case as the most likely culprit for the TVIS noise.  After the IFM, there will be the usual speed characterization tests, recorded on MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) camera and downlinked for analysis.]  In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Wheels set up the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) for ground monitoring, then opened the CIR FCF (Combustion Integrated Rack / Fluids & Combustion Facility) upper rack door, removed & replaced a CIR manifold bottle on one of four manifolds on the front of the Optics Bench, and closed the door.    [Wheels then turned on two switches and notified POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) that the rack was ready for remote commanding via RPC (Remote Power Controller).]  Afterwards, the CDR performed the periodic snubber arm inspection on the T2/COLBERT treadmill, checking the joints of the arm stacks to track the structural integrity of the hardware following exercise sessions.  Also in COL, covered by VCA1, FE-3 Kelly worked on the FSL (Fluids Science Laboratory), installing the SE (Sensor Enclosure) of the SAMS (Space Acceleration  Measurement System) and its associated cable onto the FSL ODM (Optical Diagnostic Module) seat track.  Later, Scott continued supporting the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment),  reviewing procedures for the second part of CFE VG1 (Vane Gap 1) ops, powering up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) for real-time viewing by POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) and setting up the hardware, i.e., unstowing, preparing the MWA (Maintenance Work Area), securing the hardware on the MWA, and positioning the HD camcorder.  Then, Scott conducted VG1 fluid test runs using a wet surface, which, unlike his 11/8 tests, are repeatable.   About 3 hrs later, FE-3 shut the experiment down again.     [CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  VG is one of three CFE experiments, the others being ICF and CL (Contact Line).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]  Kaleri & Skripochka had ~2.5h set aside for a routine audit/inventory of STTS audio subsystem components (GNSh headsets & RTT switches), complete with quantities, condition, manufacturer’s number and locations.  Alex also spent several hours continuing the current round of monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems.  In the DC1 Docking Compartment, FE-1 changed out the PF1 & PF2 dust filter cartridges, cleaned the V1 & V2 fan screens, the VD1 & VD2 air ducts and the V3 fan screen, then moved to the MRM2 Poisk research module to perform the same service on its ventilation system.  Later, Sasha completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Yurchikhin did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  As a regular periodic task, Fyodor tightened the BVZ (bystros`ёmnykh vintovykh zazhinov) quick-release screw clamps on the SSVP docking mechanism at the SM aft port & Progress 39P interface.  Oleg meanwhile verified the presence of an activity/event on the Russian “EVA from DC1” checklist which was missing from the checklist used during the PEV (Pressure Equalization Valve) commanding tests from the PkhO POV (Transfer Compartment EVA Support Panel) on 11/4.      [The missing activity, “RO-PkhO PEV Open Inhibit” of the Orlan-MK checklist printout, was correctly listed in TsUP’s master copy, and the crew obviously had used an older RODF (Russian Operations Data File) version.  Skripochka today verified that two current copies of the “EVA from DC1” procedures and two commensurate cue cards, dated 10/5/10, are the correct ones.]   Continuing their paced preparations for the EVA-26 spacewalk next Monday (11/15) and the suited dry-run on Friday (11/12), Skripochka & Yurchikhin –  Completed individual fit sizing (central strap, lateral strap, hip strap, calf strap, arm cable and shoulder size, front & rear) on their Orlan-MK spacesuits,Adjusted the palm sizing bars of their GP-10KM suit gloves as required,Ran leak checks & valve functionality tests on the Orlans and their BSS interface units in the DC1 & SM PkhO from the EVA support panels (POV); andConducted pressure checks on the SM BK-3 O2 (oxygen) tanks and the BNP portable repress O2 tank in the DC-1 airlock module.   Activities performed by FE-6 Shannon Walker included –  Conducting the periodic inspection & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks), Completing an audit/inventory in the Lab of Med Locker D4 (at loc. D2), using an uplinked itemized table as reference,  [contents of the Locker include IMAKs (ISS Medical Accessory Kits), dust masks, medical checklist and other med items, Tonometer hardware, wipes, etc.], Performing the periodic inspection of CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization), particularly its four isolators for their condition, downlinking photographs of the devices  [crew note from Shannon: “CEVIS still seems stable enough to ride on“], andDownloading & saving the ECG (Electrocardiograph) data recorded for the last 24 hrs from her 3rd session, started yesterday, with the JAXA biomedical experiment BIORHYTHMS (Biological Rhythms) and its body-worn digital Walk Holter ECG,  [BIORHYTHMS is performed by Walker & Wheelock, with 3 data collection sessions for each of them.  Body mass is measured with SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device).  Each session collects 24 hrs worth of ECG data.  On Day 1, the Holter ECG harness is donned for recording.  On Day 2, it is removed, and the ECG data are downloaded to the MLT (Microgravity Laptop terminal).]  In need of EDV containers for use in the WHC (Waste &Hygiene Compartment), CDR Wheelock built another one from a bucket (#500) & a lid (#964), then stowed it in the Node-3 port endcone.  To monitor onboard drinking water quality, Wheelock conducted another one of the frequent sample collections from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser), first performing a 300 mL purge (to clean the sampler), then drawing a 300mL sample from the WRS1 (Water Recovery System rack 1) RIP (Rack Interface Panel) for return on ULF5 in December.  Later, Wheels had another ~90min reserved for preparing US tools & equipment to be used by Fyodor & Oleg on the Russian EVA-26.  Doug also performed the periodic snubber arm inspection on the T2/COLBERT treadmill, checking the joints of the arm stacks to track the structural integrity of the hardware following  exercise sessions.  In support of the NASA EPO (Education Payload Operations) program, Wheelock first reviewed the scheduled educational “EPO Hobbies” session procedures, then set up the video camcorder for the planned DVD and teamed with Shannon Walker in demonstrating some of their favorite activities while on the ISS.     [The demo was timed such that EPO ground personnel could watch, for providing real-time feedback during the demo.  The high-definition G1 camcorder tape was played back via the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter). ]  Oleg Skripochka performed his 2nd data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.      [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]  CDR & FE-3 had their standard PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Wheelock at ~8:30am, Scott at ~9:05am EST.  At ~2:10pm, the three US crewmembers convened for their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office (Steve Lindsey), via S-band S/G-2 audio & phone patch.  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-5).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  RS EVA Flight Rule Change:     IMMT (ISS Mission Management Team) today approved a change in a Flight Rule which in the past called for RS EVA to take place only over RGS (Russian Ground Sites) for downlinking Orlan suit telemetry via VHF (Very High Frequency).  ISS, Soyuz, and Orlan suits utilize VHF2 frequency pair.  VHF2 up to now had been limited to spacecraft emergencies or any contingency scenarios.  The FR change allows Orlan spacesuit EVA operations over CONUS (Continental US) using the VHF2 channel as well as spacecraft emergencies and contingencies.  Use of VHF over CONUS requires GSFC network director pre-coordination due to frequency proximity to those of general aviation.   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Nicosia, Cyprus (ISS tracked northeastward over the Eastern Mediterranean towards this target at midday with fair skies below.  This city of about 400,000 is located in the north central part of the Island.  Looking nadir for Nicosia and trying for views of the entire urban area in a single frame), Wetumpka Impact Crater, AL (ISS nadir pass was at midday in clear weather for this 6.5 km diameter impact crater in Southeastern Alabama.  As ISS passed northeastward over Mobile Bay, the crew was to begin trying for overlapping frames along track to maximize their chance of acquiring this target.  Wetumpka is a somewhat subtle feature on the landscape located directly to the southeast of the Coosa River), and Huachuca Mountains (the crew was to try for a nadir mapping strip over this small target area as ISS tracked northeastward over Northwestern Mexico at midday under fair skies.  This roughly horseshoe-shaped cluster of mountains is situated on the Arizona-Sonora border of the United States and Mexico about 70 miles south-southeast of Tucson.  With elevations ranging from about 4,000 to 9,500 feet, the Huachuca support an ecologically diverse, alpine-woodland habitat within the Sonoran Desert that includes them in the regional province of scattered highlands known as the Madrean Sky Islands of Northwestern Mexico and the Southwestern United States.  CEO staff is seeking detailed mapping views of this target for baseline and change detection of unique and threatened habitat).  