
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #47: Today, CDR Sergey Ryzhikov (EV1) and FE-5 Sergey Kud-Sverchkov (EV2) egressed the Mini-Research Module (MRM)-2 airlock and completed the following tasks during today’s 6 hour and 48 minute EVA:

Leak check of MRM-2 Extravehicular (EV) hatch
Disconnect TRANZIT-B antenna feeder from Service Module (SM) – Docking Compartment (DC)-1 and reconnect to SM-MRM-2
Remove connector bracket test sample from HR3021 at DC-1
Replace IMPACT tray #1 with tray #2 on SM [AO] (get ahead)
Take photos of GZU plume deflectors cavities on SM (get ahead)
Redirect БКДО unit installed on MRM-2

The EV crew was unable to open the airtight container containing the new flow regulator #1 panel (SP RRZh). As a result, the EV crew was unable to complete the R&R and instead replaced the old panel, translated back to MRM2 and stowed the airtight container.
This EVA is the first RS EVA to utilize the MRM-2 airlock and prepares the ISS for DC-1 decommissioning and replacement by the Multipurpose Logistics Module (MLM) next year.
Payloads
Grip: The crew set up the appropriate hardware and attempted to perform the Grip Seated Science 1 (SCI-1) sessions.  However, issues were encountered, and the session could not be completed as planned. The ground team is discussing a forward plan and noted this setup is a different configuration than previously used. In SCI-1, the crew is in an upright seated posture and they perform various tasks related to friction, oscillations, etc. as guided by the Grip software. The Grip experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate Grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
LSR (Life Support Rack) Spare Relocate: In preparation for the maintenance activities later this week, the crew relocated the spare parts kit to the Columbus 1 overhead 4 location. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. LSR captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR operates for a minimum of one year on the International Space Station to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
SERFE (Spacesuit Evaporation Rejection Flight Experiment): The crew gathered water samples from SERFE in order to perform microbial and total organic carbon analyses. SERFE demonstrates a new technology to remove heat from spacesuits and maintain appropriate temperatures for crew members and equipment during space walks. The technology uses evaporation of water for cooling. The SERFE system incorporates a Titanium and Hastelloy water loop that differs from previous space suit life support systems that use stainless steel. The investigation determines whether microgravity affects performance and evaluates the technology’s effect on contamination and corrosion of spacesuit material.
Systems
Crew Dragon Arrival Operations: The crew performed several activities to configure the vehicle for post-docking operations. The crew installed a MegaHEPA seal in Crew Dragon. They transferred a Polar unit, a payload locker, and other cargo from Crew Dragon to ISS. The crew also transferred emergency response equipment and a payload locker from ISS to Crew Dragon. Finally, the crew updated Systems Operations Data Files (SODFs) with the latest procedures.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement: As part of system health monitoring, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through selected ventilation inlets and outlets.  Today’s measurements were taken in Node 1, Pressurized Mating Adapter 2 (PMA-2), and Crew Dragon. 
Inflight Maintenance (IFM) for Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill: The crew performed a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as the burp, to protect the Dose Pump.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Video Distribution Subsystem Commanding for EVA
Primary Power System Commanding for EVA
Attitude Control System (ACS) Handovers for EVA
Dragon Configuration for Quiescent Operations
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey
HRF Rack 1 Rack Power Up and Power Down Commanding

