11-15-2010November 15, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/15/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Underway:  Week 8 of Increment 25.   >>> EVA-26 Day <<<    Sleep cycle shift:   Due to today’s Russian EVA-26 spacewalk, the crew’s working day has been extended by 4h10m: 1:00am-8:40pm EST.  Tomorrow:  Wake – 6:00am, sleep – 4:30pm (i.e., workday 5h shorter).  At day’s begin, FE-1 Kaleri conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Alex again inspects the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  As part of the crew’s regular morning inspection tour, FE-1 conducted the routine checkup of circuit breakers & fuses in the DC-1 Docking Compartment.     [The monthly checkup in the “Pirs” module looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 & BPP-36.]  Kaleri’s morning inspection today also included the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM (Service Module) on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.  After breakfast, FE-3 Kelly started his 5th weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.   His commensurate overnight fast started last night.      [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.]   CDR Wheelock began another 4-day session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), his 4th onboard run, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.      [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 4 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]  As regular pre-spacewalk activity, Oleg Skripochka & Fyodor Yurchikhin took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.     [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]  Also in preparation for the spacewalk, FE-6 Walker closed the protective window shutters in Lab, Node-3 Cupola & Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  The CDR swapped the currently used GC/DMS (Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer) Air Quality Monitor (#1004) with a new unit (#1002), then powered up SSC12 (Station Support Computer 12) for the system.  Another sampling run with the EHS (Environmental Health Systems) GC/DMS followed, deactivated ~5 hrs later.     [This was the first session with the GC/DMS unit #1002, after the previous instrument (#1004) was used for approximately 39 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware],  FE-6 Walker performed her 5th (Return-15) ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Resting Echo Scan as subject, assisted by Wheelock as CMO, helping to operate the ultrasound scans.      [Wearing electrodes, ECG (Electrocardiograph) cable & VOX, Shannon underwent the ultrasound scan for the Resting Echo mode of ICV, with video being recorded from the HRF (Human Research Facility) Ultrasound and COL cabin camera.  First, heart rate was tracked with the HRM (Heart Rate Monitor).  After confirmed file transfer, the gear was powered down and stowed.  Next, Shannon performed an ESA Vessel Imaging (Echography) scan in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) on the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop, using the Image Collector software, with VOX/Voice plus real-time video downlink during the activity.  Goal of the ICV experiment is to quantify the extent, time course, and clinical significance of cardiac atrophy and identify its mechanisms.  The ICV experiment consists of two separate but related activities over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there are fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).]  Later, Shannon Walker completed her 5th onboard session with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.     [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]  After powering on the A31p HRF PC1 (Human Research Facility Portable Computer 1) laptop, Walker downloaded the data from her 5th and last (11/14, R-15) ICV Ambulatory session, i.e., from two Actiwatches, two HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi CF cards and the Cardiopres data.  In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-6 Walker set up the G1 video camcorder for downlinking live coverage with audio commentary of her activities, then serviced the BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) payload for Sample 8 operations.      [Today’s steps involved homogenizing Sample 8 for long-term crystal observation using a different mixing technique, checking for crystals, then photographing the sample manually using the EarthKAM DCS 760 digital camera and initiating automatic photography using the Intervalometer and KODAK Camera Manager instead of the currently failed EarthKAM application.  The sample is now being photographed automatically with electronic flash every hour for the next 10 days, and the pictures are downlinked via OCA during nominal OCA downlink sessions.]  Activities completed by Doug Wheelock included –  Performing periodic maintenance on the ARED advanced resistive exerciser by evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition & sensor calibration,Servicing & preparing Actiwatches for another round of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), first installing a fresh 9V battery in the Actiwatch Reader, then performing data downloading and initializing the devices, finally decabling & stowing the hardware and powering the HRF PC1 off,Conducting routine maintenance on the CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units by replacing the battery on the prime (#1058) unit with a new one, then zero-calibrating all instruments  [CSA-CP is a passive cabin atmosphere monitor that provides quick response capability during a combustion event (fire). Its collected data are stored on a logger. Following zero calibration, the prime unit was re-deployed at the SM Central Post],Collecting NH3 (ammonia) coolant samples from the LTL (Low Temperature Loop) and MTL (Moderate Temperature Loop) of the Node-2 ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System) after performing a flush, to be returned to the ground, andRemoving the 4 alignment guides from CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) to allow PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be activated before begin of CIR operations requiring a microgravity environment.  ITCS sampling was also performed by FE-6 Walker in the US Lab and in the Kibo JPM where Shannon collected a coolant/OPA (Ortho-phthalaldehyde) sample from the LTL port and PhosRA (Phosphate Removal Assembly).    [OPA is an antimicrobial agent in the ITCS fluid.]  Alex did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  For the duration of his lockout in the MRM2/Soyuz 24S during EVA-26, FE-1 Kaleri started his 2nd session of the standard ECG (electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2 protocol, today lasting only 15h instead of the usual 24h.     [After 15 hrs of ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system while sequestered, Alex will terminate the session tonight at ~6:50pm EST,  doff the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads and recorded on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results will then be downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data will be downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]  FE-3 Kelly had ~20 min set aside to review an upcoming EPO (Education Payload Operations) activity, scheduled for his EVA-26 lockout.  In preparing the RS (Russian Segment) for the spacewalk by shutting down selected systems, FE-1 Kaleri also supported TsUP-Moscow in deactivating the Elektron O2 generator.  As part of the standard deactivation process the Elektron was purged with N2 (nitrogen), controlled from laptop.  After setting up the MRM2 “Poisk” module for their isolation period, Sasha removed the air duct from the DC1 (leaving the V3 fan in place) and from the MRM2, while Scott Kelly gathered the items he was to use during his isolation and relocated the SSC6 laptop from Node-2 to MRM2 in preparation for operations during the RS EVA.  With the assistance of CDR Wheelock, the two spacewalkers then closed the MRM2-to-SM (SU) hatch, at ~7:30am, and Kaleri turned on the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment hardware in the MRM2 to take structural dynamics data during the spacewalk.  While Scott & Alex were sequestered for almost 7 hrs, the U.S. CDM (Carbon Dioxide Monitor) was used for CO2 measurements in MRM2/24S due to the failure of the Neptun InPU panel in the 24S spacecraft.  During the lockout, Scott Kelly was to work a number of tasks, viz.  –  Inventorying/auditing/consolidating a CTB (Cargo Transfer Bag, #1379) containing WRS (Water Recovery System) protective caps & quick-disconnect plugs,Auditing/checking the contents of an IVA (Intravehicular Activity) Tool Kit in a CTB for usage & manifesting purposes, andRecording an EPO demo session on Gyroscopes with the G1 camcorder, using a gyrotube to explain the station’s CMGs (Control Moment Gyros), for subsequent downlink via MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter).  The Russian Orlan EVA-26 spacewalk by FE-2 Oleg Skripochka & FE-5 Fyodor Yurchikhin, currently underway, began at 9:54am EST (24 min behind schedule), scheduled to last about 6h.  Attitude control authority was handed over to Russian MCS (Motion Control System) thrusters at 7:10am and returned to U.S. momentum management at ~9:55am.   Objectives of the 6-h spacewalk are to –  Collect surface samples from the MLI (Multi-Layered Insulation) near a vent location on the SM (experiment “Test”), Install the URM-D portable multipurpose work station on Plane IV of the SM RO l.d. (large diameter),Take photographs of IPI-SM monoblock unit (accelerator channel) of the IMPULSE space experiment on SM RO l.d., Wipe the ESA/German “ROKVISS” (KONTUR ) robotics monoblock with dry towels, then deactivate & remove ROKVISS experiment from URM-D on Plane II on RO l.d., Install fasteners & SKK #1-M2 cassette on MRM2 “Poisk”,Install a gap spanner on DC1,Install struts between MRM2 & SM and MRM2 & FGB, andRelocate MRM1 “Rassvet” TV camera from its location at the side of the active STA (docking mechanism) and install it on the side of the MRM1 passive STA.  After conclusion of EVA-26, Oleg & Fyodor will –  Repressurize the SM PkhO transfer compartment,Conduct their second MO-9 “Urolux” biochemical (post-EVA) urine test,Reset STTS communications in the SM/PkhO,Re-install the air duct through the DC1 hatch,Restore systems configurations in the SM to pre-EVA conditions, andSet up the Orlan-MK suits, umbilicals and BSS interface units for drying out.    Also as part of post-EVA close-outs, Scott Kelly is to return the SSC6 laptop to its nominal place.  Shannon Walker will –  Relocate the CDM to the USOS,Downlink the EVA images and Reconfigure the two NIKON D2Xs EVA cameras for nominal ops.   The US crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  