
Post Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities:  Following completion of EVA #33 on November 6, the crew was given a day off on Monday.  Today, the crew performed cleanup activities, including EVA loop scrubs with water conductivity tests, Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) dry out, EVA tool stow, EVA camera disassembly and US Airlock deconfiguration.
 
Sally RideEarth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students (Sally Ride EarthKAM):  Kornienko installed EarthKAM components in Node 2 yesterday for a week-long imaging session of the Earth.  Students will then be able to remotely control a digital camera mounted on the ISS and use it to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges and other interesting features. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the Internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view the Earth from the ISS.
 
Soret Facet:  The final run of JAXA’s Soret Facet investigation was completed last night.  The Soret effect in fluids is a thermodynamic phenomenon in which different particles respond in different ways to varying temperatures. The effect has been difficult to examine in detail on Earth because of convection effects in gravity conditions.  This is the first investigation to verify Soret conditions in steady and changing conditions that supports a comparison of the Soret effects in microgravity to effects observed on the ground.
 
Biochemical Profile:  Yui and Lindgren continued their Flight Day 120 collections yesterday and today for the Biochem Profile investigation.  They stowed the samples in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a later flight. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
 
Fine Motor Skills:  Kelly completed a session of the Fine Motor Skills experiment on Saturday and Kornienko completed one yesterday.  During the experiment, they performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. Fine Motor Skills sessions completed by Kelly and Kornienko will provide data for identification of trends or variations in fine motor performance in microgravity over the duration of their year-long space mission and upon their return to earth.  Kelly’s results will also be compared with a closely matched participant on Earth.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly recorded a Sleep Log entry yesterday and another one today.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Journals:  Kelly completed a Journals entry on Saturday. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used during astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparation for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Airlock Interface Kit (AIK) Procedure Review:  This week, the crew will be installing the NORS AIK.  Today, the crew completed a procedure review and gathered equipment in preparation for the installation starting tomorrow.  NORS provides the capability to refill the US Airlock High Pressure Gas Tanks (HPGTs) with nitrogen and oxygen following Shuttle retirement.
 
Water Sample and Analysis:  Today, Lindgren collected four water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for analysis.  This was a regularly scheduled test to verify water quality.  He stowed one sample for return on Soyuz 43S.  Later he initiated a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) sample analysis and prepared two samples for incubation prior to microbial and coliform analysis and iodine analysis on Thursday.
 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Status:  On November 3, during a pretreat tank change out, the pretreat bad qual light did not illuminate as expected as plain water from the newly-installed hose passed the sensor.  On Saturday, Yui replaced the pretreat bad qual electronics unit and installed a replacement hose containing water between the pretreat tank and the dose pump.  He then activated the dose pump and the pretreat bad qual light illuminated as expected when plain water passed the sensor.  WHC is now re-connected to the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) and operating nominally.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HRF Urine Sample Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Blood Draw
HRF – Blood Sample collection operator assistance
Virus Definition File Update on Auxiliary Computer System (ВКС) Laptops
HRF Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
MYCO – Familiarization
On MCC Go Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Micropurification Cartridge
VIBROLAB. Monitoring hardware activation
HRF – Blood Sample Collection Closeout Ops
СТТС Configuration for MRM1
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
US EVA Tool Stow
Replacement of MRM1 ГК1 Н1 Pump
Pressurization of Elektron Liquid Unit
Airlock Deconfig Post EVA
EVA Camera Reconfig
EMU Cooling Loop Maintenance.
HABIT – Experiment Ops
Changeout of Dust Filter ПФ1-4 Cartridges in SM (ФГБ1ПГО_4_419_1, bag 429-16 (00068131R)
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
RGN – Initiate drain into EDV
HRF Urine Sample Collection
HRF Closeout Ops
ISS RS ППС-26 and ППС-31 Plug-in Audit
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
RGN – Terminate water drain into EDV
Repairs of SM Interior Panel 313 by Installing Overlay Panels – Day 2
HAPTICS OBT Material Review
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
EMU Cooling Loop Maintenance.
MRM1 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
WRS Sample Collection
24-hour ECG Monitoring (termination)
EMU – Conductivity Test
EMU Cooling Loop Maintenance.
24-hour BP monitoring (terminate)
Environmental Health System (EHS) – TEPC Rotation
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
CALCIUM. Experiment Session 13
ТКГ 428 (DC1) Stowage and IMS Ops
HRF Urine Sample Collection
ДКЦ2Б15 Photography
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Task Review
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
TOCA Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
VIBROLAB. Copy and Downlink Data
Gathering Equipment for NORS Installation
EMU – Cooling Loop Maintenance – EMU Reconfig
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
ISS RS ППС-26 and ППС-31 Plug-in Audit
СОЖ Maintenance
HRF Urine Sample Collection
EMU – Long Dryout
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Private Psychological Conference
Monthly Inspection of T2 Treadmill System
EMU – Cooling Loop Maintenance – Deconfig
SPHERES SLOSH OBT. SPHERES SLOSH OBT Review
IMS Delta File Prep
Airlock Unstow for NORS Installation
Water processing using MCD
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
TOCA Data Recording
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
Stow Syringes used in Н2О Conductivity Test
SPHERES – Battery Replacement
On MCC Go Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Absorption Cartridge (end)
CONTUR-2. Installation of master arm with adapter on panel 418
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
URAGAN Observation and Photography

 
Completed Task List Items

EarthKam Setup in Node 2  [Performed on Monday]
JAXA Space School  [Performed on Monday]

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Support of EVA loop scrub
LA2 MDM EEPROM refresh

 
