11-11-2010November 11, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/11/10    All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Veterans Day in the US.   At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Fyodor again inspects the filters before bedtime (4:30pm EST) tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   FE-1 Kaleri readied the Progress M-08M/40P cargo ship at the DC1 nadir port for undocking if required in an EVA-26 contingency.  Steps included –  Installing the docking      mechanism (StM, Stykovochnovo      mekhanizma) between the cargo ship and the DC1 nadir port  [the      StM is the "classic" probe-and-cone type, consisting of an      active docking assembly (ASA) with a probe (SSh), which fits into the cone      (SK) on the passive docking assembly (PSA) for initial soft dock and      subsequent retraction to hard dock.  The ASA is mounted on the      Progress' cargo module (GrO), while the PSA sits on the docking ports of      the SM, FGB, MRM2 and DC1], Activating the      spacecraft’s electronics and taking out the ventilation/heating air      duct;  Closing      the hatches (with help by FE-2 Skripochka);  Removing the BZV quick disconnect      screw clamps of the docking & internal transfer mechanism (SSVP) which rigidized      the joint, Starting the standard      one-hour leak checking of the SU      docking vestibule and fuel/oxidizer transfer line interface between      Progress and DC1, and Downlinking Sasha’s      video depicting the interface before hatch closure, for review by ground      specialists.   [During hatch closure, leak checking and initial      clamp installation, Russian thrusters were inhibited due to load      constraints from ~4:55am – 6:40am.]    Continuing preparations for the RS (Russian Segment) EVA-26 on 11/15 and tomorrow’s suited dry-run, CDR Wheelock, Skripochka & Yurchikhin reviewed airlock depress/repress operations for the EVA.   CDR Wheelock had ~1h set aside to unstow and prepare US EVA hardware to be used by Skripochka & Yurchikhin in the spacewalk next Monday.  Referring to uplinked tables, Doug gathered all items in a mesh bag for subsequent transfer to the RS for FE-2 & FE-5 to include in their preps.   Working in the DC1 Docking Compartment, FE-2 Skripochka & FE-5 Yurchikhin –  Installed the portable O2      tanks (BK-3)      and portable air repress bottles (BNP), Set up Orlan BRTK “Korona” and BSS (EVA Interface      Unit) comm configuration, running voice checks and testing medical      parameter acquisition of the BETA-08      ECG (electrocardiograph) harnesses with the “Gamma-1M” med complex from the PKO med exam panel      for vital signs & equipment monitoring    [EVA-26 will feature the      first use of the Orlan TMI (Telemetry Matching Unit) not over RGS (Russian      ground sites) but over CONUS (continental US), via VHF2 channel], Installed US EHIP (Extravehicular      Mobility Helmet Interchangeable Portable) lights and one WVS (Wireless      Video System) camera on Orlan-MK      #4, Installed Orlan attached      hardware (OTA)      and took photos of the outfitted Orlans      for downlink [OTA      equipment includes: right-hand swing arm with tool caddy, small trash bag,      wire ties, tethers, camera, wrench and cutters], Prepared auxiliary NASA      equipment to be used in Orlan      plus taking photos of the outfitted Orlans      for downlink, Mounted the Fresnel lens      viewing aid in the helmets, and Unstowed EVA emergency      first-aid medical packs and staged them in the PkhO (Transfer Compartment) and DC1  [NP-2/Cardiovascular      Remedies Kit & Replacement Kit were moved from the SM (Service Module)      med locker to the PkhO,      and the AB/Onboard      First Aid Kit was relocated from the Soyuz TMA-19/23S (#229) to the DC1.]     Scott Kelly configured two NIKON D2XS still cameras with 28mm lenses and transferred them to the RS for the EVA-26.    [During the spacewalk, Scott & Alex will be isolated in MRM2/24S, and Kelly will have a few audits to perform while being locked out.]   At ~11:30am, FE-3 held a teleconference with ground specialists to discuss planned activities during his RS EVA-26 Isolation.   Afterwards, Scott worked on the BCMs (Battery Charge Modules) in the US Airlock, uploading new charge parameters to the BCMs from a T61p SSC (Station Support Computer) via a USB-to-Serial cable (first time use on orbit).  The new “smoothing” parameters improve the sensitivity of the BCMs to detect charge completion.     [In the past, there were overtemperature events when the BCMs did not terminate charging quickly enough.  The new procedure allows for the update of the smoothing parameter on 3 of the 4 BCMs.  BCM-3 will be updated at a later time because it was still charging a battery.]   Preparatory to cleaning activities scheduled next week (11/17), Kelly checked out the IMV (Intermodule Ventilation) configuration in the Lab Fwd area.      [Steps included removing panels, performing CSA-O2 (Compound Specific Analyzer-Oxygen) sampling in the open cabin and behind the removed panels, verifying clamp fasteners on ducting, inspecting proper shape of air ducts, photo-documenting off-nominal hardware configurations and reinstalling closeout panels.]   Oleg completed periodic routine maintenance in the SM’s ASU toilette facility, changing out replaceable parts with new components, such as a filter insert (F-V), the urine receptacle (MP), the pretreat container (E-K) with its hose and the DKiV pretreat & water dispenser.  All old parts were trashed in Progress 39P, and the IMS was updated.     [E-K contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H2SO4 (sulfuric acid), CrO3 (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple color), and H2O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed with water in the DKiV dispenser and used for toilet flushing.]   After FE-6 Walker had retrieved an EWIS (External Wireless Instrumentation System) antenna cable from under a Lab rack (loc. P2), Scott working on the Lab ER-7/ARIS (EXPRESS Rack 7 with Active Rack Isolation System) Lab, mating all rack-to-module umbilical cables at the ER7 UIP (Utility Interface Panel).   CDR Wheelock set up the CANON G1 HD video camera at the Node-3 Cupola for an ESA activity involving nadir filming of the ISS ground path, then started the camcorder for the next 2 hrs.     [There will be multiple video recording sessions, always from the same Cupola location, to be assembled into a video called "First Orbit".  It will be used to recreate the view Yuri Gagarin would have had of the Earth from Vostok 1 by filming the same ground path from the cupola of the ISS. These new HD pictures will be cut with some of the original mission audio from the archives, to create a new 90-min film which will be given away on the Web and projected onto buildings and on big screens in cities around the world, on April 12, 2011, to mark the first 50 Years of Human Space Flight.]   Later, Wheels supported another NASA EPO (Education Payload Operations) segment, first reviewing the scheduled educational “EPO Earth/Moon/Mars” session procedures, then setting up the video camcorder for the planned DVD and teaming with Scott Kelly in using scale models to discuss size and distance between the Earth, Moon, and Mars.      [The demo was timed such that EPO ground personnel could watch, for providing real-time feedback during the demo.  The high-definition G1 camcorder tape was played back via the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter). ]   For another ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, scheduled tomorrow, FE-6 Walker charged four Makita power tool batteries in the course of the day, then stowed them temporarily.   Afterwards, Walker temporarily removed NASA rack front cargo in the JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment), then cleaned up the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).    [Activities included separating trash, particularly foam, to be disposed of in Progress 40P, from non-trash hardware and consolidating the latter to make room for coming items on future flights.  JLP rack front cargo was later to its original locations.]   Shannon then performed the regular 30-day inspection of the AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack.     [AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient.  It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.]   Later, FE-6 completed another periodic relocation of the TEPC (Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter) detector assembly, the primary radiation measurement tool in the ISS, moving it from Node-2 loc. P3 to COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) loc. A3.   Doug Wheelock undertook his 3rd session with the JAXA experiment BIORHYTHMS (Biological Rhythms), for which he put on the electrodes of the DWH (Digital Walk Holter) for ECG (Electrocardiogram) recording, then started the data take for the next 24 hrs.     [BIORHYTHMS is performed by Walker & Wheelock, with 3 data collection sessions for each of them.  Body mass is measured with SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device).  Each session collects 24 hrs worth of ECG data.  On Day 1, the Holter ECG harness is donned for recording.  On Day 2, it is removed, and the ECG data are downloaded to the MLT (Microgravity Laptop terminal).]   The CDR then completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.     [The current card (25-0001B) lists 122 CWCs (2,765.5 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (28 CWCs with 1170.0 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 712.7 L in 17 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 300.1 L in 7 bags for flushing only with microbial filter, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (84 CWCs with 1,548.2 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (16.9 L in 2 bags, with 6.3 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 6 empty bags; and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (30.4 L, in 1 CWC with 20.2 L from hose/pump flush & 10.2 bag with 2.00 L from EMU dump).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]   Later, Wheelock underwent the periodic 30-min US PHS (Periodic Health Status)/Without Blood Labs exam, assisted by Shannon Walker as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Afterwards, Wheels logged the data and stowed the equipment.  A subjective evaluation was part of the test.    [The assessment used the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data were then logged on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) and the hardware stowed.  The PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.]   Kaleri, Skripochka & Yurchikhin joined in another Russian Simvolika activity, preparing the traditional commemorative (“symbolic”) items delivered on Soyuz 23S, today stamping and signing 80 envelopes with Expedition 25 mission logo while being auto-recorded on video.  The envelopes were then stowed in 23S for return.   Sasha completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance by updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).   Oleg did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   At ~3:00am EST, the six crewmembers held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.   At ~1:00pm, Shannon powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 1:05pm conducted a ham radio session with students at St. Louis Charter School, St. Louis, Missouri.   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Lake Nasser, Toshka Lakes, Egypt (today ISS had a nadir pass in late morning with clear weather for this target area and an approach from the SW.  This time the crew was to try for detailed views of the massive Aswan High Dam on the Nile River located at the north end of Lake Nasser), La Paz, Bolivia (the Bolivian capital city is located in the western part of the country, less than 50 miles southeast of Lake Titicaca.  La Paz has a population of 1 to 2 million and is the world’s highest capital city, at over 10,000 feet elevation.  As ISS approached the Andes from the SW at mid-morning with fair skies, looking near-nadir for this target), and White Island Volcano, New Zealand (this active marine volcano is located off the coast of North Island in the Bay of Plenty.  Only a small island, just over a mile in diameter is visible above the sea surface.  ISS had an early morning pass in fair weather with minimal illumination.  As the station tracked northeastward of the coast of North Island, the crew was to look nadir for this target).  