
Payloads
Drop Vibration: The crew continued the frequency scans and science runs for the Drop Vibration experiment. These tests occurred at several difference frequencies and on different substrates. Inertial Spreading with Vibration and Water Coalescence (Drop Vibration) examines the behavior of big liquid drops whose perimeter of contact, called the contact line, moves rapidly as the drops change shape either forced by vibration or freely by merger. These motions, fast and small on Earth, become slower and larger in microgravity and so can be more closely observed. Such observations improve the currently limited understanding of contact lines, important in applications such as self-cleaning surfaces, water harvesting devices, anti-frost coatings and the fabrication of semiconductors.
GRASP: The crew performed multiple GRAPS session including Visual-Visual (visual stimulus – visual response), Visual-Manual (visual stimulus – manual response), and Manual-Manual (manual stimulus – manual response) protocols. The purpose of the Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance: Reaching and Grasping (GRASP) investigation is to better understand how the Central Nervous System (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
Materials ISS Experiment (MISSE) MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT) Operations: The crew gathered the appropriate hardware, installed the JEM On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) Transfer Interface (JOTI), and then installed the empty (MTT) #2. This will be used to support subsequent robotic ops for MISSE science retrieval. The MISSE Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) platform provides the ability to test materials, coatings, and components or other larger experiments in the harsh environment of space, which is virtually impossible to do collectively on Earth. Testing in Low-Earth Orbit (LEO) allows the integrated testing of how materials react to exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UV), atomic oxygen (AO), ionizing radiation, ultrahigh vacuum (UHV), charged particles, thermal cycles, electromagnetic radiation, and micro-meteoroids in the LEO environment. 
Space Fibers-2: The crew installed the fabrication module for a subsequent production run of the optical fiber. Due to time constraints, the crew was not able to perform the temperature check. The temperature check was to characterize the surface temperatures of the hardware after the heaters had been active for a processing cycle, and was not part of the actual science activity. This activity will be re-planned for a later time. Manufacturing Fiber Optic Cable in Microgravity (Space Fibers) evaluates a method for producing fiber optic cable from a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium and aluminum, called ZBLAN, in space. ZBLAN produces glass one hundred times more transparent than silica-based glass, exceptional for fiber optics. Microgravity suppresses mechanisms that commonly degrade fiber, and previous studies showed improved properties in fiber drawn in microgravity compared to that fabricated on the ground.
Systems
Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review: All crewmembers participated in an Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review today. Items of discussion included crew accountability, access to escape vehicles, ISS Commander responsibilities, communication and coordination, and emergency responses. Due to the complex nature of emergencies in space, it is imperative each crewmember is fully familiar with the various emergency procedures and strategies in place.
JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Wrist Vision Equipment (WVE) Video Light Unit (VLU) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew removed the failed VLU from the JEMRMS WVE and installed a spare VLU into the JEMRMS WVE in preparation for an upcoming EVA. The JEMRMS contains cameras located on the wrist and elbow to provide situational awareness. The Elbow Vision Equipment (EVE) includes a camera and a pan and tilt unit while the WVE also has an extra VLU.
Lithium Rechargeable Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Battery Assembly (LREBA) Operations: The crew terminated battery maintenance (autocycle) operations for LREBAs 1004 and 1005 using the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Lithium-Ion battery charger and the 28-volt Power Supply Assembly (PSA) Utility Power Outlet (UPO) and stowed the batteries. The crew then initiated autocycle operations on LREBAs 1006 and 1007 which are planned to be terminated on Friday.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Retraction from JPM Side
JEM Airlock Depressurization, Monitoring, and Venting
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Powerup
MSS JEM ORU Xfer I/F (JOTI) ORU Extraction (IN WORK)

