
Marrow Air Sampling: The crew performed their first Marrow air sampling collection today.  A breath sample and ambient air sample were collected and stowed for return on a later flight. The Marrow investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on the bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
Fluid Shifts Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) Checkout: The crew performed a checkout of the CCFP that arrived on the 48Soyuz vehicle. The crew configured the device and performed a functional checkout including setup and data transfer in advance of the integrated Baseline Data Collection measurements tomorrow.  The CCFP device is being evaluated as a method for indirectly measuring Intracranial Pressure (ICP).  The CCFP comprises a headset onto which is mounted an air-flow sensor which measures the amount of air pushed from the ear canal or drawn into the ear canal when the Tympanic Membrane (TM) moves.  By this method, volume displacements of the TM as small as a nanoliter (1×10-9 L) can be measured by the CCFP.   The scientists will take the CCFP data collected inflight and compare it to data collected on the ground to identify any difference in the ICP during the different flight phases and then include that with the rest of the Fluid Shifts measures to correlate the Fluid Shifts phenomenon to ICP changes.
OnBoard Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Fam and EMER Mask review:  The crew performed a review and practice session for donning Emergency masks and practicing purge technique.  They also performed a familiarization session with the emergency hardware to ensure they are familiar with the locations of equipment and the positions of valves used in emergencies.  The crew identified some deltas from the expected locations and reported those to the ground specialists so that the documentation can be updated.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Stowage Wire Kit Installation:  The crew continued the activities to install the JEM Stowage Wire Kit.  This Kit makes additional stowage available in the area under the JEM Airlock (JEMAL).  Today’s activities included removing the closeout panels and installing protective panels over the shell heaters.  The crew installed wire frames in the area directly below the JEMAL and moved four 1.0 Cargo Transfer Bags (CTBs) into that location.  The crew will be scheduled later to install additional wire frames and CTBs deck locations forward and aft of the JEMAL.    
Eye Exams:  The crew will be performing routine eye exams using Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and fundoscopy hardware. OCT hardware is used to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer. Fundoscope exam is performed to obtain images of the retinal surface.  
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Overnight, the Robotics Ground Controllers walked-off the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 3 to the MBS PDGF1.  They unstowed Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from MBS PDGF 2.  These activities are in preparation for Robotic External Leak Locator (RELL) operations planned to start Monday 28-November. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

KORREKTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
Dose Tracker Data Entry Subject [Paused]
Dose Tracker Historical Documentation Photography
Regeneration of Micropurification Unit (БМП) Ф2 Cartridge (start)
JEM Stowage Wire Kit Installation to JPM1D7 Preparation
Checkout of a spare Condensate Pumping Unit (БПК). 
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
ARED Handover Video Review
Soyuz 732 Samsung Tablet Recharge, Initiate
Fluid Shifts CCFP Baseline Setup
Soyuz 732 IRIDIUM phone recharge, setup, start charge
Fluid Shifts CCFP Functional Checkout
ТК 732 IRIDIUM Phone Charging – Battery Status Check
Soyuz 732 IRIDIUM Phone Charge, Terminate Charge, Teardown of the Setup
ISS Crew Adaptation
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops
In flight Maintenance WHC Stow
JEM Stowage Wire Kit Installation to JPM1D7
Cleaning Nikon camera Digital Image Sensor
EveryWear iPad application password setting
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Fluid Shifts Hardware Battery Installation
ПТАБ-1М Temperature Check (pos. А308).
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config Columbus Setup
KORREKTSIYA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake
PAO Preparation
СОЖ Maintenance
Date /Time Sync on 6 RS still cameras to the station time
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) in Columbus
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – OCT Exam
ПТАБ-1М Temperature Check (pos. А308).
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring
Health Maintenance System (HMS) OCT Stow
Integrated Emergency Procedure Review
IMS Update
Soyuz 732 Samsung Tablet Recharge, Terminate
Dose Tracker Data Entry Subject
Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ)
Fundoscope Setup
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Prep
ESA Active Dosimeter Mobile Unit Swap
KORREKTSIYA. Preparation for the Experiment
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Eye Exam – Fundoscope
Intermodular TORU Test with Mated Progress 433
URISYS Hardware Setup
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Tear Down and Stow

Completed Task List Items

AstroPI Vis Power On
MD Print Removal and Stow
MobiPV Battery Recharge

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

4B3 Battery reconditioning
SSRMS Walkoff to MBS1 and Unstow SPDM

