11-24-2010November 24, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/24/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  >>>>Today 41 years ago (1969), Apollo 12, with CDR Charles “Pete” Conrad, LM PLT Alan L. Bean & CM PLT Richard F. Gordon, splashed down safely after achieving the second Apollo moon landing, during which Conrad & Bean performed just over one day and seven hours of lunar surface activity at Oceanus Procellarum (Ocean of Storms).  It was the 6th crewed mission in the Apollo Program.<<<<  At day’s begin, FE-1 Kaleri conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Alex will again inspect the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  CDR Wheelock, FE-6 Walker & FE-3 Kelly continued their current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 8th for Wheels & Shannon, 3rd for Scott, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  First thing after wake-up, Walker & Wheelock had Day 4 of their 2nd liquid saliva collection of the INTEGRATED IMMUNE protocol, prior to eating, drinking, and brushing teeth.  The collections are made every other day for six days.  Wheels & Shannon also completed the blood sample collections for the IMMUNE protocol, taking turns to assist each other as operator.       [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples & analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmembers soak a piece of cotton inside their mouths and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned to the ground so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]  Also at wake-up, FE-2 Skripochka terminated his 5th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]  For the next 24 hrs, FE-3 Kelly is collecting his 2nd NUTRITION/Repository/Pro K urine samples for deposit in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Scott also had his NUTRITION/Repository blood sample drawn by FE-6 Walker, for processing in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge and storage in MELFI.     [The operational products for blood & urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood & urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]  In support of the JAXA experiment MYCO (Mycological Evaluation of Crew Exposure to ISS Ambient Air), body samples were collected in the morning by Doug Wheelock & Shannon Walker from the US crewmembers, then inserted by FE-6 into MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) at +2 degC for preservation.      [MYCO evaluates the risk of microorganisms via inhalation and adhesion to the skin to determine which fungi act as allergens on the ISS.  MYCO samples are collected from the nasal cavity, the pharynx and the skin of crew during preflight, in flight and postflight focusing particularly on fungi which act as strong allergens in our living environment.  Before sample collection, crewmembers are not to eat or drink anything except water, nor wash their face, brush their teeth, or gargle after you wake up to avoid science loss.]  Walker collected air samples with the GSC (Grab Sample Container) in the SM (Service Module), COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and US Lab, using three regular samplers.     [GSC #2037 – SM; GSC #2029 – COL; GSC #2057 – Lab.]  At about the same time, Skripochka also performed air sampling using two Russian AK-1M absorbers in the FGB & MRM1, an AK-1M-F sampler in the SM for Freon, and IPD-CO and -NH3 Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the SM cabin air for CO (Carbon Monoxide) and NH3 (Ammonia).  The samplers were stowed for subsequent return to Earth.  Afterwards, Oleg completed the regular inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).  Kaleri conducted periodic routine maintenance in the SM’s ASU toilette facility, changing out replaceable parts with new components, such as a filter insert (F-V), the urine receptacle (MP), the pretreat container (E-K) with its hose and the DKiV pretreat & water dispenser.  All old parts were trashed in Progress 39P, and the IMS was updated.     [E-K contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H2SO4 (sulfuric acid), CrO3 (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple color), and H2O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed with water in the DKiV dispenser and used for toilet flushing.]  Alex Kaleri configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his 2nd, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  Oleg took documentary photography.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic & physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]  FE-5 Yurchikhin supported the ground in switching the RS (Russian Segment) STTS comm assets from the backup to the prime string, a standard practice.     [Later, at 11:45am EST, MCC-Houston also switched the S-band strings from String 1 to String 2 in preparation for the Soyuz Undocking tomorrow evening.]  Later, FE-5 Yurchikhin used the standard ECOSFERA equipment, to conduct microbial air sampling runs for the MedOps SZM-MO-21 experiment, with the POTOK Air Purification System temporarily powered down, taking Kit 2 samples from cabin surfaces along with samples from crewmembers for sanitation and disease studies.  The Petri dishes with the samples were then stowed in the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic container and subsequently packed for return in Soyuz 23S.  Part 1 of MO-21 protocol was done yesterday.      [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger and power supply unit, provides samples to help determine microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.]  FE-1 Kaleri conducted the MO-22 Sanitary-Epidemiological Status check, part of the Russian MedOps program done usually before Soyuz departures.     [To monitor for microflora, Alex collected samples from surface areas of interior panels and hardware at 24 locations in the SM, FGB, MRM1, MRM2, DC1 and PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel), also from himself, using cotton swabs and special test tubes which were then stowed in 23S for return to the ground.]  Sasha also performed his 3rd data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.      [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group & work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]  In preparation for his return to gravity tomorrow night, Yurchikhin undertook the second session of his final training session of the Russian MO-5 MedOps protocol of cardiovascular evaluation in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP) on the Russian VELO ergometer, assisted by Kaleri as CMO.  The activity was then closed out.      [The assessment, lasting 1.5 h, supported by ground specialist tagup (VHF) and telemetry monitoring from Russian ground sites (at 4:47am EST), uses the Gamma-1 ECG equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels. The Chibis ODNT provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of the crewmembers’ orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after several months in zero-G.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by two cycles of a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -15, -20, -25, and -30 mmHg for five min. each, then -20, -25, and -35 mmHg (Torr) for 10 min. each plus 30mmHg for 5 min. while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, while wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]  With a new EDV-U container in the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment), CDR Wheelock reconnected the WHC from backflow back to feeding the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly), then reported the flush counter, a periodic activity.  Wheelock & Kelly had another hour set aside for performing remaining handover activities, as Exp-25 comes to an end and the Exp-26 crew of Scott, Alex & Oleg takes over.  Afterwards, Wheels removed the ECs (Experiment Containers) of the ESA payload SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) from the KUBIK-6 incubator drawer and turned the kit over to Skripochka who transferred it to Soyuz 23S for return to Earth, as Kaleri took documentary photography.     [Located in the EDR (European Drawer Rack), SPHINX studies how HUVEC (Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells) modify their behavior in microgravity, which could provide better knowledge of endothelial function and be useful for clinical applications.  Endothelial cells make up a thin layer lining the interior surface of blood vessels and forming an interface between the circulating blood in the hollow space (“lumen”) of the vessel and the rest of the vessel wall.  They line the entire circulatory system, from the heart to the smallest capillary, and reduce turbulence of the flow of blood, allowing the fluid to be pumped farther.]  Other science experiments transferred by Oleg to the Soyuz spacecraft’s Descent Module for return were –   BIO-2 BIORISK (a tray; Study of accommodation & exposure of "passive" samples of structural materials and "microorganisms - substrates" systems to space environment inside the ISS SM),BTKh-29/Zhenshen-2/Ginseng-2 (Study of new plants for biological products and genotypes with increased biological activity), andBTKh-42 STRUKTURA (Structure) with its Luch-2 kit (attempts to obtain high-quality protein monocrystals).   Later, FE-2 completed the periodic transfer of condensate water to an RS EDV container for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen & hydrogen, filling the designated KOV (condensate water) EDV container from a CWC.  When filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.     [The ~40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the Elektron’s BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O2 generator.]  Scott Kelly completed another weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.      [Today’s current card (25-0001D) lists 124 CWCs (2,735.2L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (28 CWCs with 1170.0 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 712.7 L in 17 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 300.1 L in 7 bags for flushing only with microbial filter, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (85 CWCs with 1,538.7 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (6.3 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 7 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (20.2 L in 1 CWC from hose/pump flush & 1 empty bag).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  Skripochka completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Kaleri did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Before beginning the major job of loading the Soyuz spacecraft, Fyodor uninstalled & removed the LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12 onboard measurement telemetry from 23S, along with its ROM unit (read-only memory, TA765B), for spares storage and re-use.  Soyuz CDR Yurchikhin then had 4 hrs reserved for packing up and stowing cargo in the spacecraft for tomorrow evening’s undocking.  Shannon Walker began another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.      [This was the 4th session with the new GC/DMS unit #1002, after the previous instrument (#1004) was used for approximately 40 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.  The AQM has not produced any data since the units were swapped a week and a half ago.  A pop-up error message on the screen pointed to the communication path between the AQM and SSC-12.  AQM settings were updated but did not solve the problem entirely.  For today’s AQM run, Shannon was to close out all other applications before initiating the run to eliminate communication conflicts as a possible failure source, and to take a photo of the SSC-12 screen prior to terminating the run to capture any additional error messages.]  Later, Shannon conducted the periodic inspection & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks).  FE-6 then closed the protective shutters of the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Lab and Cupola windows in preparation for the ISS reboost tomorrow morning and the Soyuz 23S undocking in the evening.  Kaleri performed another 1-hr refresh of the cabin air with O2 (oxygen) from Progress 39P SRPK tankage.  FE-1 also removed 12 ID-3MKS personal radiation dosimeters from the protective screens of the RBO-3-2 MATRYOSHKA-R radiation payload installed earlier (7/6/10) by Yurchikhin and handed them over in a Ziploc bag to Fyodor for return to Earth.  Skripochka activated & verified proper operation of the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM for taking structural dynamics data during the reboost and Soyuz departure.     [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control & Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]  With ISS Command now being transferred from Doug Wheelock to Scott Kelly for Increment 26, beginning this week, as sole American crewmember, with Alex Kaleri & Oleg Skripochka as Flight Engineers, Fyodor & Alex, at ~8:40am EST, signed two copies of the formal Russian handover protocol document certifying RS handover/acceptance, including the contents of Progress 39P (#407), currently docked at SM Aft, Progress 40P (#408), docked at DC1 Nadir, MRM1 Rassvet and MRM2 Poisk.     [The first copy remains on ISS, the second copy will be returned to the ground on Soyuz TMA-19.  “We, the Undersigned, have executed this Protocol to the effect that Yurchikhin Fyodor Nikolaevich, a crew member in charge of the RS E24 handed over, and Kaleri Alexandr Yurievich, a crew member in charge of the RS E25, accepted the ISS RS.”]   The traditional “Change of Command” ceremony follows later today: it is scheduled at ~4:00pm-4:20pm EST, with all crewmembers, officially marking the transfer of the baton from Increment 25 to Increment 26.  The event will be televised.    [The official “count” for I-26 begins on Friday, 11/26 (GMT 330).]  At ~6:15am, Doug powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 6:20am conducted a ham radio session with students at Istituto Leopardi - Liceo classico e scientifico, Lecco, Italy.  At ~11:05am, Shannon & Scott held the regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.  At ~4:40pm, Scott is scheduled for an early-handover teleconference with the STS-133/ULF5 crew.   At ~5:15pm, Shannon will have his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6), and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  Reboost:   A one-burn reboost of ISS is scheduled tonight shortly after midnight (12:03am EST) using the Progress 39P DPO rendezvous & docking thrusters.  Planned burn duration: 7 min 38 sec; delta-V: 1 m/s (3.28 ft/s).  Expected mean altitude gain: 1.77 km (1.1 stm.).  Purpose: to set up phasing for the ULF5 launch (currently NET 12/3) as well as for Soyuz 25S launch on 12/15.   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded today except for some nighttime city opportunities.  