
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Fraying: Yesterday, the crew reported fraying of the ARED Left Upper Stop Cable which was confirmed by ground team review of downlinked photos.  Today, the crew disengaged the Left Upper Stop Cable to prevent cable failure and inspected and straightened the Right Upper Stop Cable.  Ground teams are currently reviewing the photos of the Right Upper Stop Cable to determine if it is safe to return to nominal operations and should have an answer by this evening.  The crew is currently No Go for heel exercises and squats until the Right Upper Stop Cables are determined safe to operate. 
ELITE-S2 (ELaboratore di Immagini TElevisive, Space qualified, version 2) (Blind and Imagined): Cristoforetti gathered the ELITE hardware and configured systems in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to support the Blind and Imagined experiment which she will be performing tomorrow.  The Movement in Orbital Vehicle Experiments Short and Blind (MOVE SB) and Space Height Reference In Non-gravitational Kinetics (SHRINK) Investigations, collectively known as Blind and Imagined, are a series of tests crewmembers perform on the ISS to test their physical senses. Crewmembers move their arms and hands, and then imagine themselves throwing a ball on Earth and in microgravity, while cameras record their movement. The results will help scientists study the sensory and motor changes that take place in the unique environment of space.
 Cognition:  Wilmore loaded the Cognition software and verified the configuration on a laptop computer.  Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
3D Printing in Zero-G:  Wilmore retrieved the first coupon created by the 3D printing experiment.  During printing, the sample adhered to printing tray, so the crew removed and replaced the printing tray, then continued to monitor the printing of a third coupon to further calibrate the 3D printer.  Cristoforetti completed a review of the 3D printing in Zero-G payload overview and procedures.  The 3D printing in Zero–G technology demonstration experiment aims to validate extrusion-based additive manufacturing technology’s ability to function in a micro-gravity environment.

Cyclops/SpinSat Overview:  Wilmore and Virts reviewed overview material and procedures for the Cyclops platform install to the JEM Airlock slide table and the Special Purpose Inexpensive Satellite (SpinSat) install to the Cyclops platform planned for Wednesday, in preparation for the SpinSat deploy on Friday.  The Cyclops platform, also known as the Space Station Integrated Kinetic Launcher for Orbital Payload Systems (SSIKLOPS), holds and ejects nanosatellites from outside the ISS. The objective of the SpinSat experiment is to fly a 22-inch diameter spherical satellite equipped with an array of electrically-controlled solid propellant thrusters. It is intended to be a tumbling satellite having a mass of approximately 50 kg with a single axis momentum wheel and multiple micro-thrusters on the sphere’s surface. For its initial space flight demonstration, SpinSat aims to test movement and positioning of small satellite in space using new technology micro-thrusters.
European Physiology Module (EPM):   The crew configured hardware, relocated and stowed items in the Columbus Module in preparation for Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4) operations.  PK-4 is a scientific payload for performing research in the field of ‘Complex Plasmas’: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas.

Dynamic Surf:  Wilmore repositioned the Marangoni Deformation10 (MD10) sample core to correct for a 10mm offset seen through the Infra-Red Imager. The Dynamic Surf investigation is part of a series of JAXA experiments that examine Marangoni convection, or flow, a process driven by the presence of surface tension gradient as produced by a temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface. Fluid convection observations of a silicone oil liquid bridge that is generated by heating the one disc higher than the other within the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF). By observing and understanding how such fluids move researchers can learn about how heat is transferred in microgravity, and ultimately drive the design and development of more efficient fluid flow based systems and devices.
MagVector:  Cristoforetti configured and positioned a video camera in preparation to support the MagVector activation and science run.  MagVector qualitatively investigates the interaction between a moving magnetic field (of Earth origin) and a very good electrical conductor. The proposed set up will provide initial insights regarding the principal feasibility on board the ISS, future improvements and phenomenological trends and dependencies. The expected changes in the magnetic field structure on the Ram and Wake side of the electrical conductor are of interest for technical applications as well as for astrophysical research. In the latter case, the ISS / MagVector combination may open a way for experimental astrophysics, e.g. with regard to the interaction between the interplanetary magnetic field and Venus. Astrophysics would thus no longer be based solely on passive observation. 
Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review/Crew Handover: Today, all 6 crewmembers reviewed Emergency Book General Instructions and discussed overall emergency responses. Wilmore also started handover with the newly arrived 41S crew.
Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Compact Flash Card (CFC) Remove and Replace (R&R): Wilmore installed a new CFC in the CEVIS control panel.  The new CFC allows for transfer of CEVIS data directly to the control panel through the Joint Station LAN (JSL) eliminating the need for the crew to transfer data via Universal Serial Bus (USB) between the Station Support Computers (SSCs) and CEVIS control panel.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Laptop RS1(2) Reboot
Inspection of СМ-У connector on МНР-НС separator pump in АСУ behind panel 139 and line 5182-03 from Pretreat And Water Dispenser (ДКиВ) to МНР in its transparent section
SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test Reboot Laptop RSS1,2, BRI Temperature Check / r/g 7186
Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
OBSTANOVKA. Download of Obstanovka P/L Data from БСПН to RSS1 (start) / r/g 5161
Filling EDV from ATV5 WDS Tank 2 Using Compressor / r/g 7281, 7278
ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position Verification
EMER Roles and Responsibilities Review
ТК 715 Transfers and IMS Ops / r/g 7267
WRS Sample Collection
SM CO measurement using CMS unit / r/g 7087
Marangoni Deformation10 (MD10) Core Adjustment
Replacement of ИК0501 СО2 Filter Unit (БФ) (No. 154 (00062967R) СМ1РО_4_449_1 cont. 708-1 (00060383R). Reflect changes in IMS)
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Test comm check with МКСД / r/g 7280
BIOSIGNAL. Activation of Cryogem-03 thermostat at +29 deg C setting / r/g 7277
WDS tank 2 Bladder Leak Check Using EDV (start) r/g 7281, 7278
OBSTANOVKA. Download of Obstanovka P/L Data from БСПН to RSS1 (end) / r/g 5161
FENIX, BIOSIGNAL. Kits Transfer from Soyuz and Handover to FE-2 to setup. / r/g 7284
COL – Clearing COL1D3 items
FENIX. BIOECOLOGIA kits Receiving and Setup / r/g 7282
Clearing European Physiology Module (EPM) for PK4 Payload
VIRTUAL. Experiment Ops /r/g 7273
EPM – Lockers Refill
FENIX. Photography at Setup Location / r/g 7279
BIOSIGNAL. Place RECOMB-K hardware in CRYOGEM-03M at +29 degrees C.  / r/g 7284
WDS tank 2 Bladder Leak Check Using EDV  (second pressurization)
TOCA Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
Copying EXPOSE-R P/L data from БСПН to RSS1 / r/g 7275
IDENTIFIKATSIYA. Copy ИМУ-Ц micro-accelerometer data to laptop / r/g 6627
ENDCONE – Photography
CEVIS installation
WDS tank 2 Bladder Leak Check Using EDV (Close-out ops)
Air Heater Fan (БВН) Screen Cleaning in ТК 714 / Orbital Flight 13.7 p. 100
ELITE – Hardware Gathering
CEVIS installation
Diagnostics of FGB СУБК instruments 11М156М.
Installation ЛКТ2Д3 No.1417726325 with ROM No.1417726934 (СМ1РО_3_314_1 bag 353-8 (00037141R) on ТК 715 Reflect changes in IMS)
Bringing ODF up to date using ТК 715 delivered files
ELITE Cable Routing
PAO Event
Diagnostics of FGB Power Supply System Instruments БФ-2 and БСШ-2.  / r/g 7272
HRF1 – Hardware Setup
Elite-S2 – IMU Activation
Water processing using MCD
Copying EXPOSE-R P/L data from БСПН to RSS1 / r/g 7275
TOCA Data Recording
Cyclops/SpinSat Installation Review 
FGB Power Supply БФ-2 and БСШ-2 Diagnostics / r/g 7272
HRF1 – Hardware Setup
Crew Handover
CEVIS installation
Elite-S2 – IMU Deactivation
3D Printing in Zero-G Payload Overview
Counter Measure System (CMS) Exercise Overview
БМП Ф1 Absorption Cartridge Regeneration (termination)

Completed Task List Items

CMS ARED disengage
41S US unpack transfer [In Work] 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Nominal Commanding

