
Payloads:
Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Media Take Part 2: Using a JAXA camcorder, the crew participated in a live interview and recorded a session to discuss several subjects. The JAXA Public Relations Activity (JAXA EPO) includes conducting cultural activities such as writing reports about and filming video of activities aboard the ISS. These tools can help inform the public about the importance of the ISS, JAXA’s Kibo module, and human spaceflight.
Neural Integration System (NIS): The crew prepared for the observation phase of the NIS experiment, which is arriving on SpX-26, by removing the protection cover from the microscope of Confocal Space Microscopy and setting up the Payload Laptop Terminal 4 (PLT4). NIS has two phases: observation and incubation. Effect of the Space Environment on the Neural Integration System and Aging of the Model Animal C. elegans (Neural Integration System) uses this nematode to examine how microgravity affects the nervous system. Previous space experiments have shown that C. elegans experiences muscle atrophy and reduced motor activity and metabolism in microgravity. Research also has shown that space can affect the nervous system, and neural networks may transmit the effects of microgravity throughout the body. Results could support development of countermeasures to protect crewmembers on future space missions and contribute to better health for Earth’s aging population.
Plant Habitat Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Troubleshooting: Previous efforts to troubleshoot a possible leak in the CO2 system could not be completed due to low CO2 pressure in the tanks. Today, new CO2 bottles were installed, the system was pressurized, and troubleshooting was continued. The Plant Habitat facility will be used to support the Plant Habitat-03 experiment in the near future. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This investigation could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food, air, and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Systems:
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: Today, the crew terminated charging and removed four Li-Ion Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (LREBAs), two Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Batteries, and a Pistol Grip Tool (PGT) battery from the Battery Stowage Compartment in preparation for the upcoming USOS 3A ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Install EVA and RS EVA #56. They then installed the two EMU Batteries and two Metal Oxide (METOX) cannisters into EMU 3004 and EMU 3013. After completing these battery activities, the crew removed and re-installed the Helmet Lights, EMU Radio Frequency (RF) Camera Assembly (ERCA), and High Definition (HD) EMU Camera (HECA) on EMU 3013, reviewed all USOS 3A IROSA Install EVA robotic procedures, reviewed detailed EVA procedures, tools, and additional references, and participated in a conference with ground teams.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis. 
RS EVA Tether Inspection: To prepare for the upcoming RS EVA #56 on Friday, November 25th, the crew inspected the safety tethers and D-ring extenders. The crew inspected for Micrometeoroid/Orbital Debris (MMOD) damage or discoloration that could diminish the structural integrity of the tethers. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Medical Accessories Kit (IMAK) Unpack: The crew unpacked six new IMAKs from NG-18 and resupplied seven ISS Medical Packs and one Specialty IMAK. The IMAKs contain supplies to meet each of the crew’s medical needs.
EHS Air Quality Monitor (AQM) Vent Vacuum: As part of regular preventive maintenance, the EHS AQM vents were cleaned to remove dust buildup. The AQM is part of the EHS as an Intravehicular Activity (IVA) atmospheric monitor that is used to detect and measure Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) onboard the ISS.
Completed Task List Activities:

EVA Systems Hardware Stow

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PMA3 Ventilation
Plant Habitat Activation Commanding
SSU Shunt Test

