
Payloads:
Acoustic Diagnostics: The crew set up the Acoustic Diagnostic instrumentation with a goal of performing calibration and science measurements.  Unfortunately, these activities ran over their scheduled time and will need to be deferred to a later day.  The Acoustic Upgraded Diagnostics In-Orbit (Acoustic Diagnostics) investigation tests the hearing of ISS crew members before, during, and after flight. This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 4 (InSPACE-4): The crew set up the InSPACE-4 vial and run parameters to support two science runs.  InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Metabolic Space: The crew set up the Metabolic Space experiment instrumentation and performed a Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) exercise session while being monitored by the instrumentation.  The aim of the Metabolic Space experiment is to perform a technology demonstration of cardio-pulmonary diagnosis in space during physical activities of astronauts living aboard the International Space Station, while maintaining unrestricted mobility. This is achieved with a wearable measurement system that is directly worn by an astronaut. For this, a customized space qualified version of the MetaMax3B system is used as basis.
Thermo-Mini: Following the completion of the monitoring session, the crew doffed and stowed the Thermo-Mini headband hardware.  The goal of the Thermo-Mini investigation is to gain insight into human thermoregulation during long-duration spaceflight. Thermo-Mini is a new device that measures the core body temperature by calculating the heat flux at the head or chest. Because of its non-invasiveness, it is possible for the astronauts to wear it for many hours a day.
Systems: 
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): The crew completed Max CEVIS today which is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. The test is performed every 90 days and upon the crew’s arrival and departure from the ISS.
T2 Treadmill Maintenance:  Today, the ISS crew performed nominal six month maintenance and inspection, which included performing activities such as removing and cleaning closeout panels, inspecting treadmill belt slats and screws, vacuuming inside the rack and around treadmill, cleaning the treadmill filter screen, and reinstalling the close-out panels. The crew reported the top left snubber of the Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (VIS) hardware was misaligned which impacted the completion of the activity. Although, the issue was rectified and T2 was declared GO for use, the ground team opted to forgo the acoustic readings and unmanned activation and checkout.  The semi-annual maintenance allows the T2 treadmill exercise device to keep operating nominally as well as making note of any wear and tear.
Inflight Maintenance (IFM) Hatch Seal Inspection: The crew cleaned and inspected the N1 Port and Starboard hatches, hatch plate sealing surface and crank handles for damage or Foreign Object Debris (FOD). The inspection of the hatch seals is preventive maintenance and scheduled at 100 day intervals.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Today, the USOS crew continued preparing tools for use during next week’s EVA, which will replace the S-Band Antenna Support Assembly (SASA) on the P1 truss.  The crew also configured two GoPro cameras and verified the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER)s are functional. SAFER is a small, self-contained, propulsive backpack system (jet pack) worn during spacewalks, to be used in case of emergency only.  US EVA #78 is scheduled for Tuesday, November 30th with Joint Airlock Egress occurring at ~6:40am CST.
Completed Task List Activities:

Brine Processor Odor Feedback

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SDMS Activation
T2 Ground Deactivation
Crew Dragon Weekly System Checkout
ITCS Airlock LTL Flow Adjustments

