
Robonaut 2 Troubleshooting:   Lindgren continued troubleshooting Robonaut’s Compact Peripheral Component Interface today.    Robonaut 2 is a two-armed humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, work in high risk environments, and respond safely to unexpected obstacles. Robonaut is currently mounted inside the ISS.  In the future, it will perform tasks both inside and outside the ISS.
 
Veggie (Veg-01):  Kelly refilled the Veg-01 plant pillows with water.  The Veg-01 investigation is used to assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie facility, focusing on the growth and development of seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the composition of microbial flora on the plants and the facility.  For this run, Zinnias will be grown for 60 days and are expected to produce flowers.
 
Biological Rhythms 48 Hours:  At the end of his work day Lindgren removed the Holter Electrocardiogram and transfered data from the Holter and Acitwatch to the Medical laptop.  This investigation studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours. While the ISS schedule follows Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), it is not known whether a separate biological rhythm is imposed on long-term flight crews. To study this, astronauts wear an Actiwatch for 96 hours and a Holter electrocardiograph for 48 hours.
 
Haptics-1:  Yui set up equipment and performed experiment protocols for the rack-mounted configuration of European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) Haptics-1 investigation. The Haptics-1 experiment is performed in two different configurations to evaluate hardware and human performance under varying mounting conditions: wall-mounted on rack seat tracks and body-mounted in a vest assembly.  Haptics-1 supports analysis of engineering parameters and the merits of body-grounded versus non-body grounded force feedback to a crewmember within a microgravity environment.  The physiological property analysis will identify changes in human kinesthetic perception and performance in position and force-torque control tasks and in cognitive performance.
 
Mouse Habitat Unit (MHU):  Yui installed the spare MHU Interface Unit in the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) for checkout.  He then installed spare MHU cages into the CBEF for a ground commanded checkout.
 
Cognition:  Kornienko performed his Flight Day 233 session of the Cognition experiment today.  The Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) investigation is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software used allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
44 Soyuz (44S) Emergency Egress Drill:  The 44S Crew (Kelly, Volkov, and Kornienko) participated in an emergency decent drill.  This training session focuses on off-nominal procedures that would be used in the event the crew needs to egress the ISS and perform an emergency descent.  The drill is scheduled when the crew has been aboard the ISS for 12-14 weeks, then once every 2.5 months.
 
Port Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint (TRRJ) Survey:  Kelly configured a D4 Camera in order to perform a periodic imagery survey of the port TRRJ from the Docking Compartment 1 window. During this task, the Radiator was rotated to two different angles to photograph both sides of the TRRJ. This survey is conducted yearly for data gathering purposes.
 
ISS Reboost: This afternoon the ISS performed a reboost using 61 Progress (61P) thrusters.  Delta-V was 1.946 meters/second, burn duration was 15 minutes 32.8 seconds. This reboost sets up conditions for the 43S landing on December 11 and the 45S 4-orbit rendezvous on December 15.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Body Mass Measurement
МО-8. Closeout Ops
Ultrasound 2 – Hardware Activation
Soyuz 718 Samsung Tablet Charge – start
SSIPC FD Conference
Ultrasound 2 – Scanning
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Private Psychological Conference
Water Recovery System (WRS) Drain Waste Water Tank, initiate
CBEF – Hardware Setup
Ultrasound 2 – Data Export
Recording Greetings Video
Ultrasound 2 – Closeout Ops
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Rendezvous Review [Aborted]
BIOCARD. Experiment Ops
Water Recovery System (WRS) Drain Waste Water Tank, terminate
HRF – Hardware Setup
HAP1 – Activation
HAM radio session from Columbus [Aborted]
HAP1 Experiment
Ultrasound 2 – Deactivation and Stowage
ISS Emergency Descent OBT
Surface sampling from FGB equipment and structures
HAP1 Photography
Eye Examination
HAP1 Experiment
TV Conference with Students and Teachers of Know-How Language Center
Robonaut Node2 Camcorder Video Setup
Setup camcorder in Lab for Robonaut
VEG-01 – Refilling Root Mat with Water
Preventive Maintenance of FS1 Laptop (Cleaning and rebooting)
СОЖ Maintenance
Surface samples from FGB equipment and structures
R2 Experiment
BRI Cleaning
Private Psychological Conference
HAP1 Experiment
Video Footage for Roscosmos TV Studio
Photo Camera Setup for Radiator Inspection
P1 Radiator Imagery from DC1 window, Part 1
HAP1 – Hardware Stowage
Download Photos and Return Camera to Nominal Setup Configuration
ARED Quarterly Maintenance
HMS – OCT Hardware Stow
IMS Delta File Prep
Soyuz 718 Samsung tablet charging – end
SPRINT Exercise
NAPOR-miniRSA. Cleaning БЗУ-М vents
Closing USOS Window Shutters
Closing window 6,8,9,12,13,14 shutters
R2 – Hardware Deactivation and Stowage
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
BLR48 – Saving Experiment Data
Evening Work Prep
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
BLR48 – Saving Actiwatch Data
COGNITION – Experiment Ops
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ECON-M. Observations and Photography
URAGAN Observations and Photography
Installation of inserts to ease opening of SM interior panel locks

 
Completed Task List Items

LHA JPM1OF3 R&R

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

ISS Reboost

 
