11-20-2010November 20, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/20/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday --- Crew rest day.  >>>>Today 12 years ago (1958), the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok) “Zarya”, of Almaz legacy, was launched on a Proton rocket at Baikonur, becoming the first element of the ISS.<<<<  At day’s begin, FE-1 Kaleri conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Alex will again inspect the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  FE-6 Walker continued her current 4-day session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), her 5th onboard run, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.  Before sleeptime tonight, Shannon also set up the equipment for her last (FD180) NUTRITION/Repository/Pro K 24-hr urine collections starting tomorrow.     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 4 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]  Wheelock, Kaleri, Skripochka, Kelly & Walker completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]  At ~9:00am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  FE-1 Kaleri performed another STTS comm test over the currently active backup string on VHF1 & 2 over RGS (Russian Groundsite) from the SM (Service Module) at ~3:08am-3:34am EST.  Afterwards, Alex had ~30 min for the standard Shuttle RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) onboard familiarization training, his first, using a NIKON D2Xs digital still camera with 400mm & 800mm lenses and taking practice shots of CEO (Crew Earth Observation) ground features from SM windows #6 or #8, with images having 40-50% overlap and about 20 images in each sequence.  Afterwards, Sasha transferred the shots to an SSC (Station Support Computer) for subsequent downlink for ground analysis.     [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the next Shuttle (STS-133/Discovery/ULF5), to be launched NET 11/30.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Discovery, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]  Kelly configured the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) for using the internal EDV-U container, and reported the flush counter.  With video monitoring of his activity via MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter), Scott also transferred all CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment) tapes from the “Return to Houston” bag to the CFE CTB (Cargo Transfer Bag).     [The tapes no longer need to be returned to the ground since the CFE PD (Payload Developer) has determined that the quality of the high definition downlink is in general acceptable for their scientific analysis.]  FE-5 Yurchikhin had another ~90 min to continue the stowage process on Soyuz 23S, arranging return cargo in the SA Descent Module (spuskayemyy apparat) for transfer to a representative at the landing site, and trash & other discarded stuff in the BO Orbital Module.  Fyodor also spent ~2h in the MRM1 “Rassvet” module, inspecting and cleaning the MGK cover sealing mechanism of the hatch between MRM1 & Soyuz 23S.     [After removing the protective covers with its fasteners, Fyodor performed a visual and photographic inspection of the MGK mechanism, its internal gear and the entire MGK.  With new filters installed in the vacuum cleaner, the system was then cleaned and the MGK drive cover re-installed nominally.]   FE-6 Walker performed the periodic camera setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) with Sample 8 (done at Days 1, 3 & 5 after initialization).  Shannon & Wheels filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  At ~6:50am, Oleg Skripochka, Fyodor Yurchikhin & Alex Kaleri supported a Russian PAO TV interview exchange for the NAUKA 2.0 science documentary project by Yedinaya Media Gruppa TV Studios.    [The project’s features will be broadcast on Rossiya 2, Rossiya 24 & Moya Planeta channels. With documentaries such as ‘Space. One Step To The Launch’, ‘Evolution of a Space Suit’, ‘A Launchpad In French Guyana’ already being familiar to the TV viewers, the production team is now in the middle of shooting of a new feature on space food and meals arrangement.]  Doug Wheelock had two PFCs (Private Family Conferences), at ~1:15pm & 2:50pm, via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5/2x), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-3), and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Five -- Week 8).  2D NANO Template (JAXA):    No report.  3D SPACE:    No report.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera):    No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS):    Complete.  ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI):     All 6 SDU's were acquiring radiation data up to 11/18 when one of the SDUs got out of limit. The 5 other SDU's continue to acquire science data.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium:    No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System):   No report.  BCAT-4/5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 4/5):     Sample 8 continues to evolve rapidly towards a stable state after nearly 3 days of experiment execution at the time of this report.  At this stage, phase separation is all but arrested but the crystals are becoming more visible.  Thanks to a near perfect setup executed by the dedicated and by now BCAT-5 expert Shannon Walker, high quality data continue to be collected to document the evolution of this last Canadian sample from Simon Fraser University.  On this Excel file, please see worksheet (tab) labeled "BCAT-5" containing a processed picture of Sample 8, it also describes in more details the current status of the experiment.  BIOLAB (ESA):    On 11/16 an alignment test of rotor A was successfully performed from ground.  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms):    Doug performed on 11/11-11/12.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment):    No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES:    No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA):    No report.  CARDIOCOG-2:   Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench):   No report.  CBEF (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED:    No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS):    No report.  CERISE (JAXA):    No report.  CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2):     “Scott:  The "CCW (counter clockwise) wet test" operation for VG1 you completed on 11/12, finishes the test matrix for this unit.  This operation went well as the results from the first two operations really helped to refine the critical wetting angles that the PI is looking for.  Although the planned science was completed, the PI and team are excitedly reviewing the data from your work, and are identifying potentially 4 more VG1 runs of "extra science" if future opportunities become available!  As for the overall status for CFE-2, ICF1 has been completed; ICF2 has one additional operation to complete the "bubble shake" tests, and VG2 has yet to be started.  Thanks again for your careful, precise work.”  CFS-A (Fungi-A):   Awaiting ULF5 launch.  CSI-3/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #2/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5):    Ongoing.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2):  Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex:    No report.  Commercial Photo (JAXA):   No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2):    No report.  CubeLab:    No report.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):    Complete.  DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization, CNES/NASA):    No report.  DomeGene (JAXA):    Complete.   DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS, ESA):    Acquiring science data with DOSTEL-2 detector.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students):    No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA):    No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2):    Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System):   No report.  ENose (Electronic Nose):   No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module):    Activated in support of CARD.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Hobbies):      No report.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Kids in Space):   No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA):    No report.  EPO COMMERCIAL (JAXA):    No report. . EPO 3-min Video (JAXA):   No report.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA):    Closed out on 3/15.  EPO Space Clothes (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA):   No report.  EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA):    Space Bottle has been wrapped with Kapton tape and moved to the airlock for ULF5 EVA on 10/14. This bottle will be exposed in space by ULF-5 shuttle EVA.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Try Zero-G (JAXA):    No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA):   Complete.  EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA):    No report.  EPO Poem (JAXA):   No report.  EPO Spiral Top (JAXA):   No report.   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.]    No report.  ETD (Eye Tracking Device):    Completed.  FACET-2 (JAXA):   No report.   FERULATE (JAXA):    No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble):     No report.  Fish Scales (JAXA):     Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA):   No report.  FOCUS:    No report.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA):     Simultaneous measurements of FSL Microgravity Measurement Apparatus (MMA) with SAMS were performed on 11/11 and 11/12 for cross-calibration and the collected data were downlinked for further ground analysis on 11/15.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA):     No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA):     No report.  GEOFLOW:    No report.  HAIR (JAXA):   Hair sampling sessions for Walker and Wheelock were completed on 11/12.  HDTV System (JAXA):   Was delivered by HTV1.  Holter ECG (JAXA):   No report.  HQPC (JAXA):   Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA):    HREP is operating nominally and 2067 images have been taken to date.  The most recent HICO images taken include the Gulf of California, areas off the southern California coast, part of the east coast of Florida and part of the Caspian Sea.  HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA):    No report.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA):   Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular):     “Shannon, you have now completed all of your ICV on-orbit sessions!  We understand that the tasks associated with ICV have been challenging and the experiment team truly does appreciate all of your considerable efforts to ensure experiment success.  With the  R-15 session behind us, we look forward to seeing you on the ground for some final BDC sessions.”  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS):      Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE:   No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2):    No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA):    No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio:     “The contact with the Euro Space Center in Belgium via the volunteer ground station in Australia was successful.  Doug, you answered 15 questions during the pass and this was your fifteenth contact (thought you will like the numbers).  Additionally, we are still waiting on feedback from Holy Catholic Family School (Colorado) for the pass that was completed today.  Please note the pass still counts as a success. We count a successful contact when 3 or more questions are answered.”  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation):    No report.   KID/KUBIK6:    No report.  Kids in Micro-G:    No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA):    No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System):    No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA):    No report.  Marangoni Exp (JAXA):    -12th run: 11/11-11/12; -13th run: 11/17-11/12; -14th run was on 11/18-11/19.  Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA):    Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc19&20.  MDCA/Flex:  See under CIR.  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility):    No report.   Microbe-2 (JAXA):    No report.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO):   Complete.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus):  No report.  MISSE-7 (Materials ISS Experiment):    MISSE-7 is operating nominally and all Science data continues to be downlinked.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA):   Completed on 19A FD4.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment):   No report.  MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA):    No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements):   Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1:   Completed.  MYCO 3 (JAXA):    Sampling sessions for Walker and Wheelock are currently planned for 11/23-11/24.  MyoLab (JAXA):   Completed on 4/20.  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA):    Returned on 19A.  NEURORAD (JAXA):   No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration):    No report.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA):    Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK:    “Scott, since the last weekly science summary your session has moved a little.  The blood draw for your FD60 session is now planned to occur on 11/24 with urine ops beginning on 11/24 and closing out on 11/25.”  PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA):   No report.   PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 3/4; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space):    No report.  PASSAGES (JAXA):    No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit):   No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth):    In progress in Ryutai Rack.   PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA):    See PCG.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space):    Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA):    Complete.  Pro K:    “Wheels, thanks for completing your last Pro K inflight session.  Your photos and Excel file have been received on the ground.  We anticipate the arrival of your samples. Happy Landings Wheels!  Shannon, although we know that you have not completed your final Pro K session, we would like to thank you for your participation.  We look forward to seeing you on the ground. Happy Landings!”  RadGene & LOH (JAXA):   Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA):    Samples were returned to ground on ULF3.  RST/Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS):    "Wheels and Shannon: The actual number of Reaction Self Test sessions you will complete is 101 and 100 respectively.  We have been carrying 115 as a planning number.  Thank you for your participation in Reaction Self Test throughout your Increment!  Scott: thank you for your continued participation in Reaction Self Test!"  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA):    No report.  SAIBO Rack (JAXA):     No report.  SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems):     No report.  SAMPLE:    Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA):    No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA):    Continuous operation from Inc 19&20.  SHERE (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment):   Complete.  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device):     No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight):    "Shannon and Wheels:  We have scheduled your last week of Sleep logs to begin on Monday.  Due to the early undock of 23S on the 26th, this will be a short week of logging.  Your final activity for Sleep will be the Actiwatch Doff on Thursday the 25th.  Thank you for your participation in our study and we look forward to seeing you on the ground!  Scott:  We have scheduled your next week of Sleep logging to begin on Monday.  Wheels and Scott: thank you for performing the Actiwatch downloads this week.  The next Actiwatch activity will take place after 23S has undocked to download Wheels' and Shannon's Actiwatches for the last time and prepare Scott's for continued use."  SMILES (JAXA):   10th recooling warm-up process is on-going (it is in warming process now).  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA):    No report.  SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid):    No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory):   Sun observation window #34 has started on 10/29 and ended on 11/09.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity):    No report.  Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System):    No report.  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite):     No report.  SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA):     “Scott, thanks for the temperature checks, the SPHINX samples are now kept refrigerated in KUBIK-6 until 23S return.”  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment):   No report.     SPINAL (Spinal Elongation):    No report.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft):   No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA):    No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA):   “Thanks, Wheels, for completing your 6th and last THERMOLAB session during your VO2max protocol.  The data has been downlinked and all data look good from a technical point of view. They have been passed on to the science team.”  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities):   Planned.  TRIPLELUX-B (ESA):    No report.  ULTRASOUND:    Planned.  VASCULAR (CSA):   No report.   VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA):    No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA):    Acquiring science nominally..  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA):    “Shannon, congratulations with finishing your last session, again very smooth.  The science team reported to receive good images.”  VO2max (NASA):    “Wheels and Shannon, great job on your final sessions! Data analysis will begin soon. We look forward to seeing you on R+1.”  VLE (Video Lessons ESA):    No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA):    No report.  YEAST B (ESA):    No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation):    Through GMT Day 32, the ground has received 5,609 of ISS CEO frames for review and cataloging.  “We are pleased to report your acquisition of the following targets with times corresponding to those of our daily CEO Target Request lists:  N’Djamena, Chad – excellent views – requirements met for this target; Teide Volcano, Canary Islands, Spain – great detailed views as requested – requirements complete; Nouakchott, Mauritania – nice job on this difficult target – requirements complete; Bamako, Mali – numerous nice shots – requirements complete; Kathmandu – nice detailed views – under review for completeness; Kabul, Afghanistan – a number of fine views of this low-contrast target – requirements complete; Lake Nasser, Toshka Lakes, Egypt – great detailed views of the High Aswan Dam area – seasonal requirement are complete for this large target area; and Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic – best views in recent years – requirements are complete for this target.  As imagery requirements are met for our targets we are able to remove them from your Increment request lists. Thank you for your fine efforts in acquiring useful views of our targets at such a rapid pace.  Your awesome photo of the Nile River Valley and Delta of Egypt at night was published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website recently and since has appeared in numerous media outlets both national and international – thanks for this wondrous view!    Your incredibly detailed view of the Reliant Park Area, Houston, TX was published on NASA/GSFC's Earth Observatory website this past weekend.  A subset of this handheld digital camera image has a spatial resolution of 2-3 meters per pixel, making it one of the highest spatial resolution images yet obtained from the ISS.  Kudos to the crew!”  Today’s CEO:    ISS daylight-awake orbit tracks have progressed into a seasonal pattern in which they temporarily parallel the terminator.  Consequently most of the nadir views of CEO target areas fall below the criterion for illumination, with darkness to the left of track and adequate lighting right of track.  This condition is expected to persist for the next seven to ten days.  Some targets for nighttime photography of major cities were uplinked.  