
Food Acceptability Questionnaire: The crew performed the Food Acceptability questionnaire. Food Acceptability seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  The results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification – Multi-use Variable-g Processing Facility (MVP Cell-05): The crew set up the MVP facility to support the first run of MVP Cell-05. The MVP facility is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others. It includes internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity.  MVP Cell-05 investigates the complex process of cement solidification at gravity levels of interest (lunar, Mars and 0.7-g).
Veg-03G Plant Check:  Today the crew checked the VEG-03G experiment plants, took photos, and watered as necessary. The current plan is to harvest next week. The ground team noted they are seeing a slight phenotypical difference between the flight Dragoon lettuce and what they have grown on the ground.  Phenotype refers to traits expressed as a result of environmental factors. Veg-03G is currently in a ~28-day growth cycle, which began on 25-October for the Red Russian Kale and Dragoon Lettuce plants. The primary goal of the Veg-03 G/H/I testing is to demonstrate plant growth in the Veggie hardware using leafy green vegetables as a test crops.
Northrop Grumman 10 (NG-10) Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued to perform early cargo unloading operations today. Ground Teams estimate 3.5 hours remain for unloading critical items.  Once critical items have been unloaded from Cygnus, the hatch will be closed until after the SpX-16 Dragon mission.   
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


LSR Checkout

