
Payloads
Drop Vibration: The crew continued with the Drop Vibration experiment.  These tests occurred at several different frequencies and on different substrates.  Inertial Spreading with Vibration and Water Coalescence (Drop Vibration) examines the behavior of big liquid drops whose perimeter of contact, called the contact line, moves rapidly as the drops change shape either forced by vibration or freely by merger. These motions, fast and small on Earth, become slower and larger in microgravity and so can be more closely observed. Such observations improve the currently limited understanding of contact lines, important in applications such as self-cleaning surfaces, water harvesting devices, anti-frost coatings and the fabrication of semiconductors. 
ISS Experience: The crew set up the ISS Experience hardware and began recording of a meal and the Russian crew performing science activities.  The International Space Station Experience (The ISS Experience) is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station. Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.  The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Muscle Tone in Space(Myotones): The crew performed a Session of Myotones Measurements on 10 specific locations (7 muscles, 2 tendons and 1 fascia were studied).  The Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation are expected to provide insight into principles of human resting muscle tone, which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions.
Plant Habitat-02 Leaf Sample: The crew gathered the necessary hardware and performed the 3rd and final leaf sampling for this growout of the Radish plants.  This third leaf sampling activity went well and the plants look good over all.  Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants.
Systems
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization: The crew completed the Emergency Hardware OBT which is designed to familiarize the crew with the locations of equipment and the positions of valves used in emergencies as well as practice communication from the Russian Segment (RS) modules in case of emergency.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Battery Operations: The crew terminated autocycles for Lithium Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (LREBAs) 1006 and 1007. The crew also terminated Charge-Discharge-Charge maintenance cycles for four helmet light batteries and Rechargeable Battery Assemblies (REBAs) 1014 and 1015. The crew then stowed the items in the airlock. This completes the final rounds of EVA battery charging in order to support potential December United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) EVAs.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations/Materials ISS Experiment (MISSE)-14 Return: In preparation for MISSE-14 return on SpX-21, yesterday, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm1 for the Material on ISS Experiment Sample Carrier (MSC) transfer from MISSE– Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) to the MISSE-Transfer Tray (MTT).
They first started with get-ahead tasks where SPDM Arm1 handling the Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) interface with contingency bare bolts to:

Retract Trolley on MSC-8 at FF-R3
Close Hinge on MSC-4 at FF-R2
Close Hinge on MSC-11 at FF-R1

Closing  Hinge on MSC-8 at FF-R3 was unsuccessful as the mechanism on the MSC side jammed. It was decided to leave MSC-8 on MISSE-FF.
Then, SPDM Arm1 was maneuvered to transfer from MISSE-FF to MISSE TT:

MSC-11 from FF-Ram 1 to MTT Slot 2
MSC-4 from FF-Ram 2 to MTT Slot 4
MSC-17 from FF-Wake 2 to MTT Slot 6
MSC-18 from FF-Zenith 1 to MTT Slot 1
MSC-19 from FF-Zenith 2 to MTT Slot 3

Finally, SSRMS and SPDM were positioned for park. MSC transfer operations resumed today.
Completed Task List Activities:

EXPRESS Cable Relocate [Active]
NOD2O2 Unstow [Active]
Crew-1 Debrief [Active]

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Regenerative Recycle Tank Drain Support
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Powerup
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Materials on ISS Experiment (MISSE) Sample Carrier (MSC) Transfer (IN WORK)

