
Sprint Ultrasound:  Kelly performed his Flight Day 240 thigh and calf ultrasound scans today with assistance from Lindgren and guidance from the Sprint ground team.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of the long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
 
Fine Motor Skills:  Kornienko completed a session of the Fine Motor Skills experiment.  During the experiment he performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. Fine Motor Skills sessions completed by Kelly and Kornienko will provide data for identification of trends or variations in fine motor performance in microgravity over the duration of their year-long space mission and upon their return to earth.
 
EXPRESS (EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station) Rack 6 Laptop Software Load:  Yui supported the ongoing software updates to ISS EXPRESS Rack laptops by copying a software load to the EXPRESS Rack 6 laptop.  These software updates include enhanced security with the Windows 7 operating system, new features and support for new capabilities.
 
Crew Handover Conference:  Kelly, Volkov, and Kornienko conducted a video conference with Soyuz 45 Crew (Malenchenko, Kopra, and Peake) in order to pass along lessons learned. The purpose was to begin the handover process prior to the arrival on orbit through video conferences and data exchanges between the current crew and the upcoming crew.  Soyuz 45 is scheduled to launch from the Baikonur Cosmodrome on 15 December 2015.
 
Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 1:  Kelly, Lindgren, and Yui utilized a Robotic Trainer in order to practice nominal and off nominal Cygnus rendezvous and capture scenarios.  Orbital ATK (OA)-4 is scheduled to launch on December 3rd with rendezvous and berthing occurring December 6th.
 
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS):  Today robotic ground controllers commanded the SSRMS to grapple the PMM Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) using Latching End Effector (LEE) B in support of the investigation into the rigidize mechanism anomaly that occurred during HTV-5 release.   Unloaded checkouts were performed on October 23rd.   Loaded checkouts were successfully performed today and the data gathered will be assessed by the team.  Then controllers performed LEE-B diagnostics on the prime string and SSRMS brake and joint diagnostics on both strings, in preparation for OA-4 capture and berthing in December.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HMS – Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Setup
Virus Definition File Update on Auxiliary Computer System (ВКС) Laptops
USND2 – Hardware Activation
Fluid Integrated Rack (FIR) – Review
SPRINT – Scanning Ops
Fine Motor Skills
Eye Examination [Deferred]
On MCC Go БД-2 Test
SPRINT – Operator Assistance
Photography of SM window 02, 12, and EV2 hatch glass in MRM2
FIR – ELC Hardware Setup
HMS – OCT Equipment Stowage
Removal of Video Equipment Used to capture БД-2 Exercise and Downlink the file
Soyuz 717 Samsung Tablet Charge – start
Evaluation of Orthostatic Stability with LBNP
ER6 – Closeout Ops
Clean Bench (CB)  Checkout
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill [Deferred]
JRNL – Journal Entry [Unmarked]
Crew handover conference
USND2 – Hardware Deactivation
Disassembly of КЦП Unit (#10Ю=А805), S/N 004/СРС
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Blood Pressure Cuff Troubleshooting
Fluid Integrated Rack (FIR) – Hardware Reconfiguration
Symbolic Activity / r/g 0645
Express Rack Label Updates
Filling (separation) EDV (KOV) No.1106 (00063570R, ФГБ1ПГО_1_111) from EDV No.1169 (00068247R, ФГБ1ПГО_1_107) for Elektron system
Date and Time Synchronization on 6 RS photo cameras to the station time
Repairs of SM Interior Panel 326 by Installing Overlay Panel – Day 2
Closing Lab window shutter within 3 meters of SSRMS operation
ROBoT OBT  Session 1
Soyuz 717 Samsung tablet charging – end
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
ER6 –  DVD insertion and SW load
Unlatching N2 Nadir Hatch Hard Stops
IMS Delta File Prep
Fundoscope Exam Setup (instilling eye drops for a pupil dilation)
СОЖ Maintenance
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
HABIT – Experiment Ops [Unmarked]
Fundoscope Setup for exam
Disassembly of КЦП Unit (#10Ю=А805), S/N 004/СРС (FM)
Fundoscope – Eye Exam
Symbolic Activity
Equipment stowage after Fundoscope Eye Imaging
BLR48 – starting measurement
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Profile of Mood States (POMS) Questionnaire
FIR – Reconfig for nominal ops
ER6 – DVD Removal from the Laptop
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
URAGAN Observations and Photography
Installation of inserts to ease opening of SM interior panel locks (Unstow Structural Elements kit)

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

SSRMS LEE-B Grapple of PMM FRGF and Data Gather
NORS Heater Test

 
