
Cygnus Cargo Operations:  The crew completed 12 hours and 45 minutes of Cygnus cargo operations today, at this time the crew has completed 84% of the cargo operations for this Cygnus mission.  Ground specialist estimate the crew will require approximately 8 hours to complete the remaining cargo operations.  
Sarcolab-3: After successfully completing three days of the ankle protocol, today a USOS and Russian subject completed the first day of the knee protocol for Sarcolab-3, by ingressing into the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) chair, installing the knee Electromyography (EMG) electrodes, and conducting the knee exercises. The final knee protocol activity will be completed next week. The Sarcolab-3 data will be compared to pre and post flight measurements to assess the impact of hypothesized microgravity induced muscle loss.  Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus (calf muscle) where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crewmembers before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Veg-03 Harvest and Stow: The crew performed the final harvest of the 4th Veg-03 experiment run from the Veggie plant growth facility. The plant samples, swabs, and plant pillows were inserted into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) after the plants were harvested and the swab samples were collected, The Veggie equipment was then cleaned and stowed. Veg-03 contains six plant grow out and harvests sessions. The 4th, 5th, and 6th sessions are the first of their kind because they contain a mixed harvest of cabbage, lettuce and mizuna, which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crewmembers to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03 uses the Veggie plant growth facility.
NanoRacks Vuze (One Strange Rock) Camera Mounted Operations: The crew deployed the NanoRack Vuze camera to record 3-Dementional 360-degree videos inside of the ISS. The mounted camera will capture a day in a life style footage as the crew goes about their nominal tasks throughout the ISS. National Geographic Channel–Virtual Reality Educational Video for Television Series–“One Strange Rock” (One Strange Rock Virtual Reality) is a 10-part series that transports a virtual reality camera to the ISS for recording of a National Geographic special on the Earth as a natural life-support system. Crew aboard the ISS record a series of virtual reality pieces for incorporation into a larger documentary about natural history and the solar system. Each episode features a different crewmember and addresses different topics using next generation virtual reality technology to raise awareness about the Earth system and the space program.
Earth Imagery from ISS Target Operations: The crew captured images and footage of the Nile Delta at night. The Earth Imagery from ISS investigation creates a series of videos, showcasing Earth from space. These videos will be taken with cameras on the International Space Station in 6K hi-resolution, then integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement. 
Fundoscope Eye Exam:  ISS and FE-4 completed routine fundoscope exams today.  Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) Weekly Conference
Restore functionality of the FIT application.
MARES Knee Shaving Preparation
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
EMG electrodes installation and Sarcolab knee protocol execution
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Replacement of Air Conditioner [СКВ2] Power Supply Unit.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Demating telemetry connector from [СКВ2] Power Supply Unit.
Replacement of Air Conditioner [СКВ2] Power Supply Unit.
MARES knee setting adjustments
Mating [СКВ2] power supply telemetry connector.
JEM MSPR ELT Relocate for FROST2 Temperature Monitor.
Replacement of Air Conditioner [СКВ2] Power Supply Unit.
JEM FROST2 Rotate
MARES subject electrodes equipment assistance
JEM FROST2 View Check
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations
Photo TV Soyuz Imagery
MARES knee setting adjustments
NanoRacks Vuze Camera – Deployed Video Recording
Testing Central Post Computer 2 (КЦП2) (Part 2).
VEG-03 MWA Preparation
MARES Knee configuration fit check
VEG-03 Harvest
CubeSat Bag Locate
Camcorder setup to capture БД-2 exercise
Transfer CD Library
VEG-03 MELFI Insertion #2
NanoRacks Vuze SD Card Removal from SSC
VEG-03 Harvest
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
Earth Imagery from ISS Nikon Target Operations
NanoRacks Microbial Growth Experiment Imagery
Removal of Video Equipment Used to capture БД-2 Exercise and Downlink the file
Payload Network Access Server Hard Disk Drive Swap
Miniaturized Particle Telescope
Cygnus Cargo Operations Conference
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Eye Exam – Fundoscope Prep
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Eye Exam – Fundoscope
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Fundoscope Tear Down and Stow
PROBOY. Terminate Data Copy 

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Standard commanding

