11-29-2010November 29, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 11/29/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Underway: Week 1 of Increment 26.  After wakeup, FE-2 Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator.      [The filters were installed by Maxim Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Oleg will again inspect the filters before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  CDR Kelly continued his current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 3rd session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Kelly also undertook his 7th weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.   His commensurate overnight fast started last night.      [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.]   Kaleri scan-checked on the periodic refresh of the IUS AntiVirus program in the Russian VKS network laptops RSS1, RSS2 & RSK1 which are loaded automatically from the ground (RSS2 once a week on Friday, RSS1 & RSK1 from a special software program on RSS2), and updated the Norton AV database on the auxiliary (non-networked) machines RSK2, RSE1 & RSE-med.  Sasha also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  Scott Kelly began another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.      [This was the 5th session with the new GC/DMS unit #1002, after the previous instrument (#1004) was used for approximately 40 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  The CDR had several hours set aside for the yearly maintenance  of the T2/COLBERT treadmill, performing 6-month inspection tasks, greasing axles, checking belts and securing RPS (Rack Power Switch) and snubber knobs.  Afterwards, Scott set up the video equipment for real-time monitoring and took the T2 through an unmanned ACO (Activation & Checkout) run, followed by the regular inspection of the joints of T2 snubber arm stacks (to track structural integrity of the hardware) and the SBS (Series Bungee System) bungees,- part of the quarterly inspections.  Skripochka meanwhile completed the regular weekly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization).     [This is primarily an inspection of the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices) in contingency configuration, SLD cables for fraying and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time & date values.]  Later, with Elektron O2 generator, BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system & VD-SU control mode turned off, Oleg & Alex replaced eight of the ten DS-7A smoke detectors of the SM Signal-VM fire detection system with new units, then updating the IMS (Inventory Management System).  The two DS-7As in the PkhO (Transfer Compartment) and PrK (Transfer Tunnel) were not replaced.  BITS and VD-SU were reactivated afterwards, and the DS-7As were powered on by ground command.  Afterwards, FE-2 remated BITS2-12 & VD-SU telemetry cables and closed out the IFM, then monitored the reactivation of the Russian Elektron by ground commanding, checking the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.      [Temperature is checked twice, about 3-4 minutes apart, with the MultiMeter with temperature probe.  The standard manual check is required because the gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.  Elektron had to be turned off while the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system & VD-SU control mode were temporarily deactivated for the smoke detector replacement.]  Scott worked on the A31p laptops used to store data of the crew’s recent sessions under the RST (Reaction Self Test) protocol, transferring the files & directory listing to OpsLAN (Operations Local Area Network) for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [RST (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift (therefore, for the next sleep shift sequence RST is scheduled twice daily from 11/1 through 5 days after the STS-133 crew lands). The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Afterwards, the CDR collected the periodic water samples from the EHS PWD (Environmental Health Systems / Potable Water Dispenser) Ambient port for subsequent in-flight analysis.     [Collected were one 50mL sample in a small waste water bag & one 125mL sample for the in-flight chemistry/microbiology analysis, using MCD (microbial capture device) and CDB (coliform detection bag) from the U.S. WMK (water microbiology kit) for treatment/processing after no more than 6 hours of the collection.  Sample analysis included subsequent processing of water samples in the MWAK (microbial water analysis kit) for inflight coliform bacteria (Escherichia coli) detection.  Results of the on-board processing will be available after a two-day incubation period (T+2d), in case of the MWAK after 4-6 days of incubation.]  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR), and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded today.  