
AMS-02 (Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer) EVA Preparation: The crew continued preparation for the AMS repair EVAs with procedure reviews.  The multiple AMS-02 repair EVAs are being performed to recover a series of cooling pumps within the AMS-02 experiment. The first of the series of EVAs occurred last Friday. The second EVA is scheduled to occur this Friday, November 22nd.  AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays.
BEST Sample Transfer: The crew performed the routine cell maintenance activities for week 11 of the on-going BEST experiment 2. These activities involve cell transfer, cell culture media exchange, etc.  This type of long-term bacterial growth experiment has not been performed before on ISS.  The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
CBEF-L (Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L) Incubator Installation: The crew performed activities in support of part 1 of the CBEF-L incubator installation into the Saibo Rack.  CBEF-L is a new JAXA subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the ISS. CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as full high definition video interface, Ethernet, a 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
J-SSOD-12 (JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-12): All 3 satellites were successfully deployed via ground commanding on today.  The satellites were:

AQT-D (AQua Thruster-Demonstrator) from Japan:  This satellite has one Delta-V-Thruster (< 4 mili-Newtons of Force) for orbital maneuvers and four Reaction-Control-Thruster (< 1 mili-Newtons of Force) for reaction control.  These thrusters use water as a propellant.
RWASAT-1 (RWanda Satellite-1) from Rwanda: RWASAT-1 has two cameras for monitoring the status of agriculture, and a receiver for data collection from ground based sensors.
NARSSCube-1 (National Authority for Remote Sensing and Space Sciences) from Egypt:  The CubeSat carries a small camera with a ground resolution of 200 meters to gather imagery of Egyptian territory.

The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
Radi-N2 Retrieve: The crew retrieved all eight detectors and pouches from the Node 1 locations and delivered them to the Russian crew member for data download. The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight. It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
HRF Ultrasound Unit Replacement: The crew assisted with the replacement of the current Ultrasound 2 unit with an identical replacement unit.  This is not in response to any anomalies, but due to a CMOS (Complementary metal–oxide–semiconductor) battery lifetime issue.  The Ultrasound 2 on the ISS is a modified commercial off-the-shelf Ultrasound system that provides high-resolution ultrasound images of target areas in the human body. The Ultrasound unit works in conjunction with the Human Research Facility (HRF) Video Power Converter, which provides the capability of real-time ultrasound video downlink. The real-time video allows ground personnel to remotely guide crew members in order to obtain the best possible images for use by investigators or medical personnel.
Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor: The crew used a GSC (Grab Sample Container) to collect an ISS cabin air sample within two meters of the Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor.  This Grab sample can be subsequently analyzed on the ground for data comparison purposes. The Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor investigation demonstrates the capabilities of a small, reliable, portable gas chromatograph/mass spectrometer instrument aboard the ISS to conduct major and minor elements of air measurement (Nitrogen, Oxygen, Carbon Dioxide, Methane, Water, etc). The instrument transmits data back to the ground research team every two seconds, providing a continuous analysis to the ground research team. It has a mass of less than 9.5 kg, and consumes less than 40 watts of power.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Operations: The crew performed WHC preventative maintenance today.  They gathered the necessary parts for EDV (Water Container [sic]) transfer hose replacement, then configured the Pre-Treated Urine T-Valve by depressurizing the installed EDV transfer hose and replaced the degraded transfer hose with a new hose.
Hatch Seal Inspection: The ISS crew cleaned and inspected the USOS Hatch Seals, Hatch Plate Sealing Surface, and Crank Handle Mechanism for debris or damage.  Hatch seal inspections are part of periodic maintenance.  
Completed Task List Activities:

iPad Check Apple Operating System Downloads

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Payload Operations Support

Thursday, 11/21 (GMT 325) (½ Crew Duty Day for EVA Crew):
Payloads:


AMS EVA procedure review
BFF test print
Food Physiology
GBF leak check
ISS Experience
ISS HAM pass
NutrISS
RR-14 crew conference
TReK video setup
Veg-04B plant check

Systems:

73P Stowage Operations
Inventory Management System Conference 

Friday, 11/22 (GMT 326) AMS EVA #2
Payloads:


ISS Experience
NutrISS
Veg-04B plant check 

Systems:

AMS EVA#2 Robotic Support
EHS Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Stow

Saturday, 11/23 (GMT 327)
Payloads:


ISS Experience stow
Veg-04B
TReK video shutdown and WORF laptop re-cable

Systems:

Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Debrief
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Initiate

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


UF-ATMOSFERA. PL Deactivation
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Deployment Operations
ISS Experience Hardware Stow
Max Cycle Ergometer w/ Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Set Up
Environmental Health System (EHS) Grab Sample Container (GSC) Sampling Operations
AMS Procedure/video review
Weekly monitoring of video recording equipment performance on the ISS RS
[СТТС] Configuration for MRM1
Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor Grab Sample Container Collection in the LAB
VIZIR. Conducting Smart Drawer Coordinate Referencing System (СКП-УП) PL Session.
UF-ATMOSFERA. Closeout Ops
ESA Weekly crew conference
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Power Up
JEMRMS Small Satellite Deployment Observation
VEG-04B Plant Check/Watering for each Plant Pillow
JEMRMS Small Satellite Deployment Observation
Comm reconfig for nominal ops [Aborted]
JEMRMS Small Satellite Deployment Observation
Prep for ЦВМ1 R&R.
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Subject
Cell Biology Experiment Facility Left (CBEF-L) Incubator Unit Insertion
ISS Experience Solid State Drive Changeout
On MCC Go Demating ЦВМ1 J-04 connector.
Ring Sheared Drop Payload Overview
ЦВМ1 R&R.
Inspection and photography of ISS RS windows: No.1, No.12 in SM
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review
On MCC Go Mating ЦВМ1 J-04 connector.
AMS Procedure/video review
ЦВМ1 Replacement Closeout Activities.
Prep for 800А unit R&R  No. 2394921502 на №2394821403 (00073106R, МИМ1_Пол_108)  Battery Module No.8.
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) MWA Preparation
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and measurements. Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) On-Board Training
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Session.
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) MELFI Sample Retrieve
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Stow
Radi-N Detector Retrieval/Readout
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons Hardware Handover
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeter detectors from USOS. Tagup with specialists as necessary
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and measurements. Memory Card pre-pack for return.
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 2 Power On
Food Acceptability Survey
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) Experiment 2 Part 2
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST) MELFI Sample Insertion into a Box Module
Installation of Makita tool battery No.3 for charging
Ultrasound 2 Unit Replace
On MCC Go Urine Transfer from ЕДВ-У to Progress 442 (DC1) Rodnik H2O Tanks 1, 2
Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 2 Power On
Ultrasound 2 Probe Install
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cuff Checklist Print and incorporate
LSG Crew Restraint Installation Subsequent (Primary and Secondary)
Remove Battery No.3 from charge and install Makita drill tool battery No.4 to charge
On-board Training (OBT) Robotics On-board Training (ROBoT) Stow
Ultrasound 2 Probe Remove
In-Flight Maintenance Columbus Hatch Seal Inspection
Actiwatch Plus HRF Rack 2 Setup
Regen Water Container Hose Pregather
Remove Battery No.4 from charge and install Makita drill tool battery No.5 to charge
LSG Work Volume Deploy
Rodent Research Gather-1
Remove Makita tool battery No.5 from charge. Teardown the equipment setup, stow batteries and equipment
Glovebox Freezer – Life Science Glovebox – Setup
Remove and Replace of Water Container Transfer Hose
Payloads Network Attached Storage (NAS) Vent Cleaning
Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Operation Termination
Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Installation
Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Powered Hardware Checkout
IMS Delta File Prep
Telescience Resource Kit Laptop Setup
Actiwatch Plus HRF Rack 2 Stow
High Definition (HD) Config JEM Camera Setup for Crew Choice Event
NutrISS – ESA Nutritional Assessment
Charging EVA Camera D4 Battery

 