
ExtraVehicular (EVA) Status: Due to a late debris notification Monday night, the P1 SASA R&R EVA was deferred today. The USOS crew was provided an uplinked list of activities to work from in lieu of the scheduled timeline. These activities were accelerated from later in the week to accommodate the open time on today’s plan.  Ground teams are currently working to reschedule the EVA on Thursday, December 2nd.
Payloads:
Astrobee:  The crew removed the Perching Arm from right and left Astrobee docking bays.  Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station.  The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Food Acceptability:  A crewmember completed the survey for the Food Acceptability Study.  This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
HRF Veg:  Questionnaires were completed by participating crewmembers.  Pick-and-eat Salad-crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System is a hybrid experiment with plant research, as well as human organoleptic and behavioral research.
Plant Habitat-04:  The Plant Habitat Facility was thoroughly cleaned and flushed.  Microgravity Growth of New Mexico Hatch Green Chile as a Technical Display of Advanced Plant Habitat’s Capabilities (Plant Habitat-04) demonstrates using the Advanced Plant Habitat (APH) by growing peppers in space for the first time. An excellent source of Vitamin C, peppers are more difficult to cultivate than other potential space crops because they take longer to germinate, grow, and develop fruit. The investigation includes microbial analysis to improve understanding of plant-microbe interactions in space and assessment of flavor and texture, which vary based on the growth environment and care such as amount of watering.
Systems: 
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 2 Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Screen Installation:  Today, the crew installed an IMV screen over the Node 2 Starboard Forward IMV Inlet. The fine mesh screen was installed to decrease foreign object debris (FOD) in the Columbus module and ventilation hardware. The original mesh size of the current screen was fine enough to catch larger particles but over time smaller debris can pass through the screen and collect in the ducting downstream of the IMV and cabin fans. Adding the finer mesh screen protects the ventilation hardware from debris build up over time.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew completed routine maintenance to replace the urine receptacle and filter. As part of the R&R, the crew cleaned the WHC power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Filter Remove and Replace (R&R) with Fan Filter Cleaning: This morning the crew replaced the PWD’s Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) water filter. While they had access to this ORU, they also cleaned the exhaust fans outlets on the rear of the PWD. Both the fan cleaning and filter R&R are regularly scheduled preventive maintenance and are required to keep the PWD system functioning nominally.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance:  Today, the ISS crew completed regularly scheduled maintenance which included inspection of the X-rotation dashpots, cycling of the main arm through full range of motion, and applying grease to the ARED rails and rollers. This quarterly maintenance allows the ARED exercise device to keep operating nominally as well as verifying if any wear and tear exists on the hardware.
Completed Task List Activities:

EVA Pistol Grip Battery Removal

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

None

