
Payloads
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM): The Crew transferred data from APM internal SD card to the Space Station Computer (SSC), then removed the APM from Node 3 and installed in Node 2. Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. The Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM) demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-Left (CBEF-L): The Crew completed part one of the CBEF-L configuration change from F to G. This is in preparation for Space Organogenesis. CBEF-L is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard ISS. CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Drop Vibration: The crew continued the frequency scans and science runs for the Drop Vibration experiment. These tests occurred at several different frequencies and on different substrates. Inertial Spreading with Vibration and Water Coalescence (Drop Vibration) examines the behavior of big liquid drops whose perimeter of contact, called the contact line, moves rapidly as the drops change shape either forced by vibration or freely by merger. These motions, fast and small on Earth, become slower and larger in microgravity and so can be more closely observed. Such observations improve the currently limited understanding of contact lines, important in applications such as self-cleaning surfaces, water harvesting devices, anti-frost coatings and the fabrication of semiconductors.
Plant Habitat-02: The Crew performed the Day 27 harvest of the radish plants, and performed photo-documentation then inserted leaf and bulb samples into Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants
Time Perception in Microgravity: Crew performed a TIME PERCEPTION experiment combined session. TIME science recording is performed by the astronaut in a free-floating condition using the application on a laptop. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time perception in microgravity is also fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. The Time Perception in Microgravity experiment quantifies the subjective changes in time perception in humans during and after long-duration exposure to microgravity.
Systems
SpaceX-21 Arrival Preparations: The crew completed On-board Training (OBT) to familiarize themselves with Dragon docking and monitoring tools and the Dragon approach procedure in preparation for SpaceX-21. The crew practiced the docking event using the Dynamic On-board Ubiquitous Graphic (DOUG) model training computer-based training. 
Port Solar Array Mast Imagery: The crew completed a photo-survey of the port solar array masts by capturing a series of images from the Docking Compartment (DC)-1 Port window of the all four port mast structures from tip to base. The ground is working on a plan to quantify and mitigate the risk of solar array mast structural failure due to Micro Meteoroid Orbital Debris (MMOD). Taking these images will provide an outstanding base configuration to compare MMOD strike probability against actuality. 
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): The crew completed Max CEVIS today which is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. The test is performed every 90 days and upon the crew’s arrival and departure from the ISS.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: Today, the crew performed the periodic PEP inspection, which involves utilizing a PEPs matrix and inspecting various emergency provisions such as the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), Quick Don Mask (QDM), and Extension Hose Tee Assemblies at multiple locations throughout the space station. The crew spends several minutes on each item and notes any visible damage. Inspections are performed routinely to ensure the PEPs are in good operational condition.
Completed Task List Activities:

ARED Upper Stop Cable Removal and Replacement
ARED Spreadsheet Completion

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Solar Array Commanding for Survey
Lab MCA Zero Calibration
Secondary Power System Powerup

