
Cygnus Offset Grapple On-Board Training (OBT):  In preparation for Cygnus arrival planned for December 6th, the USOS crew practiced vehicle captures with the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) which was located at the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) High Hover position in preparation for the training. Following the training, the crew participated in a conference with ground teams.
 
Crew Departure Preparation:  Yui continued packing his personal items in preparation for his return to Earth scheduled for December 11th.
 
Microbiome:  For his Return Minus 14 day Microbiome session, Lindgren collected body samples yesterday and today.  He answered survey questionnaires yesterday and Saturday and collected surface samples today.  Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
 
Veggie (Veg-01):  Kelly refilled the Veg-01 plant pillows with water on Saturday.  The Veg-01 investigation is used to assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie facility, focusing on the growth and development of seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the composition of microbial flora on the plants and the facility.  For this run, Zinnias will be grown for 60 days and are expected to produce flowers.
 
Habitability:  Kelly documented his recent observations related to human factors and habitability for the Habitability investigation.  Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations such as near earth asteroids and Mars. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions can help spacecraft designers determine how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly recorded a Sleep Log entry today after waking. The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning:  Yui cleaned his deck CQ including intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

BIOME – questionnaire and sample draw
HRF- sample insertion in MELFI
Tagup with Search and Rescue team specialists for the returning crew
СОЖ Maintenance
CMS ops for harmful contaminant measurements in SМ
“KENTAVR” Sizing
RWS setup
OASIS – Equipment  handover
Video Footage recording for Roscosmos
OASIS – Equipment  handover
BIOME – sample draw
OBT – procedure review for Cygnus rendezvous and birthing
COSMOCARD. Prep, start of daily EKG recording
HRF- sample insertion in MELFI
BIOME – hardware stow
DAN. Experiment Ops
DAN. Assistance with experiment Ops
Flushing B1 connector of RODNIK БВ1 tank of Progress 429 (SM Aft)
Crew Quarters – housekeeping
HABIT – video recording
МАТRESHKA-R. “LULIN-5” data check
BIOME – prep for sweat sample collection
Prep time for return to Earth
HABIT – video voiceover
Video Footage for TV science channel NAUKA 2.0
PE data downlink via ОСА
BIOME – sweat sample collection
HRF- sample insertion in MELFI
Sample collection in GSC container
Packing of personal medical kits
Video Footage for TV science channel NAUKA 2.0
Item prep for return on Soyuz 717
OBT 1 for Cygnus capture
WRS. Liquid waste tank drain
OBT 1 for Cygnus capture
Individual protection gear ИПК-1М R&R in FGB #03(00065633R, ФГБ1ПГО), #04 (00065635R,ФГБ1ПГО_4_410), #07 (00065634R, ФГБ1ПГО_2_229)
OBT- conference on SSRMS run results
CALCIUM. Prep for Experiment session 16
Prep time for return to Earth
US item prep for placing in Soyuz 43S (№717)
IMS update
Item prep for return on Soyuz 717
Evening Work Prep
HRF- hardware prep for urine sample collection
Prep time for return to Earth
BIOME – surface sample collection
Evening Work Prep
HRF- sample insertion in MELFI
BIOME – hardware stowage
Evening Work Prep
RWS deactivation
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ECON-M. Observations and Photography
URAGAN. Observations and Photography
Video Footage for VGTRK TV Network
Personal data prep for return.
Installation of inserts to ease opening of SM interior panel locks (Unstow kit Элементы конструкции (Structural Elements) (004890R), ФГБ1ПГО_4_427_1, СТВ No.1112 (004106J)

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

MSS Powerup
SSRMS ACBM survey
MSS powerdown

 
