
Payloads:
Food Physiology: A diet briefing was attended between the crew and principal investigator team in support of the Food Physiology investigation. The Integrated Impact of Diet on Human Immune Response, the Gut Microbiota, and Nutritional Status During Adaptation to Spaceflight (Food Physiology) experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight.
Fluid Science Laboratory/Soft Matter Dynamics (FSL/SMD) Foam Coarsening: The crew installed the Foam Coarsening #2 Sample Cell Unit 6 inside the SMD Experiment Container (EC). FSL SMD – Hydrodynamics of Wet Foams (Foam Coarsening) aims to investigate bubble size and rearrangement dynamics for “wet foams”. Microgravity offers the opportunity to investigate such “wet” foams, which cannot be stabilized on Earth because of drainage. Moreover, microgravity conditions are essential to study rearrangement phenomena, such as coarsening and coalescence, disentangled from drainage.
ISS Ham: The crew participated in an ISS Ham pass with The British School in the Netherlands (Junior School Leidschenveen). The student body is aged between 4 and 11, and are from 43 different nationalities around the world. Many of the children are multilingual using English as their communicating language in school. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask the crew members 10 to 20 questions.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS):  To prepare for later JWRS operations, the crew began work exchanging gas trap modules and a solenoid valve.  JWRS is a pilot-scale system capable of generating 1 liter per day of potable water from urine. In the past on crewed spacecraft, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard.  For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor.  Demonstration of the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer Mission-23 (NRCSD-23): The NRCSD-23 triple deployer was disassembled and prepared for return on SpX-26. The 5 satellites from NRCSD-23 were deployed successfully in early September and the triple deployer is currently empty. The NRCSD system is an external deployer that is installed in the JEM airlock and robotically placed in the deploy configuration using the JEM Remote Manipulator System (RMS).
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Radio and Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew started by removing the EMU impact shield and radio for access to FPS. Part 1 was then initiated by performing water syringe and vacuum cleaner preparation. Part 2, the crew removed the FPS, inspected, cleaned, and installed the new FPS. After that, the crew reinstalled the EMU radio. Part 3 tasks of priming EMU water pump, hardware dry out, and EMU closeout activities were delayed and rescheduled to tomorrow. The EMU is the space suit currently used by astronauts. It is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmembers to perform an EVA in Earth orbit. The FPS assembly is a component of the Primary Life Support System (PLSS) that provides circulation of the ventilation and cooling fluids for the EMU.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

USOS MPEG Decoder Swap & Testing
Crew Dragon Awake Mode Checkout
TDRS-Spare Outage

