12-06-2012December 06, 2012
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/06/12 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  After wakeup, FE-2 Tarelkin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection and also completed the daily reboot of the Russian RSS1 & RSS2 laptops. FE-1 Novitskiy rebooted the Russian RS1 & RS2 laptops. CDR Ford conducted periodic maintenance on EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) equipment in the US A/L (Airlock), first configuring the ACS (Atmosphere Control & Supply) high pressure O2 system to use O2 from the low pressure O2 tank, then installing EMUs 3005 & 3015 on the EDDAs (EMU Don/Doff Assemblies), performing a feedwater tank recharge on EMU 3015 and configuring both suits for the periodic loop scrub. Afterwards, the oxygen system was reconfigured to nominal.     [This maintenance required setting the EMUs up with their SCUs (Service & Cooling Umbilicals) and initiating the standard one-hour scrubbing process on the EMU’s & A/L’s cooling water loops, filtering ionic and particulate matter (via a 3-micron filter). Then the cooling loops were reconfigured and the ~2hr biocide (iodination) filtering initiated. The activity met the periodic maintenance requirements of the EMUs; no checkout steps were required. Loop scrubbing, incl. iodination of the LCVGs (Liquid Cooling & Ventilation Garments) for biocidal maintenance, is done to eliminate any biomass and particulate matter that may have accumulated in the loops.] Afterwards, Ford checked the EMU ATUs (Audio Terminal Units) for proper functioning to verify that recent rotations of a rack (which feeds ATU fiber optics cabling) for the Airlock RPCM R&R (Remote Power Controller Module removal & replacement) have not impacted ATU functionality. Novitskiy & Tarelkin jointly performed maintenance on the BRI smart switch router (SSR), checking its functioning and cleaning the BRI fan module to ensure nominal operation, supported by ground specialist tagup.     [The BRI fan module consists of 4 individual fans. If one or several of these exhibit malfunction or rotation speed decreases, a combined warning is sent to the DeviceControl application on the RSS1 laptop to generate an emergency message and telemetry signal, “BRI1”. The fan module is an ORU (On-orbit Replaceable Unit).] Evgeny later executed the periodic data dump from the BRI data conversion control log to the RSS1 laptop for downlink to the ground via US OCA (Orbiter Communications Adapter) or Russian high-speed RSPI Data Transmission Radio Link. FE-2 also continued the RS (Russian Segment) outfitting with new low-noise fans, today replacing the TsV2 ventilator in MRM1 Rassvet and the VPkhO ventilator in the SM with the new fans. Before and after the installation, Evgeny was to measure the acoustics without and with the new fans using the SLM (Sound Level Meter). Oleg took on the daily routine job of servicing the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Working from the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, FE-1 also completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). The CDR supported POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center)/Huntsville on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab (loc. S3) by uninstalling & removing the three protective alignment guides from the rack.    [Also re-engaging the snubber pins and locking the safety pins to allow the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be active before begin of ground-commanded CIR operations requiring a microgravity environment.] At ~10:50am, Ford activated the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) routing to downlink the video of his checkout of the NanoRacks Plate Reader device yesterday, stopping it ~5 min later.       [POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center/Huntsville) routed the on-board HRDL (High-Rate Data Line) system.] Afterwards, Kevin replaced the 9V batteries in all four CQs (Crew Quarters) with fresh ones. Oleg Novitskiy conducted the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.     [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.] Evgeny Tarelkin had time set aside for a 30-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop. Later, Kevin performed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of continuing WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes, but this time the report was “no change” to the current card.     [The current new card (32-0028A) lists 17 CWCs (194.35 L total), including 2 empty bag, for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (1 CWC with 15.0 L);  2. Condensate water (2 CWCs with 9.8 L; plus 1 empty bag);  3. Iodinated water (11 CWCs with 167.05 L); 4. Waste water (1 empty CWC), and 5. Special Fluid (OGS) (1 CWC with 2.5 L). Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] Afterwards, Kevin performed periodic maintenance on the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) by cleaning & lubricating its beverage adapter to restore functionality. FE-1 & FE-2 teamed up for another session with the KPT-2 payload suite of BAR science instruments for 2h15m, using the AU-1 Ultrasound Analyzer of the BAR instrument suite to take acoustic readings at locations in the MRM1 Rassvet module and SM PkhO Transfer Compartment, checking for tiny leaks. The systematic measurements are made by placing a microphone at the front part of the object at a distance of 50 cm. Documentary photography was taken with the NIKON D2X camera with SB 800 flash.     [KPT-2 monitors problem areas, necessary to predict shell micro-destruction rate and to develop measures to extend station life. Data are copied to the RSE1 laptop for downlink to Earth via OCA, with photographs, and the activities are supported by ground specialist tagup as required. Objective of the Russian KPT-2/BAR science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Piren-V is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods & means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization. Besides KPT-2 Piren-V, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer / thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times (AU-1 Ultrasound readings can be used for detecting tiny leaks to vacuum).  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.] Wearing “mess-up” mitts, safety goggle & dust mask, Ford worked in Node-3 on the WRS-2 (Water Recovery System) Rack 2, replacing the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly)’s full RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) #2 with a new unit (#1) retrieved from PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) stowage, and temporarily stowed RFTA #2 for subsequent brine draining.  Later, the CDR configured the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) in Node-3 to send urine directly to the UPA, rather than remaining on internal EDV-U container. Kevin also serviced the JSL (Joint Station LAN/Local Area Network) by power-cycling (rebooting) the ISL (Integrated Station LAN) Router in Node-2.  At ~9:10am EST, CDR Ford supported a PAO TV event, responding to questions from two media clients, CBS News (Bill Harwood, Peter King) and CNN’s “Newsroom” (Carol Costello). At ~11:00am, FE-1 Novitskiy & FE-2 Tarelkin downlinked messages of greetings & congratulations for recording at TsUP/Moscow and later replay for (1) the veterans of the Boyevoye Bratstvo (Combat Brotherhood) Association for their 15th anniversary, and (2) to the Lyubertsy Y. A. Gagarin Polytechnic school to its 90th anniversary in December.    [(1) The Russian public veteran civic organization Combat Brotherhood Association, created on December 26, 1997, today is one of the largest and most influential veteran associations in Russia, having managed to consolidate veterans of foreign and Great Patriotic wars, combat operations, Armed Forces, and law enforcement agencies, with a total membership of more than 90,000 people.  (2) Lyubertsy Y. A. Gagarin Polytechnic College was known throughout the years by different names of occupational-technical instruction courses for workers of the Lyubertsy Ukhtomsky plant, trades school No. 10, and vocational technical school No. 10. In 1959 Yuri Gagarin graduated with honors from Lyubertsy trades school No. 10, and in 1969 the state vocational technical school No. 10 was named Yuri Alekseyevich Gagarin.] At ~2:55pm, the CDR powers up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and conducts a ham radio session with students at Kline School, Costa Mesa, CA. The three crewmembers worked out on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1). Tasks listed for Evgeny & Oleg on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –More preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),Downlinking the noise level data from today’s and yesterday’s acoustic measurements in the SM,A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens and PI emission platform using the SKPF-U  to record target sites on the Earth surface, andA ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop. WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (32-0028B) lists 19 CWCs (283.35 L total), including 2 empty bags, for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (3 CWCs with 105.9 L);  2. Condensate water (2 CWCs with 9.8 L; plus 1 empty bag);  3. Iodinated water (11 CWCs with 165.15 L); 4. Waste water (1 empty CWC), and 5. Special Fluid (OGS) (1 CWC with 2.5 L). Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Canberra, Australia (World Capitals Collection: Clear weather conditions were expected during this pass over Canberra. Overlapping frames of the metropolitan and surrounding rural area were requested to provide context for higher resolution imagery), and Pilcomayo River Fan, ARG-PRY (Exploration Initiative Sites – Megafans Collection: ISS had an excellent, fair-weather pass in mid-morning light with best views of this target from nadir to left of track. As ISS tracked SE across the Andes, the crew was to begin looking for this large river and fan on the eastern side. Despite strong flow, all water and sediment from the Pilcomayo River is deposited on the fan, with none exiting to the regional river [Parana River]. This retention of all discharge on land [with none reaching the ocean] may be the result of a recent tectonic down-warp producing a depression in the middle of the target area. Documenting this area with overlapping mapping strips from left to right). 