
Payloads:
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): A BCM research session consisting of a set of 12 runs/tests was performed. The Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (BCM) experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight, and evaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the original activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crew members to complete either individual or crew telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember who has spent months in weightlessness can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
Biological Research In Canisters-26 (BRIC-26): As a continuation of the experiment, several of the BRIC-26 experiment canisters were removed from the facility and inserted into -80° C cold stowage. Previous research shows that exposure to microgravity affects microbial characteristics such as virulence and environmental resistance, but the molecular mechanisms underlying these changes are unclear. BRIC-26 measures the effect of exposure to microgravity on three fundamental genetic processes and their interactions in the bacteria Bacillus subtilis. Results could provide insight into how the interaction of DNA and environment affects gene expression and, ultimately, the observable characteristics in an organism.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (CIR/SoFIE): The crew gained access to the CIR facility and exchanged several leaky solenoid valves. This is one of the component replacements needed to get the CIR/SoFIE system ready to support science operations. The CIR facility includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the CIR that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies.
NanoRacks Module-83: NanoRacks Module-83 was installed into NanoRacks Mainframe Alpha.  Module-83 is a simple Plug-n-Play tech demo to test the usability of SpaceChains multi-signature security system as well as reliability of GOMSpace boards within the ISS environment. SpaceChain 2.0 validates the hardware and software needed for blockchain transactions between hardware on the ground and the space station. Relaying transactions to the space station protects them from physical attack, while multi-signature technology and secure satellite transmission provide more security from cyberattacks. The investigation also actively explores what types of space payloads could use blockchain.
Particle Vibration: The crew located and shook the cell array bags to prevent the experiment particles from sticking to the container walls. The thermo-vibrational-driven Particle self-Assembly and Ordering mechanisms in Low grAvity (PAOLA) project aims to investigate the self-organization mechanisms of particles in fluids. The outcomes of the project have various implications in the science of materials (development of novel manufacturing techniques) and astrophysics (understanding of the mechanisms responsible for the formation of asteroids and planets).
Suture in Space (SiS): The crew removed the second and final set of the SiS Experiment Containers (ECs) from the Biolab facility and installed reference ECs in their place. Although some studies have demonstrated that first aid and surgical procedures are feasible in space, suture behavior and wound healing mechanisms in weightlessness are poorly known. Wound Healing and Sutures in Unloading Conditions (SiS) investigates the behavior of sutured wounds and the mechanisms of tissue repair/regeneration in microgravity. Studying the complex models, and the hardware developed to perform this experiment on the ISS, allows for researchers to measure mechanical forces at the wound site, monitor the wound closure, and study the mechanisms involved in tissue repair.
Systems: 
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3009 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove and Replace (R&R) Activities: Today, the crew gathered EVA and In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) tools for configuration/staging of tools and hardware in preparation for the R&R. The crew then studied a package of references and procedures on how to successfully perform the R&R. Finally, the crew and ground teams held a procedure review conference to finalize operations for the R&R that is scheduled tomorrow. The FPS is a component of the Primary Life Support Subsystem (PLSS) that provides circulation of the ventilation and cooling fluids for the EMU.
SpaceX Crew Dragon Onboard Trainings (OBTs): The crew completed reviews of the SpX Crew Dragon emergency departure, SpX Crew Dragon free-flight depress response, and SpX Crew Dragon free-flight fire response training materials. This is important and done as a refresher for the crew in the event of a SpX Crew Dragon emergency scenario.
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew verified that the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Extension Hose Tee Kit, the Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) [a PBA consists of a Quick Don Mask (QDM) Assembly connected to a PBA Oxygen Reducer/Cylinder Assembly], and Pre-Breathe Mask are all free of damage. These inspections are crucial to ensure functionality in the event of an emergency scenario.
Ultrasound Scan: Today, the Crew Medical Officer (CMO) operated the ultrasound device to perform a Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) scan of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for bilateral imaging of the internal jugular, entire subclavian-axillary axis and lower extremity deep veins. 
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

HRF2 Signal Analogue Downlink
EVA FPS R&R Procedure Review Conference
CIR Solenoid Valve Replace
HRF2 Rack Commanding

