
Ocular Health:  Crewmembers Yui and Lindgren completed vision tests, tonometry tests, and blood pressure measurements as part of their Flight Day 120 Ocular Health testing.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risks of microgravity-induced visual impairment and increased intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Cognition:  Yui  performed his Return minus 10 day session of the Cognition experiment later today.  The Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) investigation is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software used allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Window Observation Research Facility (WORF) Laptop Software Load:  Kelly supported the ongoing software updates to payload laptops by copying a software load to the WORF laptop.  These software updates include enhanced security with the Windows 7 operating system, new features and support for new capabilities.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly recorded a Sleep Log entry today after waking.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Service Module (SM) Water Sample Collection:  Kelly obtained samples from Service Module potable water dispensers today.  Some of the samples will undergo microbial analysis onboard ISS and others will be prepared for return to the ground for post-flight analysis.
 
Soyuz 43 (43S) Prepack Transfer Operations:  Lindgren prepared and transferred US cargo that will be returning to the ground via 43S on December 11th.
 
Cygnus Attached Phase Training:  Kelly and Lindgren conducted onboard training in order to familiarize themselves with Cygnus hardware, stowage, and attached phase vehicle configuration.
 
Crew Departure Preparation:  Yui  continued to pack his personal items in preparation for his crews return to earth onboard 43S.
 
Today’s Planned Activities   
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HRF – Sample collection and stowage
Calf Volume Measurement
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Urine Sample Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
On MCC Go Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Downlink data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (start)
Soyuz 717 Prepack Ops
Eye Exam (Ocular Health) – Vision Test
Collecting condensate water samples from СРВ-К2М before Gas-Liquid Mixture Filter (ФГС) into Russian Samplers – start
Eye Exam (Ocular Health) – VIS Questionnaire
Scheduled Maintenance of Compound Specific Analyzer- Combustion Products (CSA-CP)
Study of veins in lower extremities
Eye Exam (Ocular Health) – Vision Test
ER1 – Software Installation
Potable Water Collection in SM for In-Flight Chemical and Microbial Analysis
JAXA Video Conference Preparation
Eye Exam (Ocular Health) – VIS Questionnaire
JAXA Video Conference Preparation
HRF Urine Sample Collection
Filling (separation) EDV-SV No.1209 (00067500R, ФГБ1ПГО_1_108).  For separation use EDV No.1192 (00065120R, ФГБ1ПГО_1_107)
JAXA Video Conference
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Ocular Health (OH) Blood Pressure Operations
В3 Fan Screen Cleaning in MRM2
СОЖ Maintenance
JAXA – Deactivation of Video Camera
Ocular Health (OH) Blood Pressure Operations
Ocular Health (OH) – Tonometry Test Configuration
Eye Exam (Ocular Health) – Tonometry Test
ER1 – Computer Software Load
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops
WRS Sample Collection
Vacuum Cleaning of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in MRM2
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Eye Exam (Ocular Health) – Stow Tonometry Hardware
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops
Prepack US items to be loaded inti Soyuz 717 (43S)
TOCA Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
PCS Relocation
Assisting with LBNP Exercise
LBNP Exercise
HRF Urine Sample Collection
PAO Hardware Setup
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Blood Collection Hardware Setup
Personal Medication Stowage
JRNL – Journal Entry [Deferred]
JEM Terminal Computer Reboot
Cygnus Ops Review
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Download data from Control and Data Acquisition Module (МКСД) HDD (end) and start backup
EDV Transfers from US to Russian stowage areas
JAXA. Video Conference Preparation
Tightening of Progress 429 (Aft) QD Screw Clamps
JAXA. Video Ops
HRF Urine Sample Collection
TORU Test with Docked Progress 429 (SM Aft)
Video Footage for Roscosmos TV Studio
JAXA. Post Video Conference Closeout Ops
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Study of veins in lower extremities
Crew Departure Prep
Video Footage of Greetings
TOCA Data Recording
Water Processing using MCD
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
IMS Delta File Prep
INTERACTION-2. Running Experiment Session
IDENTIFICATION. Copy ИМУ-Ц micro-accelerometer data to laptop
ER1 – Hardware Removal
COGNITION – Experiment Ops and Filling Questionnaire
On MCC Go Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Absorption Cartridge (end)
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ECON-M. Observations and Photography
Video Recording for All-Russia State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company (ВГТРК)
Installation of inserts to ease opening of SM interior panel locks
Personal Data Prep for Return

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal System Commanding

 
