12-06-2010December 06, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/06/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       Underway: Week 2 of Increment 26.  At day’s begin, FE-2 Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Oleg will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  CDR Kelly undertook his 8th weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.   His required ~10h fast started last night.      [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.]   Kelly also started another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.      [This was the 7th session with the new GC/DMS unit #1002, after the previous instrument (#1004) was used for approximately 40 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]  Skripochka had ~90 min for more cargo unloading from Progress 40P, docked at DC-1 Nadir, and IMS (Inventory Management System)-guided transfer to ISS storage locations.  Kaleri meanwhile transferred the equipment of the new Russian GFI-17 “Molniya” FOTON-GAMMA experiment from 40P and set it up in the SM (Service Module).  Next, Alex & Oleg joined up for several hours to install & connect the inboard part of the GFI-17 hardware.  Documentary photography was part of the activity, as always.     [Installed, on panel 310, were two boxes – a stand-alone temperature control box (MAKT) and a data control & monitoring unit (MKSD) –, which were then connected to each other, to the onboard Ethernet network and the BITS2-12 measurement telemetry system.  The latter was then reactivated.  The external BVD sensor box for GFI-17 will be installed during the Orlan EVA-27 in January.  The Molniya-Gamma space experiment is designed to study gamma and optical bursts during thunderstorm activity.]  Later, Skripochka monitored the reactivation of the Russian Elektron O2 (oxygen) generator) by ground commanding, checking the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.      [Temperature is checked twice, about 3-4 minutes apart, with the MultiMeter with temperature probe.  The standard manual check is required because the gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H2) in the O2 line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.  Elektron had to be turned off while the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system & VD-SU control mode were temporarily deactivated for the GFI-17 outfitting.]  Scott Kelly checked out the Node-1 nadir port area for remaining CBCS (Centerline Berthing Camera System) components, for returning them to stowage to await later installation for Mission ULF5 (NET February 2011).  Also due to the delay of STS-133/ULF5, Scott re-latched the Node-1 nadir hatch mechanism which had been set to Unlatch on 10/29 in preparation for PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) berthing.  Later in the day, the CDR downloaded data from Shannon’s & Wheels’ stowed SLEEP AWs (Actiwatches) as well as his own, which he then initialized for continued data collection.    [Fresh lithium batteries were not required at this time.  To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight) session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]  Working in Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Scott performed regular service on the JAXA MI IPA (Marangoni Inside / Image Processing Unit) by removing & replacing 5 HDs (Hard Disks) of the VRU (Video Recording Unit),- #1071, #1072, #1073, #1074, #1075.      [The replaced VRU disks (#1060, #1061, #1062, #1063, #1064) were put in a Ziploc bag for return to SSIPC (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center/Tsukuba).]  Scott also had ~3h45m for major IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) at Lab loc. S3, aimed at re-aligning the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System).    [The PaRIS snubber pins appear to have loosened during operation.  Scott’s procedure adjusted the PaRIS Snubber pins and cups, torqued the jam nuts, verified that there was no Rack motion and re-installed the alignment guides and microgravity rack barrier, followed by closeout.]  In MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2) Poisk, Oleg checked on the efficiency of the module’s ventilation system by taking pictures of instrument sealing “aprons” in interface panels 401, 402 & 102 from the side of the Progress hatch transfer tunnel.  FE-2 also undertook the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors/meters in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways, skipping the Soyuz hatch.   [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PrK–Progress, PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment) – RO, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]  Oleg did the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Skripochka also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR), and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded today.  