
Biochemical Profile:  Lindgren continued his Return minus 14 (R-14) blood and urine collections and Yui his R-14 saliva collection for the Biochem Profile investigation.  Samples were stowed in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a later flight. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
 
Ocular Health:  Lindgren and Yui continued their Flight Day 120 Ocular Health activities by performing their Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and fundoscopy, with Kelly acting as the Crew Medical Officer.  OCT is used to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer, and the fundoscope is used to obtain images of the retinal surface.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Veggie (Veg-01):  Lindgren refilled the Veg-01 plant pillows with water.  The Veg-01 investigation is used to assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie facility, focusing on the growth and development of seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the composition of microbial flora on the plants and the facility.  For this run, Zinnias will be grown for 60 days and are expected to produce flowers.
 
Twins Study:  In support of the Twins Study, Kelly completed his Flight Day 240 saliva collection, stowing samples in a MELFI.  This investigation is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of them experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body that are important in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
EXPRESS (EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station) Rack 3 Laptop Software Load:  Kelly supported the ongoing software updates to ISS EXPRESS Rack laptops by copying a software load to the EXPRESS Rack 3 laptop.  These software updates include enhanced security with the Windows 7 operating system, new features and support for new capabilities.
 
Sleep Log:  Kelly recorded a Sleep Log entry today after waking.  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Habitability:  Today Kelly documented his recent observations related to human factors and habitability for the Habitability investigation.  Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as near earth asteroids and Mars. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions can help spacecraft designers determine how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Mid-Increment Debrief Questionnaires:  As part of Kelly’s half way point into his yearlong mission onboard ISS, he answered questions from Logistics & Maintenance and Medical Operations questionnaires.  The answers will then be downlinked to the ground in order to assist ground teams and future crews.
 
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout:  In preparation for Cygnus berthing on Sunday December 6th, Yui  installed the CBCS System onto the Node 1 Nadir Hatch.  Following the installation Yui worked with ground teams in order to successfully checkout the system.  The checkout involved routing the video from the camera to the Cupola Robotics Work Station (RWS) monitors and the ground.  Video from the CBCS is used to aid the crew during Visiting Vehicle mating operations.
 
Crew Departure Preparation:  Yui continued to pack his personal items in preparation for his crews return to earth onboard Soyuz 43 (43S) on December 11th. The items will be returning by way of 43S, SpaceX-8, and SpaceX-9.
 
Sokol Suit Leak Check:  This morning the 43S crew performed a nominal Sokol suit leak check.  Prior to the leak check, they reported a light “burning” odor in the 43 Soyuz, later classified as a “plastic” odor coming from one of the panels.  Compound Specific Analyzer – Combustion Products (CSA-CP) readings were zero.  Russian specialists are investigating.
 
Kurs Loopback Test:   Today MCC-M performed a test of the FGB KURS-P with the 43S Kurs-A.  FGB Kurs semi-set 1 passed the test, but semi-set 2 was not successful.  Further testing has been deferred pending investigation by Russian specialists.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

HRF Urine Sample Collection
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Blood Sample Collection and Cold Stowage
Eye Exam (Ocular Health) – OCT Setup
HRF Refrigerated Centrifuge Configuration
ER3 –  Laptop Gateway IP Configuration
On MCC GO Regeneration of БМП Ф2 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
ER1 – Software Installation
HRF – Blood Sample Collection Closeout Ops
VIBROLAB. Monitoring hardware activation
Soyuz 717 Samsung tablet charge – start
HRF – MELFI Sample Insertion
Collecting condensate water samples  [КАВ] from [СРВ-К2М] up to Gas-Liquid Mixture Filter (ФГС) to Russian Samplers – end
Eye Exam (Ocular Health) – OCT Exam
Soyuz 717 Stowage Ops
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops
Collecting condensate water samples [КАВ] up to СРВ-К2М БКО – equipment setup, sampler installation
ER1 – Closeout Ops
CARDIOVECTOR. Photography of the Experiment Ops
BIOME – Survey Questionnaire Completion
HRF Urine Collection Hardware Setup
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
ER1 – Computer Software Load
Soyuz 718 Samsung tablet charge – start
WRS Water Sample Analysis
Eye Exam (Ocular Health) – OCT Exam
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops
HAM radio session from Columbus
JAXA Video Recording. Part 8
Perform Quick Don Mask Assembly (QDMA) maintenance on spare QDMAs that were not performed in last PEPS audit
Eye Exam (Ocular Health) – OCT Equipment Stowage
Charging Soyuz 717 Samsung tablet – end
Sampling condensate water [КАВ] upstream of [СРВ-К2М] БКО – sampler replacement
Mid-point mission debrief – Part 3
Soyuz 717 Sokol Suit Leak Check
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
Cleaning vent screens on FGB interior panels  (panels 116, 316, 231, 431)
Drying Sokol suits – setting up suits 1 and 2 (Soyuz 717) for drying
RSS1 Laptop “Monitor БЗУ-М” Software Upgrade.
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) – Equipment Gathering
COSMOCARD. Setup. Starting 24-hr ECG Recording
TOCA Data Recording
Charging Soyuz 718 Samsung tablet – end
TOCA Waste Water Bag (WWB) Changeout
VEG-01 – Refilling Root Mat with Water
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill [Aborted]
Cygnus Cargo Operations Review
СОЖ Maintenance
VIZIR. Experiment Ops. Tagup with specialists
Preventive maintenance of MRM1 АСП-О Hatch Sealing Mechanism and Soyuz 717 hatch
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout
Termination of Suit 1, 2 Drying (ТК 717)
Start suit 3 drying and set up the 1st pair of gloves for drying (ТК 717)
Sampling condensate water [КАВ] upstream of СРВК-2М БКО – removing sampler, equipment disassembly
Crew Departure Prep
БРП-М water sampling to drink bags
PAO Event
Terminate drying the first pair of gloves and start drying the second pair (ТК 717)
Cleaning of TVS LIV voltage converter vent grille
ОВТ – Computer Based Training (OBT) – Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
EXPOSE-R. Copy and Downlink Data
TWIN – Saliva Collection Hardware Setup
Ventilation grille cleaning on FGB interior panels (panels 201, 301, 401)
Terminate drying the second pair of gloves (ТК 717)
ER1 – Hardware Removal
VIBROLAB. Copy and Downlink Data
HRF – Hardware Setup
Habitability Overview Video Recording, Setup
SPRINT – Discretionary Exercise
Evening Work Prep
Nikon Still Camera Battery Charging
HRF – Equipment stowage after sample collection
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
Eye Imaging (Ocular Health) – Fundoscope Setup
Terminate the 3rd suit drying, start drying the 3rd pair of gloves (ТК 717)
Eye Imaging (Ocular Health) – Prep for Fundoscope Ops
Habitability Overview Video Recording, Terminate
Eye Imaging (Ocular Health)
Terminate drying the third pair of gloves (ТК 717)
INTERACTION-2. Experiment Ops
Suit and Glove Stowage after Drying (ТК 717)
Eye Imaging (Ocular Health) – Fundoscope Ops
Generic Urine Collection
On MCC Go Regenegation of Micropurification unit (БМП) Filter 2 cartridge (end)
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ECON-M. Observations and Photography
Video Recording for All-Russia State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company (ВГТРК)
Installation of inserts to ease opening of SM interior panel latches (Unstow Элементы конструкции (Structural Elements) kit (004890R), ФГБ1ПГО_4_427_1, СТВ No.1112 (004106J)
IMS Delta File Prep
Personal Data Prep for Return

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

CBCS Checkout

 
