
Circadian Rhythms: A 52S crewmember removed and stowed the Double Sensors and Thermolab Unit equipment that was used to complete a 36-hour Circadian Rhythms session that began on Wednesday. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers. 
Multi-Omics Sample Collections: A 52S crewmember conducted saliva sample collections for the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Multi-Omics experiment. The samples were then placed into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Multi-omics analysis of human microbial-metabolic cross-talk in the space ecosystem (Multi-Omics) investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function, by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the gut microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Camera Robot: The crew performed the 5th JEM Camera Robot checkout activity using a sponge ball. This device is a free-flying camera robot that provides real time video downlink and photographs. It is expected to reduce the crew time requirements to support video recording of activities, especially at the blind spot of existing JEM internal cameras.  
NanoRacks-DreamUp Xtronaut Microbe (DreamXM) Operations: Today the crew completed the last day of NanoRacks DreamXM operations by taking the final set of photos to track the progression of the experiment. NanoRacks DreamXM was initiated two weeks ago on GMT 320, when the crew used cotton swabs to sample locations and inoculate several petri dishes.  Photos were taken of each Petri Dish as a baseline data point. Kits containing nearly identical materials were provided to students to perform a duplicate ground experiment. NanoRacks(DreamXM) teaches students the different microbial growths from a home-school setting and those in microgravity using near-identical flight kits flown and operated in the International Space Station (ISS). With access to an online portal, students swab away, paralleling the procedures of crewmembers and comparing results with online videos and datasets. The investigation aims to promote science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields to the next generation of students. 
Zero Boil-Off Tank (ZBOT) Removal and Stow: After successfully completing a ten-week experiment run, today the crew removed the ZBOT hardware from the MSG work volume.  Rocket fuel, spacecraft heating and cooling systems, and sensitive scientific instruments rely on very cold cryogenic fluids. Heat from the environment around cryogenic tanks can cause their pressures to rise, which requires dumping or “boiling off” fluid to release the excess pressure, or actively cooling the tanks in some way. ZBOT uses an experimental fluid to test active heat removal and forced jet mixing as alternative means for controlling tank pressure for volatile fluids.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N) Retrieval:  Today a USOS crewmember retrieved all 8 of the Space Bubble Detectors that were deployed last week for the RaDI-N experiment, and handed them to a Russian crewmember to be processed in the Bubble Reader. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) RaDI-N investigation measures neutron radiation levels while onboard the ISS.  Bubble detectors are used as neutron monitors designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Space Headaches: The crew completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Earth Imagery from ISS Target Operations: The crew captured images and footage of Japan and the India-Himalayas-Tibetan Plateau. The Earth Imagery from ISS investigation creates a series of videos, showcasing Earth from space. These videos will be taken with cameras on the International Space Station in 6K hi-resolution, then integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement.
Sabatier Return Preparation:  The crew installed the Sabatier Assembly into Flight Support Equipment (FSE), and then packed it in specially cut foam for return and refurbishment.  Sabatier is planned for return to the ground on SpaceX-13 in January. 
Dragon Robotics On-Board Trainer (ROBoT) Self Study:  In preparation for SpX-13 capture and berthing, the crew completed a self-study session on the ROBoT. They practiced malfunction responses, nominal rate approaches, and 2-meter approaches. 
Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator (MERLIN)-1 Status – Early Thursday morning, MERLIN-1 lost heath and status and Ethernet communication. The MERLIN unit was in a continuous reboot cycle.  The MERLIN coolers stayed on during the duration of the anomaly. Later in the day, MERLIN-1 was recovered nominally following a power cycle.  MERLIN-1 is located in the NODE1 Galley Rack and is utilized for food refrigeration, not for science. 
Permanent Multi-Purpose Module (PMM) General Luminaire Assembly (GLA) 7 Anomaly –
Yesterday the PMM Power Distribution Box (PDB) Remote Power Controller (RPC) 8 showed a steady increase in current from 0.23 amp to 0.39 amp. The crew reported the LHA was flickering with some noise. The RPC was preemptively commanded open. Historically, there have been similar signatures for GLAs in both MPLM and PMM; this signature indicates the imminent failure of the Light Housing Assembly (LHA). The LHA will be replaced with an on-orbit spare.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.


IMS Update
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Pre-pack cargo items for return or disposal on Soyuz 736
Taking measurements on SM interior panels
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
URAGAN. Observation and photography
ECON-M. Observation and photography
HRF Generic Urine Collection
Multi Omics Saliva Operations
MORZE. Evaluation using SPRUT-2.
Multi Omics Saliva sample MELFI Insertion
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
Multi Omics Saliva Stow
Multi Omics Question
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: Tsentrovka, SENSOR Tests
Acoustic Monitor Data Transfer and Stow
Robotics Onboard Training (ROBoT) Session for Dragon
Circadian Rhythms Deinstrumentation with Armband
Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
Long Duration Sorbent Testbed Locker Removal.
Collecting surface samples from FGB equipment and structures
Circadian Rhythms Downlink
Crew relocates Single Stowage Locker
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Subject
JEM Camera Robot Checkout 5
MORZE. Psycho-physiological Evaluation: SUPOS Test
Circadian Rhythms Armband Stow
HRF Generic Urine Collection Stow
Zero Boil-Off Tank Hardware Stow
DAN. Experiment Session – Operator
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Sabatier Prep for Return
JEM MSPR ELT Relocate for FROST2 Temperature Monitor
MATRYOSHKA-R. TRITEL hardware clock sync
LBNP Training (PRELIMINARY) – Operator
Zero Boil-Off Tank Hardware Stow
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and measurements
СОЖ Maintenance
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Max Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable PFS Partial Stow
ISS Crew departure preparation
Zero Boil-Off Tank Hardware Stow
Radi-N Detector Retrieval/Readout
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons Hardware Handover
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeters from USOS
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Sabatier Hardware Restow
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter gathering and measurements
T2 Crew Handover
Power Cycle the N2 AVN443 High Definition (HD) Encoder
Collecting surface samples from FGB equipment and structures
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations
Robotics Onboard Training (ROBoT) Session for Dragon
Pre-pack cargo items for return or disposal on Soyuz 736
Cygnus Cargo Operations Conference
Photo TV Soyuz Imagery
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
NanoRacks Microbial Growth Final Ops
Post-Exercise Hygiene Procedure
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire

Completed Task List Activities

Plug-In-Plan Node 2audit
Plug-In-Plan Node 3audit 

Ground Activities
All activities are on schedule unless otherwise noted.


Dragon ROBoT Support
SPDM OTCM Checkout
AVN443 Firmware Loading
ACS N2 Leak Check

