
Microbiome:  Cristoforetti completed survey questions, set up for the body surface and perspiration sampling operation, and performed the body sample collection throughout the day.  Wilmore collected surface samples from inside ISS.  The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). To monitor the status of the crewmembers’ microbiome and immune system and their interaction with the unique environment of the ISS, periodic samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment are taken.
3D Printing in Zero-G:  Cristoforetti removed and stowed a 3D printed coupon. The 3D printing in Zero–G technology demonstration experiment aims to validate extrusion-based additive manufacturing technology’s ability to function in a micro-gravity environment.
Cognition:  Acting as the Cognition test operations subject, Virts powered on Human Research Facility (HRF) laptop, launched the Cognition application, and completed pre-test questions and an array of cognitive tests with performance feedback. Cognition is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results.
Aniso Tubule:  Virts injected water into an Aniso sample chamber and stowed the sample chamber into MELFI cold stowage.  Experimenters will examine growth modifications of Arabidopsis hypocotyls and the changing orientation of cortical microtubule under microgravity conditions in space. Scientists will further observe changes in dynamics of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins by observing Arabidopsis hypocotyls and microtubule-associated proteins with a fluorescence microscope.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR):  Wilmore replaced a manifold bottle in the CIR Rack.  This is in preparation for continuing the Flame Extinguishment Experiment-2 (FLEX-2) operations.   FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
GLACIER:  Wilmore replaced the desiccant packs in the General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) in preparation for SpaceX-5.  Desiccant kits are used with cold stowage to collect moisture.
Body Measure:  Cristoforetti set up equipment and took body measurements.  This study will involve collecting anthropometric data (body measurements) using digital still and video imagery and a tape measure to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments from astronauts for pre-, post-, and in-flight conditions.
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE):  Wilmore reviewed overview materials and then mixed the ACE samples using a magnetic stir bar in preparation for ACE M-3 runs scheduled for next week.  The Crew then configured the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) for the next ACE science runs, removed Preliminary Advanced Colloids Experiment Target and placed wipes and oil dispensers inside LMM Auxiliary Fluids Container. The crew installed the sample and then dispensed oil onto the sample.  In the ACE-M-3 investigation, a model colloidal system is used to observe the microscopic behavior of liquids and gases separating from each other, near the critical point, via a process called spinodal decomposition. Previous ISS experiments observed the macroscopic behavior for weeks of slow separation, while this experiment looks at the level of individual particles, with the aid of a new microscope that allows observation of the behavior at short times. The ISS is a unique environment for these experiments, as liquids and gases of the same material almost invariably have different densities, and the lack of gravity prevents sedimentation.
Plate Reader:  Virts reviewed Nanoracks Plate Reader Onboard Training materials.  This was in preparation for the Nanoracks Module-27 scans scheduled for next week.
SpaceX-5 Prepack:  Wilmore and Virts have started packing and staging items that are scheduled for return on SpaceX-5. SpaceX-5 is scheduled to launch on December 16th then berth with ISS on the 18th.
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Status:  Following this week’s Node 3 CDRA bed cleaning, ground teams have successfully activated and checked out the system.  The Lab CDRA, which had been operating all week has been deactivated.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Calf Volume Measurement
HRF Urine Sample Collection & MELFI Insertion
BIOME – Survey Completion
SM Power Supply System Feeder Test: Switching current probe
HRF – Urine Sample Insertion Into MELFI
ISS Crew Weekly Conference with ГОГУ Management Team
VIZIR. Battery Charge
IFM Node 3 PEPS relocation
DECLIC HTI, instrument & locker removal
IMAX GMT reset
Dragon prepack
GLACIER 2 & 4 dessicant swaps
ACE sample mix and setup
Nanoracks USB insert
Opening СНТ pit
ESA Monthly Flight Management Conference
СТТС Configuration for MRM1
KHIMIYA OBRAZOVANIYE. Preparation Steps
SM Power Supply System Feeder Test: Switching/Disconnecting current probes
Filling RGN Recycle Tank
Removal of СНТ-50МП А22
KHIMIYA OBRAZOVANIYE. Sfera-F Session Ops
EXPANDER Exercise
PROBOY. Document review and equipment gathering
3DP – Printed Coupon Removal and Stowage
Comm reconfig for nominal ops
IFM – Teardown of Measurement configuration using 1- and 2-channel USB oscilloscope, hardware stowage
SM Power Supply System Feeder Test: Disconnecting SSC Laptop from SM onboard outlet
URAGAN. Observation and Photography using VSS
Installation of СНТ from spares No. 93040013 in СНТ-50МП А22 location
IDENTIFIKATSIYA. Copy ИМУ-Ц Micro-Accelerometer Data to HDD for return
VIZIR. Experiment Ops. (as necessary)
CDRA Replacement in Node 3
Filling RGN Recycle Tank
Mating СНТ А22 telemetry connector to БИТС2-12)
Installation of СНТ from spares No. 93040013 in СНТ-50МП А22 location
Installation of БД-2 at nominal location
BIOME – Sampling Setup
IDENTIFIKATSIYA. Copy ИМУ-Ц Micro-Accelerometer Data to HDD for return
ANISO – Sample Setup & insertion into MELFI
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Bottle Replacement
ANISO – Ziploc bag insertion into MELFI
BIOME – Sample Collection
GLACIER2 – Velcro Removal and Battery Swap
GLACIER4 – Velcro removal and switching power off
Rodent Research (RR) – Equipment stowage
BIOME – Sample Collection & Stowage
Reconfiguration SSC22
HRF – Urine Sample Insertion Into MELFI
COGN – Hardware power on and starting test ops

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Node 3 CDRA Checkout

