
Microbiome: Cristoforetti collected saliva and completed a questionnaire survey in support of the Microbiome investigation. The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
3D Printing in Zero-G:  Cristoforetti removed and stowed two 3D printed coupons today.  The 3D printing in Zero–G technology demonstration experiment aims to validate extrusion-based additive manufacturing technology’s ability to function in a micro-gravity environment.
Skin-B:  Cristoforetti conducted her first Skin-B data collection using the Tewameter probe to measure the skin barrier function; the Visioscan Camera to measure skin surface topography; and the Corneometer probe to measure skin hydration. The Skin-B experiment will improve understanding of skin aging, which is slow on Earth but very much accelerated in space. This will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general. The data could help in determining impact on astronauts on future missions to the Moon and Mars for example where environmental conditions are more challenging.
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Status:  Virts and Wilmore performed troubleshooting on the CDRA front bed air leak, which was observed yesterday after the bed was cleaned and reassembled. An O-ring gasket in the front bed was found to be pinched and was subsequently replaced. Once the seal was replaced, the bed was reassembled, installed in the rack and Ground teams activated the hardware and began a gross leak check.  A 24 hour fine leak check will be performed overnight.  The crew was ahead of the timeline today and completed all the CDRA activities that were on the timeline for tomorrow.
Service Module Voltage/Current Stabilizer [CHT] Testing:  Samokutyaev continued testing of the Service Module CHTs.  The goal of CHT testing is to assess their performance by capturing high speed 2 channel oscilloscope electrical current data at the input (ISS Primary Power 151-160VDC) and output (28VDC) of each CHT simultaneously over a 4 day period, while forcing them into different modes, “Current Regulation” and “Voltage Regulation”.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


HRF Urine Sample Collection & MELFI Insertion
CDRA – Removal and Cleaning Aerosol Filters in Node 3
24-hour Holter monitoring (terminate)
IFM – Battery replacement in current probes and equipment relocation
SM Power Supply System Feeder Test: Switching scope meters
BRI Control Log Dump from RSS1.
Study of veins in lower extremities
VIZIR. Battery Charge
СТТС Configuration for MRM1
BIOME – Survey Completion
3DP – Printed Coupon Removal and Stowage
KHIMIYA OBRAZOVANIYE. Sfera-S Session
On-orbit Hearing Assessment using EARQ
SM Power Supply System Feeder Test: Deactivation of current probe and temporary stowage
Removal of СНТ-50МП А22
JEM Mesh Cover-Return Grille Cleaning
PAO Event
Comm reconfig for nominal ops
VIZIR. Battery Charge
Study of veins in lower extremities
SKNB -Hardware Setup
Installation of СНТ S/N 93040017 in СНТ-50МП А22 location
Mating СНТ А22 telemetry connector to БИТС2-12
Installation of СНТ S/N 93040017 in СНТ-50М A22 location (end)
CDRA – Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Bed Filter R&R
WHC Fill
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter initialization and deployment for exposure
SM Power Supply System Feeder Test: Switching current probe
Mated flight comm test using ТК 714 and ТПК 715 comm assets
Replacement of urine receptacle (МП) and filter-insert (Ф-В) in the toilet [АСУ]
SM Ventilation System Preventive Maintenance. Group В1
Node 3 CDRA – Leak check
3D Printing in Zero-G: Coupon Removal and Stowage
HMS Defibrillator Inspection
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Node 3 CDRA – Insulation Replacement
ARED Flywheel Cylinder Evacuation

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Support for CDRA bed work
Support for CHT Testing
3D Printing

