
Payloads
NanoRacks Module-9: The crew performed activation of eleven mixture tubes for the Module-09 experiment containing numerous experiment projects. NanoRacks Module-09 is a combination of 35 experiments provided by school students from 5 different countries. The experiments are housed within a NanoRacks Module container and is a combination of biological static experiments and some experiments that require crew interaction to mix materials to activate. The experiments within the module are returned to the ground for analysis.
Vascular Echo: The crew performed a 13 hour blood pressure monitoring session for the Vascular Echo study. Cardiac and Vessel Structure and Function with Long-Duration Space Flight and Recovery (Vascular Echo) examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone.
Rotifer-B2: The crew installed eight Rotifer B2 Experiment Containers in Kubik 5 and eight Rotifer B2 Experiment Containers in Kubik 6. The crew then removed each Experiment Container and gently shook each in order to displace bubbles from samples and then reinstalled them back into the Kubik facilities. Historical photos were taken of a crewmember shaking the containers.
Space Organogenesis: The crew prepared samples of the Space Organogenesis experiment and initiated rotation sessions as well as periodic observation checks. The Development of Advanced 3D Organ Culture System Utilizing the Microgravity Environment (Space Organogenesis) investigation demonstrates growth of organ buds from human stem cells in three-dimensional (3D) cultures in microgravity. Researchers plan to use these cultures to observe growth of the organ buds and analyze changes in gene expression. Cell culture on Earth needs supportive materials or forces to achieve 3D growth, but in microgravity cell cultures likely can expand into three dimensions without those devices.
MVP (Multi-use Variable-g Platform) Cell-06: The crew took historical documentation photos and installed eight Cell-06 Experiment Modules into the Multi-use Variable-g Platform. The Cartilage–Bone–Synovium Micro-Physiological System Investigation Using the Multi-purpose Variable-G Platform (MVP Cell-06) develops a biological model to study the effects of spaceflight on musculoskeletal disease. Traumatic joint injury may lead to arthritis after loss of cartilage and bone, a disease called post-traumatic osteoarthritis. This investigation could lead to drugs to prevent the progression of this disease.
PAUL (Powered Ascent Utility Lockers): The crew uninstalled PAUL units s/n 001 and 002 from the Dragon and installed them into the Columbus Express Rack. Crew took front photos of front of installed units. The PAUL is reconfigurable hardware that provides power to payloads during ascent to the space station. That makes it possible to control temperature and other conditions for investigations during their trip to the space station, expanding the possibilities for research aboard the orbiting laboratory.
Cardinal Heart: The crew installed the CO2 controller into SABL-1 (Space Automated Bioproduct Lab) and relocated Cardinal Heart Tissue Habitats (4) from SABL-2 to SABL-1. Media bags were also placed into cold stowage. Effect of Microgravity on Drug Responses Using Engineered Heart Tissues (Cardinal Heart) studies the effects of change in gravitational force on cardiovascular cells at the cellular and tissue level using engineered heart tissues (EHTs). Microgravity significantly affects heart tissues that perform work and exert an opposite force to gravity and is known to cause molecular and structural abnormalities in cells and tissues that can lead to disease. The investigation could provide new understanding of similar heart issues on Earth and help identify new treatments.
Rodent Research-10 (RR-10): The crew installed four Rodent Habitats into Express Racks and powered up each unit in preparation for Rodent transfers. Tissue degeneration and failure of tissue to regenerate normally in microgravity are becoming increasing concerns for sustaining life in space. The CDKN1a/p21 pathway is known to be a key molecular mechanism involved in inhibiting tissue regenerative processes, and scientific evidence suggest it is required for the arrest of regenerative bone formation observed in microgravity.
STaARS BioScience-4 (Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems): The crew installed four STaARS Experiment Controllers and two Experiment Containers into STaARS-1 Experiment Facility. The STaARS BioScience-4 investigation examines how oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) react to microgravity, specifically the rate at which the cells proliferate and differentiate in the microgravity environment.
Ice Cubes Experiment Cube #6 – Kirara: The crew installed Cube #6 (Kirara 2) into the ICE Cubes Facility. In the Ice Cubes Experiment Cube #6 – Kirara mission, a 1-Unit (1U)-sized incubator, equipped with a temperature controller, is used to allow protein crystallization to happen in microgravity under a well-maintained temperature inside the cube. This first mission is aimed as an in-orbit validation test for a protein crystallization service as part of future commercial space activities. This first demonstration mission includes proteins for seven different companies and research institutes.
Systems
Dragon Cargo Transfer Ops: Following yesterday’s successful SpX-21 docking and ingress, today FE-10 and FE-13 continued transferring cargo from Dragon to the ISS.
SpX-21 Dragon Emergency Response Review: With the arrival of SpX-21, the 63S crew reviewed emergency response training materials.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Dragon transfer ops support
Payloads support

