
Payloads:
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-23 (J-SSOD-23): The J-SSOD-23 experiment hardware was removed from the JEM Airlock slide table and stowed. The four J-SSOD-23 satellites were successfully deployed in early December. J-SSOD provides a novel and safe small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD is installed onto the slide table by the crew, it is passed through the JEM Airlock for retrieval, positioning, and satellite deployment by the JEMRMS.
Pore Formation and Mobility Investigation-Asymmetric Sawtooth and Cavity-Enhanced Nucleation-Driven Transport (PFMI-ASCENT):  The crew removed the calibration ampoule and installed the first science ampoule into the PFMI-ASCENT experiment hardware. PFMI-ASCENT demonstrates a passive cooling system for electronic devices in microgravity using a microstructured surface. When fluids boil over flat heated surfaces in microgravity, vapor bubbles grow larger in size, causing poor heat transfer that can lead to damage of devices. Adding microscopic ratchets on the surface may passively enable mobility of vapor bubbles and prevent this damage.
Plant Habitat facility: In response to reports of a faulty Quick Disconnect (QD) in the Plant Habitat water system, the crew began work to install a series of jumpers in the facility. Plant Habitat will be used to support the Plant Habitat-03 experiment in the near future. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This investigation could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food, air, and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Veg-05:  The crew installed 5 of the 12 plant pillows in support of the Veg-05 experiment session. This will be completed next week, at which time we will begin the 104-day growth cycle for the Red Robin dwarf tomato species. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet may need to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has been testing aboard the ISS to help meet this need, and leafy greens have successfully been grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-05 expands crop variety to dwarf tomatoes and focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on fruit production, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace: Today, the crew removed and replaced the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter. After replacement, the crew performed a functionality test of the WHC. This routine maintenance is performed to ensure that the WHC and its internal filter systems are operating at peak efficiency for the crew on-orbit. The WHC acts as the main toiletries system in the US operating segment.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove and Replace (R&R) Part 3: Today, the crew completed the activities related to the removed and replaced Fan Pump Separator (FPS). Parts 1 and 2 of this R&R were completed yesterday. Today, crew primed the EMU water pump, performed a hardware dry out, and completed EMU closeout activities. The FPS assembly is a component of the Primary Life Support System (PLSS) that provides circulation of the ventilation and cooling fluids for the EMU.
SpX-Crew Dragon Deorbit Entry and Landing Contingencies Refresher: Today, the crew participated in an On-Board Training (OBT) to refresh themselves on the procedures in the event of a SpaceX Crew Dragon contingency deorbit and landing. Crew reviewed CBT locations, Ops Products, and SpaceX Crew Dragon documentation. These OBTs are performed regularly to ensure that the Crew is up-to-date on the latest safety and contingency procedures.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

VEG-05 Experiment Install
Stratospheric Aerosol and Gas Experiment Data Downlink
JAXA International Circuit (HOSC-6) Maintenance

