
Rodent Research-19 (RR-19): The crew Installed four Rodent Habitats into the Express racks 1 and 2A. This study uses rodent models on the ISS to investigate the potential benefits of targeting the myostatin (MSTN) and activin signaling pathways to prevent skeletal muscle and bone loss during spaceflight and on the recovery of muscle and bone following return to Earth. This research could provide valuable preclinical data to support clinical trials for MSTN therapies for a wide range of conditions that affect muscle and bone health. Such research is particularly important for conditions that involve disuse muscle atrophy (muscle wasting due to immobility or lessened activity)—for example, patients recovering from hip fracture surgery, intensive care patients, and the elderly.
Fluid Shifts: The crew performed Fluid Shifts baseline scans. Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage. 
Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Protein Crystallization Growth (JAXA-PCG): The crew initiated protein crystallization growth inside the FROST2 facility. The objective of the JAXA PCG investigation is to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity. The crystals are returned to Earth to determine protein structures in detail; the structures are used to develop pharmaceutical drugs, and to explore the mystery of our lives. The protein samples are launched to the ISS by a Soyuz or Progress Vehicle, and crystallized at 20℃ using the counter-diffusion method.
Space Moss: The crew inserted eight samples into the Space Moss chamber, which was inserted into the Plant Experiment Unit, which was then attached to the 1g and Micro-G CBEF incubator sample tray. Environmental Response and Utilization of Mosses in Space – Space Moss (Space Moss) grows mosses aboard the space station, and on Earth, to determine how microgravity affects their growth, development, gene expression, photosynthetic activity, and other features. Tiny plants without roots, mosses need only a small area for growth, an advantage for their potential use in space and future bases on the Moon or Mars.
XENOGRISS: The crew performed the XenogrISS activation in the Node 2 location. This experiment aims to study the effect of microgravity on the processes of growth and regeneration using an animal model (Xenopus laevis tadpoles), which allows to observe both processes at the same time. The results of the experiment can be relevant for both space exploration and diseases control on Earth. In addition, preliminary assessment on the best diet (animal/vegetable proteins) to support the experimental model in microgravity, will contribute to studies on the nutritional aspects involved in long-lasting flights. The research project has also educational aims because it involves a group of High School students, who will collaborate to the preparation of the experiment both from the scientific and technological (hardware refurbishment) point of view.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew installed Science Module 3 (newly arrived on SpX-19) into Express rack 1 for a powered temporary stowage configuration. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods.
NanoRacks Module-83: The crew installed Module-83 into Platform 2 for powered ops. SpaceChain explores the use of block chain capabilities in space to support the developing space economy. The investigation validates the hardware and software needed for and verifies the relay and validation of transactions from a ground station to the block chain-enabled payload and back again. Conducting complex transactions tests potential security threats.
GRIP: The crew reviewed procedures, configured the seat and performed a GRIP science session. ESA’s GRIP investigation tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects.  Results from this investigation may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments.  They also support design and control of haptic interfaces to be used in challenging environments such as space, and provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.
Systems:
74 Progress (74P) Docking: Progress 74P performed a nominal automated rendezvous and docking to the DC1 port.  The automated rendezvous began at GMT 343/08:18:30.   Docking capture occurred at 10:35:11, Progress hooks were closed at ≈10:40:07.  At 13:29 the DC-1/vestibule hatch was opened and at 13:37 the 74P/vestibule hatch was opened.
Completed Task List Activities:

No task list items were completed

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Solar Array feathering (74P)
TRRJ feathering (74P)
SPS power down/up (74P)
ISS attitude maneuvers (74P)

Tuesday, 12/10 (GMT 344)
Payloads:


Rotifer-B1 inserts into Kubik 6 (ESA)
Bio-Monitor Battery replace and Wearable hardware setup (CSA)
ICE Cubes #6 install into facility (ESA)
LSR Manifold Closing Cap installation (ESA)
GRIP session #2 (ESA)
Life Support Rack manifold caps installation (ESA)
ELF Gas bottle unit air vlv-close (JAXA)
RR-14 Transfers (NASA)
Inertial Spreading setup (NASA)
S-Flame CIR ACME controller replace (NASA)
ISS Experience hardware Stow (NASA)

Systems:

Start JEM Lower CO2 gas supply
HMS Automated External Defibrillator (AED) inspection
Dragon Emergency Review OBT
EHS TOCA Waste Water Bag change out 

Wednesday, 12/11 (GMT 345)
Payloads:


Bio-Monitor Wearable changeout (CSA)
GRIP Supine Session #3 (ESA)
RR-19 Transporter stow and Access clean and BD scans (NASA)
Inertial Spreading Payload Ops (NASA)
Bone Densitometer Quality Control check (NASA)
ISS HAM pass (NASA)

Systems:

Dragon Emergency OBT Debrief Conference
Regenerative ECLSS Tank Operations

Thursday, 12/12 (GMT 346)
Payloads:


Bio-Monitor Wearable Doff and stow (CSA)
GRASP Session #1 (ESA)
CBEF setup #2 and FPEF cable connect and VRU3 exchange (JAXA)
RR-19 Bone Densitometer Scans (NASA)
NR-Zero G oven sample install and removal (NASA)
NR Module 85 Tube retrieval and CS insert (NASA)
TangoLab Card cube replace (NASA)
ISS HAM Pass (NASA)

Systems:

JEM Mesh Cover-Return Grille Cleaning

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Check Closure of SM window shutters 6,8,9,12,13,14   Refer to comment 6
BIOMAG-M. Preparation and Thermostat activation to +29 deg C
MPEG2 Multicast Test via Ku-band (Activation of TV data and MPEG2 Multicast controls)
Preparation for Progress 74P Docking
Locker Removal from Dragon
Fluid Shifts Stowage Relocation
Fluid Shifts OCT2 Baseline Imaging Setup
USOS Window Shutter Close
Progress Docking to DC1
Dragon CTB Retrieve
ISS HAM Radio Power Down in Service Module
ISS HAM Radio Power Down in Columbus
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 2 Power On
Cold Stowage Double Coldbag Unpack
Fluid Shifts CDL Holter Arterial BP Hardware Don
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Baseline Imaging Scan Subject
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Baseline Imaging Scan Operator
On MCC GO Activation of MPEG2 Multicast Recording Mode on Central Post SSC
Space Moss Item Gathering
TV system controls deactivation, Closing Applications and Downlink of MPEG2 Multicast Video via OCA
Cold Atom Lab Science Moduel 3 Install into Express Rack
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Space Moss Sample Attachment
Fluid Shifts CCFP Baseline Imaging Test
Polar Dragon Uninstall (with Rodent Transporter) Transfer, and EXPRESS Rack Install
Fluid Shifts MELFI Retrieval
On MCC GO Progress 74P / DC1 Interface Leak Check
Handover. Leak check, hatch opening and ЗВБ setup
Fluid Shifts OCT2 Baseline Imaging Exam Operator
Fluid Shifts OCT2 Baseline Imaging Exam Subject
XenoGRISS Activation
Fluid Shifts DPOAE Baseline Imaging Test
Fluid Shifts OCT2 Baseline Imaging Stow
Inertial Spreading Operations Overview
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Imaging Setup
GRIP Big picture reading
Inertial Spreading Hardware Gather
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Imaging Exam Operator
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Imaging Exam Subject
DC-СУ Transfer Hatch Opening
Fluid Shifts CDL Holter Arterial BP Hardware Doff
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Imaging Stow
Fluid Shifts CCFP Baseline Imaging Stow
On MCC GO Progress-СУ Hatch Opening
Fluid Shifts MELFI Insertion
On MCC GO Installation of Quick-Release Screw Clamps on DC1 side
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Baseline Imaging Scan Operator
COLLECTING AIR SAMPLES USING АК-1М SAMPLER IN PROGRESS 74P
Progress 74P deactivation, air duct installation
Bone Densitometer Rack Installation
Progress 74P (DC1) time-critical, priority, and US cargo transfers and IMS Ops
GRIP Big picture reading
GRIP setup in the SEATED configuration
Food Acceptability Survey
Bone Densitometer Calibration and Quality Control Check
Powered Ascent Utility Locker Hardware Transfer
GRIP science performance in seated position
Rodent Research Habitat Install
MELFI # Ice Brick Insert X
KRISTALLIZATOR. PCG Kit Transfer from Progress 74P, Inspection, and Handover to USOS
XF305 Camcorder Setup
KRISTALLIZATOR. Photo of PCG Kit Handover
Glacier Desiccant Swap
JAXA Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) Crystallization Start
PROBIOVIT.  Hardware transfer from Progress 74P
PROBIOVIT.  Photography of PROBIOVIT kits #3,4 stowage
Microgravity Science Glovebox Activation
МСК-2. Hardware Transfer from Progress 74P to SM NUTRITIONAL MEDIUM kit stowage in ТБУ-В (No.07) thermostat
BIOMAG-M. FACTOR Equipment Relocation from Progress 74P
Tool Gather for LSR H2 Cap Installation
BIOMAG-M. FACTOR hardware insertion into thermostat at + 29 deg C for incubation
NanoRacks Platform-2 Module Install
On-Board Training (OBT) Dragon Emergency Review
МСК-2. Hardware Installation and Activation
GRIP science performance in seated position
Bone Densitometer Calibration and Quality Control Check
VELO Exercise, Day 3
БД-2 Exercise, Day 4
MELFI Ice Brick Inserts

 