12-03-2011December 03, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/03/11  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Saturday – Crew rest day.  After wakeup, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  At wake-up, CDR Burbank completed his 5th post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol. [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  CDR Burbank, FE-1 Shkaplerov & FE-2 Ivanishin joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module). ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab. Since this was the last scheduled round of Housekeeping for Exp-29, Mike & Satoshi paid special attention to some safeguarding issues to ensure a good configuration in the unlikely event of station decrewing (failure of 28S crew arriving): Flammable materials securely stowed away from UOPs (Utility Outlet Panels), Rack Power Outlets, and Power Strips, no loose items that could become free-floaters during nominal dynamic events, ventilation diffusers clear of stowage, and HEPA filters vacuum-cleaned.]  As part of Uborka house cleaning, Anton & Anatoly completed regular weekly maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) and the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille in the SM. Before the cleaning, all fan screens were photographed for ground inspection.  Dan meanwhile conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection & maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 & O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.  Shkaplerov completed the daily routine servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of theKTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV,KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.]  The CDR filled out his 2nd weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer). [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software. Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins. The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health. Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]  After Burbank had conducted the pre-exercise inspection of the ARED advanced resistive exercise device deferred from yesterday, the ground gave the Go-ahead for using the machine. [The inspection was intended for the machine’s yoke beam and seat track interface after the recent unisolated ARED exercise by the crew on 11/26 (which did no apparent damage).Specifically, the ARED VIS (Vibration isolation System) lock pins had been erroneously installed during exercise. The crew then executed two sets of unisolated ARED exercise. After reviewing the ARED configuration and associated exercise, engineers gave a GO for continued use of ARED. The ARED hardware already has placards to preclude unisolated exercise. Given the vibration data and crew report, reconstruction of the induced vehicle loads by S&M (Structures & Mechanics) was undertaken by the engineers. Preliminary conclusion was that no load limits were violated; ISS lifetime impacts were under review.]  Before exercising on the US T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill, the two Russian crewmembers, Anton & Anatoly, reviewed the use of the machine as required of each new crewmember prior to the first physical exercised session, and observed Dan Burbank working out on the device.  The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).  At ~8:10am EST, the three crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.  CDR & FE-2 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) on today’s schedule, via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Anatoly at ~5:30am, Dan at ~11:35pm EST.  Tasks listed for Shkaplerov & Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were – A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, aiming for Arenal Volcano. Poas Volcano, Galeras Volcano, Colombia, Volcano Hudson, Volcano Cerro Hudson, Chile, Volcano Kilauea, Hawaii, and the glaciers of Patagonia, A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-east Atlantic, South-Eastern Pacific, and the south-west Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, More preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb), and Another ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop.  WRM Update: A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit. [The new card (29-0008A) lists 32 CWCs (535.7 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (6 CWCs with 234.5 L, for Elektron electrolysis, all containing Wautersia bacteria; 2. Condensate water (3 CWCs with 19.1 L), 7 empty bags; 3. Iodinated water (11 CWCs with 186.4 L; also 3 expired bags with 59.1 L); 4. Waste water (1 bag with 6.4 L EMU waste water); and 5. Special fluid (1 CWC with 20.2 L, hose/pump flush). Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents. Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources. These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  GHF Checkout: On 12/1, JAXA ground controllers began an extensive checkout of the GHF (Gradient Heating Furnace) payload on the Kobairo Rack in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) which will continue through the next 14 days.  VolSci Deferral: The planned Voluntary Weekend Science activity for Dan Burbank in the JAXA JPM with the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment) payload was deferred to some later date.  Weekly Science Update (Expedition Twenty-Nine/Thirty -- Week 11)  2D NANO Template (JAXA): No report.  3D SPACE: Complete.  AgCam (Agricultural Camera): No report.  ALTCRISS (Alteino Long Term monitoring of Cosmic Rays on the ISS): Complete.  ALTEA SHIELD (NASA/ASI): Radiation data measurements were performed with 5 out of 6 Silicon Detector Units. Since 10/16 one detector unit is off. However, since measurements in all 3 directions are collected, there is no real impact on science.  AMS-02 (Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer): AMS payload and laptop continue nominal science operations. AMS Laptop successfully recovered following the autonomous Express Rack 6 reboot on 12/1. Planning for AMS thermal mitigation plans during the upcoming January 2012 high negative Beta pass continues.  APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) -Cambium: No report.  APEX-TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System): No report.  Asian Seed 2010 (JAXA): Returned on ULF6.  BCAT-6 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test 6): No report. [Colloids are particles as small as a few tens of nanometers (a thousandth of a thousandth of a millimeter) that are suspended in a medium, usually a liquid or a gas. The name “colloid” comes from the Greek word for “glue”, and expresses very important properties of colloids: when small and light enough, particles can be influenced in their behavior by forces of electromagnetic origin, and make them stick together, or repel each other depending on the configuration. Colloids are widely studied in science because the forces between particles can be controlled and tuned and because particles, while being small enough to be influenced by such forces, are big and slow enough to be seen with a relatively simple and inexpensive laboratory instrument like a microscope. This is why colloids are often studied as model for molecular systems (like standard gases or liquids) where molecules, the individual constituents, are much smaller than colloids and cannot be seen with light. As mentioned, forces between colloids can be tuned giving rise to a rich variety of phenomena. One of them is aggregation, which is when particles stick together and tend to form structures. Among the many ways to induce particle aggregation, one allows to do so by controlling the temperature of the solution in which the particles are immersed, thanks to very weak forces called “critical Casimir forces” that have been predicted more than 30 years ago but just partially verified in experiments. The objective of SODI COLLOID is to measure such forces and produce a controlled aggregation of tiny plastic particles. This would allow to shed light on critical Casimir forces and to make a step towards the fabrication of new nanostructured materials with remarkable optical properties for industrial applications.]  BIOLAB (ESA): No report.  BIORHYTHMS (JAXA, Biological Rhythms): No report.  BISE (CSA, Bodies in the Space Environment): No report.  BISPHOSPHONATES: No report.  BXF-Facility (Boiling eXperiment Facility, NASA): No report.  BXF-MABE (Microheater Array Boiling Experiment, NASA): No report.  BXF-NPBX (Pool Boiling Experiment, NASA): No report.  CARD (Long Term Microgravity: Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease, ESA): No report.  CARDIOCOG-2: Complete.  CB (JAXA Clean Bench): No report.  CBEF-2 (JAXA Cell Biology Experiment Facility)/SPACE SEED: No report.  CCISS (Cardiovascular & Cerebrovascular Control on Return from ISS): No report.  CERISE (JAXA): No report.  CCF (Capillary Channel Flow, NASA): No report.  CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiment 2, NASA): No report.  CFS-A (Colored Fungi in Space-A, ESA): No report.   CSI-5/CGBA-5 (CGBA Science Insert #5/Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5): No report.  CGBA-2 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 2): Complete.  CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), MDCA/Flex: No report.  Commercial (Inc 23&24, JAXA): No report.  Commercial (Inc 25 & 26, JAXA): No report.  CSLM-2 (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures 2): No report.  CsPins (JAXA): No report.  CubeLab: No report.  CW/CR (Cell Wall/Resist Wall) in EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System): Complete.  DECLIC-ALI (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids & Crystallization-ALICE-like, CNES/NASA): The end of the sequence ALI-SC4 was dedicated to the observation and analysis of the boiling phenomena in SF6 when pulse energy is injected into the cell (DOC or IOC). ALI-SC4 run is now finished and DECLIC was deactivated on day 11/30. During the run we have taken 50,000 images. The next run will be performed in February 2012 (ALI-SC6).  DomeGene (JAXA): Complete.   DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS, ESA): No report.  EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students): No report.  EDR (European Drawer Rack, ESA): No report.  EKE (Endurance Capacity by Gas Exchange and Heart Rate Kinetics During Physical Training, ESA): No report.  ELITE-S2 (Elaboratore Immagini Televisive - Space 2): Planned.   EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System): Nominal water pump servicing was performed by ground commanding on 10/13.  ENose (Electronic Nose): No report.  EPM (European Physiology Module): No report.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Eye in the Sky; Sleep 2): No report.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Sesame Street): No report.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Kids in Micro-G): No report.  EPO (Educational Payload Operations, NASA) (Earth/Moon/Mars Demo): No report.  EPO LES-2 (ESA): No report.  EPO GREENHOUSE (ESA): No report.  EPO 3-min Video (JAXA): No report.  EPO J-Astro Report (JAXA): No report.  EPO Dewey’s Forest (JAXA): Closed out on 3/15.  EPO Space Clothes (JAXA): Complete.  EPO Hiten (Dance, JAXA): No report.  EPO Lego Bricks (NASA, JAXA): No report.  EPO-5 SpaceBottle (Message in a Bottle, JAXA): No report.  EPO Moon Score (JAXA): No report.  EPO-7 Try Zero-G (JAXA): No report.  EPO Kibo Kids Tour (JAXA): Complete.  EPO Paper Craft (Origami, JAXA): No report.  EPO Poem (JAXA): No report.  EPO-6 Spiral Top 2 (JAXA): No report.  EPO-7 Doctor Demo (JAXA): No report.  EPO-7 Green Tea Preparation (JAXA): No report.  EPO-7 Ink Ball (JAXA): No report.  EPO-7 Video (JAXA):   ERB-2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular, ESA): [ERB-2 aims are to develop narrated video material for various PR & educational products & events, including a 3D interior station view.] No report.  ETD (Eye Tracking Device): Completed.  FACET-2 (JAXA): No report.   FERULATE (JAXA): No report.  FIR/LMM/CVB (Fluids Integrated Rack / Light Microscopy Module / Constrained Vapor Bubble): “Dan: Excellent job configuring LMM to perform PACE-2 LED test runs! We especially appreciate you reinstalling the loose objective lens and dispensing oil onto the sample in spite of the bent dispenser tip. The PACE-2 LED test runs will allow for characterizing the LMM Microscope in support of ACE (Advanced Colloids Experiment), which is scheduled to begin in 2012.”  Fish Scales (JAXA): Completed on FD7/ULF-4 and returned on STS-132.  FOAM STABILITY (ESA): No report.  FOCUS: No report.  FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory, ESA): No report.  FWED (Flywheel Exercise Device, ESA): No report.  GENARA-A (Gravity Regulated Genes in Arabidopsis A/ESA): No report.  GEOFLOW-2 (ESA): The science team agreed to the engineering recommendation, i.e. to restart the science runs at so-called high working environment. This week two science runs have been performed, i.e. run#ie5 (no-rotation run at highest T_cold with initial delta_T at 0.2K and increasing by steps of 0.4K) and run#i8 (no-rotation run at highest T_cold with initial delta_T at 0.5K and increasing by steps of 0.4K.). The second run was unfortunately impacted by an FSL Optical Diagnostic Module (ODM) anomaly: the last 2 (out of 25) science set-points could not be completed, and will have to be rescheduled. Science and MVIS data will be downlinked later. [Background: Everybody is familiar with liquids. In an average day we get to use, handle or drink water or other liquids. And everybody knows how fluids (that is liquids and gases) behave: when subjected to a net force, may be pressure, a temperature difference or gravity, they can move freely. Scientists have been studying how fluids move for centuries, and managed to write mathematical formulas that can describe and predict such movements. Unfortunately, these equations are extremely complex and only approximate solutions are known. As a result, our quantitative understanding of fluid movement is just partial. This is especially true for natural phenomena where the forces can be enormous and unpredictable, like in oceans or in the atmosphere. Or the interior of the earth, where rocks are exposed to pressures and temperatures so incredibly high that they slowly move and adapt their shape. That is, over hundreds of years rocks flow just like a very viscous liquid. Scientists try to study such flows but cannot observe them directly due to the fact that they take place deep beneath the surface of our planet. The only way is to have computers simulating those movements starting from the equations, but how to check whether computers are correct? This is what Geoflow II is trying to answer on board the International Space Station. Geoflow II is a miniature planet that has some of its essential ingredients: a fluid can freely move inside a spherical container that rotates, has temperature differences and has a simulated gravity directed towards the centre just like in a real planet. By taking pictures of the fluid movements, scientists are able to understand the essential characteristics of the flows and determine whether computer simulations are correct or whether they need to be refined and improved towards a better understanding of the elusive movements that take place inside our planet.]  HAIR (JAXA): No report.  HDTV System (JAXA): No report.  Hicari (JAXA): On 11/25, Dan completed the MMA cable exchange at Kobairo Rack. Ground activities on 11/26 completed the GHF Vacuum Process. GHF Experiment checkout started on 12/1, with an expected duration of 14 days. Hicari checkout is planned to start after that.  Holter ECG (JAXA): No report.  HQPC (JAXA): Was delivered by 34P.  HREP (HICO/Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean & RAIDS/Remote Atmospheric & Ionospheric Detection System/JAXA): The external facility HREP consists of 2 payloads: HICO and RAIDS. HICO has taken 4595 images to-date. The most recent HICO images include the Arabian Sea, Coral Bay (Australia) and the coast of Maine. RAIDS is collecting secondary Science data including nighttime atmospheric disk photometry, spectra and temperatures. Extreme Ultra Violet airglow spectroscopy and optical contamination studies will also be performed.   HydroTropi (Hydrotropism & Auxin-Inducible Gene Expression in Roots Grown under Microgravity Conditions/JAXA): No report.  ICE CRYSTAL (JAXA): Complete.  ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular): “Dan, your first Integrated Cardiovascular data collection is now complete. Note that because of your shortened mission duration, you will perform four ICV sessions during your stay (at FD14, 30, 75 and R-15) instead of the usual five. We are looking forward to your next echo (another self scan) in a week or so!”  IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine & Immune Responses in Humans During & After Long Term Stay at ISS): Complete.  INTEGRATED IMMUNE: No report.  InSPACE-2 (Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Emulsions 2): No report.  IRIS (Image Reversal in Space, CSA): No report.  ISS Amateur/Ham Radio: No report.  ISSAC (ISS Agricultural Camera, NASA): No report.  IV Gen (Intravenous Fluids Generation): No report.   JOURNALS (Behavioral Issues Associated with Isolation and Confinement, NASA): [Studies conducted on Earth have shown that analyzing the content of journals and diaries is an effective method for identifying the issues that are most important to a person. The method is based on the reasonable assumption that the frequency that an issue or category of issues is mentioned in a journal reflects the importance of that issue or category to the writer. The tone of each entry (positive, negative, or neutral) and phase of the expedition also are variables of interest. Study results will lead to recommendations for the design of equipment, facilities, procedures, and training to help sustain behavioral adjustment and performance during long-duration space expeditions to the ISS, asteroids, the Moon, Mars, and beyond. Results from this study could help to improve the behavioral performance of people living and working under a variety of conditions here on Earth.]  KID/KUBIK6: No report.  KUBIK 3 (ESA): No report.  LMM/PACE-2 (Light Microscopy Module / Preliminary Advanced Colloids Experiment): No report.  LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System): No report.  Marangoni Exp. (JAXA): No report.  Marangoni DSD – Dynamic Surf (JAXA): Payload name was change from Marangoni DSD to Dynamic Surf.  Marangoni UVP (JAXA): No report.  MARES (Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System, ESA/NASA): No report.  Matryoshka-2 (RSA): No report.  MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-ray Image, JAXA): Continuing telemetry monitoring.  MDCA/Flex-2: Since mid-November, CIR/MDCA performed twelve test points from the science matrix at five different chamber atmospheres. One test point did not ignite, and we repeated four test points so we could try them with their fuel droplets tethered to the fiber (instead of free floating). We are looking for the Flammability Boundaries for methanol and heptane fuels with helium diluted in pre-EVA ambient environments (30% oxygen, 70% nitrogen, 0.7 atm).  MEIS (Marangoni Experiment for ISS) in JAXA FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility): No report.   Microbe-2 (JAXA): Sample returned by ULF6.  Micro-G Clay (JAXA EPO): Complete.  MISSE-8 (Materials ISS Experiment 8): The external investigation MISSE-8 is operating nominally. MISSE-8 is still investigating potential correlations of CIB resets to active MISSE-8 experiments and sub-experiments. PASCAL has performed nominal commanding that produced IV curves of the solar cells. IV curves are plots of the current versus voltage for solar cells and tell a lot about how these are performing. The SpaceCube experiment is running code for new radiation hardening by software.  MMA (JAXA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus): No report.  MPAC/SEED (JAXA): No report.  MSG-SAME (Microgravity Science Glovebox-Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment): No report.  MSPR (Multi Purpose Small Payload Rack, JAXA): No report.  MSL (Materials Science Laboratory, ESA): No report.  MTR-2 (Russian radiation measurements): Passive dosimeters measurements in DC-1 “Pirs”.  MULTIGEN-1: Completed.  MYCO 3 (JAXA): On 9/22, Mike and Satoshi completed sample collection.  MyoLab (JAXA): Completed on 4/20.  NANOSKELETON (Production of High Performance Nanomaterials in Microgravity, JAXA): No report.  NEURORAD (JAXA): No report.  NEUROSPAT (ESA/Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration): No report.  NOA-1/-2 (Nitric Oxide Analyzer, ESA): Complete.  NUTRITION w/REPOSITORY/ProK: No report.  ODK (Onboard Diagnostic Kit, JAXA): On 10/27, Satoshi completed the Questionnaire as a task list item.  PACE-2 (Preliminary Advanced Colloids Experiment 2, NASA): (please see under FIR and LMM/PACE-2.  PADIAC (Pathway Different Activators, ESA): No report.  PADLES (JAXA, Area PADLES 6/7; Passive Area Dosimeter for Lifescience Experiment in Space): The 17 Dosimeters for PADLES-6 were returned by 27S. PADLES-7 is now under planning coordination; new 17 Dosimeters will be launched on 29S. Expected day for installation of Dosimeters is 12/23.  PASSAGES (JAXA): No report.  PCDF-PU (Protein Crystallization Diagnostic Facility - Process Unit): No report.  PCG (JAXA, Protein Crystal Growth): Returned on 26S on 9/16.  PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility) Reconfiguration (JAXA): See PCG.  PLSG (Plant Signaling, NASA/ESA): No report.  PMDIS (Perceptual Motor Deficits in Space): Complete.  POLCA/GRAVIGEN (ESA): Complete.  Portable PFS: No report.  Pro K: No report.  RadGene & LOH (JAXA): Complete.  RadSilk (JAXA): No report.  Reaction Self Test (RST/Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS): "Dan, thank you for your continued participation in Reaction Self Test! We had our nominal monthly downlink this week and we look forward to reviewing your data."  Robonaut (NASA): No report.  RYUTAI Rack (JAXA): No report.  SAIBO Rack (JAXA): No report.   SAMS/MAMS (Space & Microgravity Acceleration Measurement Systems): No report.  SAMPLE: Complete.  SCOF (Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, JAXA): No report.  SEDA-AP (Space Environment Data Acquisition Equipment-Attached Payload, JAXA): Continuing telemetry monitoring.  SHERE II (Shear History Extensional Rheology Experiment II): No report.  SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device): No report.  SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight): No report.  SMILES (JAXA): Continuing telemetry monitoring.  SODI/IVIDIL (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Influence of Vibration on Diffusion in Liquids, ESA): No report.  SODI/COLLOID (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Colloid): On 11/25 the science program could finally be started (2.5 weeks delay from initial DSC plan). On 11/27, it was unfortunately noticed that 3 science runs were acquired with bad image quality, root cause being that the DSC instrument did not take into account a configuration file while running the automated sequence of science run. From 11/27 to date, 8 science runs have been nominally performed and the DSC science team has already confirmed the science validity of the results for 4 of them. On 11/30, the crew nominally exchanged the SODI Flash Disks (FD#1, FD#2). The science program is foreseen to continue for several weeks.  SODI-DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument/Diffusion & Soret Coefficient, ESA): No report.  SOLAR (Solar Monitoring Observatory, ESA): Since 11/23 we are acquiring science for Sun Visibility Window (SVW) #47. For SOLSPEC, several daily measurements and usual calibration have been performed. SolACES has been put in warmed up mode to protect for optical degradation during the SM reboost test on 11/30. This instrument will remain in that condition until 12/3. SVW#47 predicted end by 12/6.  SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity): No report.  Space-DRUMS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System): No report.  Space Food (JAXA): No report.  SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite): No report.  SPHINX (SPaceflight of Huvec: an Integrated eXperiment, ESA): No report.  SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment): No report.   SPINAL (Spinal Elongation): No report.  SPRINT: No report.  SS-HDTV (Super Sensitivity High Definition Camera, JAXA): No more runs planned on Task List for Satoshi.  STP-H3 (Space Test Program – Houston 3): The external facility MHTEX is currently running in a steady state mode. Canary is analyzing data from previous data takes. VADER is continuing lifetime testing of the VEDs at a reduced cycle rate. DISC has taken more images this week and is processing images that were taken in previous weeks.  SWAB (Characterization of Microorganisms & Allergens in Spacecraft): No report.  TASTE IN SPACE (ESA): No report.  THERMOLAB (ESA): No report.  TRAC (Test of Reaction & Adaptation Capabilities): Planned.  TREADMILL KINEMATICS: “Dan, thank you very much for completing your first Treadmill Kinematics session!”  TRIPLELUX-B (ESA): No report.  ULTRASOUND: Planned.  UMS (Urine Monitoring System (NASA): No report.  VASCULAR (CSA): “No report.  VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module, NASA): No report.  VESSEL ID System (ESA): Nominal measurements with the NORAIS receiver were performed.  VESSEL IMAGING (ESA): [It is known that the ability of blood vessels to vasoconstrict - the ability of the muscular vessel wall to narrow the diameter of the blood vessel - is impaired during and after a human has been in space. "Vessel Imaging" is using the Ultrasound scanner on board the ISS to take images of the five different blood vessels in the lower abdomen and in the legs to study what changes occur to cause the blood vessels to be less able to vasoconstrict. For each vessel, a 5 second scan is performed to observe the blood vessel during several heart beats, followed by a scan where the ultrasound scan-head is tilted to allow a "cut through the blood vessel wall". The same scans are also performed before flight, and these pre-flight images are used as the baseline to which the in-flight data is compared with. The images are analyzed to detect any changes in the blood vessel wall properties, such as wall thickness, elasticity or structure, changes in the size of the blood vessel or blood flow (volume) while the crewmember is in orbit.]  VIABLE (eValuatIon And monitoring of microBiofiLms insidE the ISS Payload Touch, NASA): No report.  VO2max (NASA): No report.  VLE (Video Lessons ESA): No report.  WAICO #1/#2 (Waving and Coiling of Arabidopsis Roots at Different g-levels; ESA): No report.  YEAST B (ESA): No report.  CEO (Crew Earth Observation): “Welcome Increment 30! We of the CEO team look forward to working with you in the coming months to successfully accomplish the objectives of our payload. Please don’t hesitate to contact us if there is anything we can do to improve our products or provide feedback to your efforts. Through 11/28 we have received 1,217 of your CEO frames for review and cataloging. We are pleased to report your acquisition of imagery with times corresponding to those of our CEO Daily Target Lists for the following target: Antananarivo, Madagascar – broad context views of portions of the island were acquired but Antananarivo was not visible – we will continue to request this target. We routinely will provide feedback here each week on the targets you acquire as well as the quality, content, and composition of your photos. We will also provide captions and write-ups of your published imagery. Thanks for your support for our task-listed payload.”  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Panama City, Panama (looking slightly left of track for this Central American capital, with fair weather expected. The city is located near the Pacific side of the Panama Canal; the built materials of the urban area contrast sharply with surrounding vegetated areas. General context imagery of the city and its surroundings was requested), East India Cities at Night (ISS passed over eastern India during local nighttime hours, where most of the eastern, coastal cities were near nadir. Trying for both contextual views of the coastline at night and nadir shots of the larger, more visible cities, if possible), India-Pakistan Border Cities at Night (the crew approached the India-Pakistan border from the SE; an interesting approach that CEO staff has little imagery on. As they approached from the Arabian Sea, they were to look straight ahead for contextual views of the borderline and surrounding cities. If possible, looking near nadir to capture some of larger cities, such as Karachi, Lahore, and Islamabad), and Mediterranean Middle East Cities at Night(cities around the Nile River Delta and along the Mediterranean coast stand out very nicely in local nighttime hours. As ISS tracked NE, the crew was to look right of track to acquire contextual views of the Nile River Delta and the Mediterranean coast cities [cities like Tel-Aviv, Amman, and Beirut were distinguishable]).  