
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL):  Cristoforetti and ground teams pressurized the JEMAL and performed a leak check in preparation for Cyclops launcher removal, currently scheduled for 17 December 2014.
Human Research Facility (HRF):  Virts collected blood and Cristoforetti collected blood and saliva in support of Human Research experiments Biochem profile and Cardio Ox. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. The goal of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15, and 60 after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
BIOLAB: Cristoforetti unstowed tools required for the TCU Silica Gel Bag Exchange. The crew then cleaned the Biolab Temperature Control Units (TCUs), exchanged the Biolab TCU Silica Gel Bag for TCU 1 and 2 and exchanged the Biolab Glove box Gloves with new ones.  Later in the day, the crew performed health checks of the Biolab Glove box seals and gloves including sensors for the fan status, delta pressure, temperature and relative humidity. This work was performed in preparation for the Triplelux-B experiment scheduled to arrive via SpaceX-5 on December 18th.
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Bed Cleaning:  Following yesterday‘s successful removal of Desiccant/Sorbent Beds 201 and 202, Wilmore and Virts separated each CDRA Bed into two halves (Desiccant and Sorbent).  Once separated, the crew vacuumed the Adsorbent Dynamic Baffle Plate and Screen Retainer, cleaned a check valve on the Desiccant Bed, then installed a new filter screen and gasket onto the Adsorbent Cover.  Once the new filter was in place, the crew re-assembled each of the beds and performed a leak check to ensure that the new seals and check valves were working properly.  Desiccant/Sorbent Bed 201 passed its leak check, however Bed 202 exhibited an air leak. Tomorrow’s scheduled activity will focus on taking Bed 202 apart in order to troubleshoot the leak. The Lab CDRA continues to operate nominally in order to remove CO2 from the atmosphere.    
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday evening, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2) and to stow it on the Lab PDGF. The SPDM move was performed in preparation for upcoming SpaceX-5 external payload operations.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

HRF Urine Sample Collection & MELFI Insertion
HRF – Activation of Refrigerated Centrifuge
BIOME – Survey Completion
ISERV – Opening window shutters
OTKLIK. Equipment Check
HRF – Crew removes blood tubes and powers off the Refrigerated Centrifuge.
24-hour ECG (termination)
Opening СНТ pit
Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Removal
JEM Airlock Pressurization
SM Electric Power Supply System Feeder Test: Switching scope meters
24-hour BP monitoring (start)
JEM Airlock – Leak check
JPM – High Rate Data Multiplexer (HRMS) Panel Reconfiguration
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment Ops
URAGAN
VIZIR. Experiment Ops
ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position Verification / Pressure Control & Atmosphere Monitoring System
BLB -Cleaning Temperature Controlled Unit and Silica Bags Exchange
Photography of ISS RS window 3,5,6,7 / Photo Equipment
CDRA – Removal and Cleaning Aerosol Filters in Node 3
BLB – Exchange of Gloves in Biolab Glovebox
SM Electric Power Supply System Feeder Test: Switching scope meter 
Cleaning ВД1 and ВД2 Air Ducts in MRM2
CDRA – Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Bed Filter R&R
BLB – Glovebox Activities
SM Electric Power Supply System Feeder Test: Switching scope meter
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification / USOS procedures
Life On The Station Photo and Video
VIZIR. Battery Charge
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Filling RGN Recycle Tank
Node 3 CDRA – Leak check
ПФ1-4 Dust Filter Cartridge Replacement in SM
Photography of ISS RS window 3,5,6,7 panes – Closeout ops / Photo Equipment
FGB ЦВ1 Circulation Fan Screen Cleaning
Node 3 CDRA – Insulation Replacement
Closing СНТ pit
CDRA – Node 3 CDRA Bed Filter Installation
Filling RGN Recycle Tank

Completed Task List Items

3D Printer Coupon Removal and Stow
Create seattools USB 

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


MT Translate from WS-6 to WS-4

