
Payloads:
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4):  A crewmember redistributed the particles in the vial assembly, activated the InSPACE equipment, configure the MSG facility for downlink, and begin InSPACE 4 operations for runs #78 and #79.  InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Materials Science Research Rack-1 (MSRR-1):  The crew rotated the MSRR rack and visually inspected and cleaned leaky ITCS jumpers.  MSRR-1 is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. MSRR-1 can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules (EMs). Many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
RElative Satellite sWArming and Robotic Maneuvering (ReSWARM):  The Astrobee Free Flyers were set up, configured and checked out in preparation of future test runs.  ReSWARM uses the ISS’s free-flying Astrobees to demonstrate autonomous on-orbit robotic servicing such as assembly of structures and moving cargo.  The investigation tests coordination among multiple robots, robots and cargo, and robots and the environment in which they operate.  Future space missions could involve a variety of robotic operations including autonomous docking and repairs.
Crew Interacitve MObile companioN (CIMON):  A crewmember unstowed and performed a setup of the Cimon hardware in the Multi-Use Bracket Assembly.  The unit was activated and then powered off.  The Pilot Study with the CIMON is a technology demonstration project, and an observational study, that aims to obtain the first insights into the effects on crew support by an artificial intelligence (AI), in terms of efficiency and acceptance during long-term missions in space. Spaceflight missions put the crew under a substantial amount of stress and workload, and it is thought that AI could provide operational support to crew members.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF):  An empty Gas Bottle Unit was exchanged to supplying the Electrostatic Levitation Furnace.  ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Four Bed CO2 (4BCO2) Scrubber:  Sampling of CO2 effluent from the 4BCO2 Scrubber was performed.  The samples will be returned to the ground for analysis.  4BCO2 Scrubber demonstrates a technology for removing carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere on a spacecraft.  The technology is based on the current system in use on the ISS with mechanical upgrades in absorption beds, heater elements, and valves and use of an improved zeolite absorbent to reduce erosion and dust formation.  A goal for next-generation systems is continuous operation for 20,000 hours without a failure, and this technology is a step toward that goal.
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL):  A crewmember removed the MSL SQF (Solidification and Quench Furnace) Flight Mode 2 (FM2) unit and installed the MSL SQF FM1 unit.  The MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the International Space Station (ISS).  The MSL can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules.  In this way many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
Radio Frequency IDentification-Enabled Autonomous Logistics Management-2 (RFID Recon):  The RFID Recon Reader was installed on Astrobee Free Flyer and Astrobee autonomous operations were conducted. The crew was available to assist the ground teams in conducting science.  RFID Recon uses a radio frequency identification (RFID) reader and antennas attached to a robotic free-flyer named Astrobee to identify RFID-tagged cargo on the ISS to determine its presence and location in order to help the crew find items quickly and efficiently.  RFID tags are similar to barcodes, except they are electronic, do not require line-of-sight, and are able to respond through wireless communication.
Vascular Aging:  The Vascular Echo protocol was performed with guidance from the Vascular Echo ground team. This protocol included scans of the neck, thigh, portal vein and heart. Blood pressure measurements were also performed using the Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Unit.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems: 
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) and EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) Prep Activities: The crew continued working on post-EVA and EMU prep activities today including an EVA Battery Installation of Lithium-Ion Batteries into the Battery Stowage Compartment followed by an auto-cycle of the EVA Batteries using the EVA Battery Operations Terminal. EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) cooling loop maintenance was also completed which consists of ionic and particulate filtering of the EMU and Airlock cooling water loops, and then crew de-configured the EMU and stowed the EVA Tools. EMU loop scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Joint Station LAN (JSL) Configuration Troubleshooting: Today, the crew continued to perform troubleshooting activities to restore the JSL router and firewall configuration. First, crew reconfigured the W5074 cables on Node 2 JSL Router as a cleanup from the JSL 14.0 configuration. Second, the crew performed an Ethernet cable R&R between the Lab Firewall #1 and #2 in an effort to return to the nominal prime and backup firewall config. Firewall #1 is now running nominally and syncing with Firewall #2, and team is confirming whether this has fully resolved the JSL issues.
Completed Task List Activities:

Brine Processor Odor Feedback
Unused Teflon Bag Audit Task List

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

JEMRMS Maneuver for CREAM Transfer
EFU 7 Activation and Safing Verify
EFU 7 Capture Latch Close for Cloud-Aerosol Transport System for CREAM berthing
Venting System Activation – VEDD opening
EFU 2 Capture Latch Close
JEMRMS WS BUS Checkout

