
Bio-Monitor: The crew swapped out the garment and stowed the old garment. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way.  The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, ECG (Electrocardiogram), skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc.
GRIP: The crew performed two Grip sessions in the Supine position. This completes the 3rd and last GRIP session objectives for this mission. ESA’s Grip investigation tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects.  Results from this investigation may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments, support design and control of haptic interfaces to be used in challenging environments such as space, and provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.
Inertial Spreading: The crew configured the hardware in the Micro-Gravity Science Glovebox work Volume and completed the droplet dispensing ops for the nine test discs. Inertial Spreading and imbibition of a liquid drop through a porous surface (Inertial Spreading) observes a drop of water spreading over and through a sponge-like metal object. When water touches a sponge-like material such as dry soil, it penetrates microscopic holes too small to see; widening these holes makes the water disappear too quickly. Microgravity slows down this process, allowing use of larger holes for more detailed observations to create a benchmark for computer simulations.
Rodent Research-19 (RR-19): The crew initiated the first set of densitometer scans on subjects inside the exam box using the Life Science Glovebox (LSG). This study uses rodent models on the ISS to investigate the potential benefits of targeting the Myostatin (MSTN) and Activin signaling pathways to prevent skeletal muscle and bone loss during spaceflight and on the recovery of muscle and bone following return to Earth. This research could provide valuable preclinical data to support clinical trials for MSTN therapies for a wide range of conditions that affect muscle and bone health. Such research is particularly important for conditions that involve disuse muscle atrophy (muscle wasting due to immobility or lessened activity)—for example, patients recovering from hip fracture surgery, intensive care patients, and the elderly.
Systems:
Waste Hygiene Compartment Maintenance:  During the past few months, the ground teams and the crew have been troubleshooting WHC Pre-Treat Bad Quality Light (PTBQL) indicator light.  Today, the ISS crew removed the WHC Pre-Treat Tank and replaced it with a spare on-board. The crew also removed the existing WHC dose pump and replaced it with a spare.  Today’s remove and replace activity restored the WHC to nominal operations.
Mobile Support System:  Yesterday (GMT 344), the Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and commanded the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to release the Dragon Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF). Then they maneuvered it to grapple the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Payload and Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) and released SPDM from the Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF 2. Next, SPDM was positioned over the Dragon trunk to perform a survey of the external payloads using the SPDM Body cameras and the Dragon trunk cameras were checked out. Finally ROBO commanded the Mobile Transporter (MT) to translate from Worksite 2 to 6. MSS is now configured for the start of the SpX-19 cargo ops scheduled later today (GMT345).
Completed Task List Activities:

No Task List Activities completed

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Payload Operations Support

Thursday, 12/12 (GMT 346)
Payloads:


Bio-Monitor Wearable Doff and stow (CSA)
GRASP Seated Session #1 (ESA)
CBEF setup #2 and FPEF cable connect and VRU3 exchange (JAXA)
RR-19 Bone Densitometer Scans (NASA)
NR-Zero G oven sample install and removal (NASA)
NR Module 85 Tube retrieval and CS insert (NASA)
TangoLab-2 Card cube replace (NASA)
ISS HAM Pass (NASA)
Food Acceptability (NASA)
TangoLab-2 Card cube replace (NASA)
Standard measures Saliva setup (NASA)

Systems:

JEM Mesh Cover-Return Grille Cleaning 

Friday, 12/13 (GMT 347)
Payloads:


Bio-Monitor hardware stow (CSA)
GRASP Free Session (ESA)
RR-19 Water check and Access unit clean (NASA)
NR Zero-G oven sample insert and retrieve (NASA)
Food Acceptability (NASA)
RFID Ember1 Plugin (NASA)
ISS HAM (NASA)

Systems:

Dragon Cargo Transfer
Dragon LiOH Removal
CST Conference

Saturday, 12/14 (GMT 348) – Crew Off Duty
Payloads:


No Experiment activities

 Systems:

No systems activities currently scheduled

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


ODF update on iPad and Samsung laptops
Preparation of reports for Roscosmos website and social media
URAGAN. Observation and photography using photo equipment
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
GRIP setup in Supine position
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain
Bone Densitometer Quality Control Check
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank and Dose Pump Remove & Replace
Photo of a scuff mark left by the Active Docking Mechanism probe on the DC1 Passive Mechanism Receiving Cone
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain Part 2
Downlink docking cone internal surface photos via OCA
Bringing ODF up to date using Progress 74P delivered files
GRIP science performance in supine position
Progress 74P (DC1) priority and US cargo items transfers and IMS Ops
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. HAM Radio Session with Kursk and Ufa
Rodent Research Bone Scan and Anesthesia Recovery Session
Progress 74P (DC1) Priority and US Cargo Items Transfers and IMS Ops
Rodent Research Bone Densitometer Scan
GRIP science performance in supine position
Rodent Research Bone Scan and Anesthesia Recovery Session
Recording Greetings Video
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Rodent Research Bone Scan and Anesthesia Recovery Session
Replacement of СО filter in СО Gas Analyzer (ГЛ2106) and activation with warmup
Progress 74P (DC1) Cargo Transfers and IMS Ops
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config Columbus Setup
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Preparing SM СУБА High Gain Antenna [ОНА] Power Switching Units БСК-1В1 and БСК for replacement (Review radiogram and gather equipment).
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) in Columbus
Inertial Spreading Test Operations
Rodent Research Bone Densitometer Scan
IMS Delta File Prep
Rodent Research Bone Densitometer Scan
Moding СО gas analyzer (ГЛ2106) to OPERATION
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ [КОВ] for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Fill Part 3
Rodent Research Bone Scan and Anesthesia Recovery Session
СОЖ Maintenance. Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
GRIP partial stowage
Photography of Plume Impingement and Deposit Monitoring Unit [БКДО] position on MRM2 through SM window No.13
Bio-Monitor Wearables Change Out
MELFI 1 Ice Brick Insert 8
SM window No.13 – Closeout Ops
Glacier Desiccant Swap
MELFI 2 Ice Brick Insert 8
Bone Densitometer Quality Control Check
MELFI 3 Ice Brick Insert 8
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Crew Choice Event

 