12-10-2012December 10, 2012
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/10/12 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Underway: Week 4 of Increment 34 (three-person crew).  After wakeup, FE-1 Novitskiy performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection and also conducted the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM of a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture. FE-2 Tarelkin completed the daily reboots of the Russian laptops RS1 & RS2 and RSS1 & RSS2. CDR Ford performed regular maintenance on the JAXA MOST (Medaka Osteoclast [killifish]) AQH (Aquatic Habitat) Aquariums 1 & 2, testing their water quality using nitrate & nitrite test strips from the Lab MELFI-3 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 3) Dewar 4 to measure the concentration of ammonium, nitrate and nitrite in water samples from the WCU (Water Circulation Unit) and supplying fresh water to the WCU. The test strips were then returned to MELFI-3. Ford also completed another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.     [Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.] Novitskiy, part-time assisted by Tarelkin, had ~3 hrs for conducting an extensive periodic inventory/audit of equipment & tools in the RS (Russian Segment).    [To be continued tomorrow.] Evgeny later made preparations for the periodic inspection of SM windows #1 & #12, scheduled tomorrow, by reviewing necessary procedures in on-board training material. Oleg reconfigured the Kurs-P (passive) automated radar approach & docking system’s LF & HF cables in the SM to support vehicle dockings at the DC1 (-Y) port, a routine activity. After reviewing Robonaut procedures and instructional video, Kevin supported today’s activities with the first “human-like” robot in space, first setting up the Node-2 camcorder & MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) for Lab site coverage from the ground, then deploying and attaching the Robonaut Taskboard for today, installing Robonaut at the P2 seat track location in the Lab and cabling it in preparation for the subsequent powered/ground-commanded operations. Afterwards, the CDR powered the robot down. Its script left it in Stow Pose prior to disassembly. The Lab camcorder cabling was restored for analog downlink.    [For the remote-commanding from the ground, Ford prepared the Taskboard by positioning its Fluid Quick Disconnect Valve (BO1) tether so that Robonaut had unobstructed access to Toggle Valve (BO2) and Metering Valve (BO3), rotating BO2 to “1”, ensuring that BO3 was not up against a hard stop, rotating Needle Valve (BO4) clockwise until it stopped and rotating the Ball Valve (BO6) to Position 1.] Evgeny conducted the periodic checkout & performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.] After gathering the necessary equipment In the SM, Evgeny installed a BUAP antenna switching control box for the EKTS AFU (Integrated Command & Telemetry System Antenna Feeder Unit), part of the MBRL/PCE (Proximity Communications Equipment), then connected the BUAP and re-mated the BITS2-12 onboard measurement telemetry system which had to be disconnected. Kevin performed routine maintenance on the WRS (Water Recovery System) using the LFTP (Low Flow Transfer Pump) to transfer water from CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodine, #1066) to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) and offloading it, using a particulate filter. Later, the CWC-I was swapped with #1011 and still later with #1020.   [Estimated offload times (i.e., spacing between initiation & termination) were ~55 hrs, ~45 min, ~1:55 hrs, respectively.] Oleg had another 1h20m for unloading Progress M-17M/49P (no. 417) and transferring cargo to the ISS for stowage, logging moves in the IMS (Inventory Management System). With RS STTS communications configured for work in MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2), Novitskiy conducted another session with the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), activating the hardware with electromagnet and video camcorder and completing the experiment run, which he video-recorded with the SONY HVR-Z1J for subsequent downlink via RSPI.       [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in a magnetic field (trap), investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS (Russian Segment): condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.] FE-2 took on the daily routine job of servicing the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Tarelkin also completed the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Later, Evgeny set up the hardware for the Russian earth observation experiment TEKh-52 “Vizir” (Viewfinder) for another data take at SM window #6 and activated it for a recording run, followed by data downlink via RSPI high-speed data link and ground specialist tagup.     [For today’s tests, Tarelkin used easily identifiable earth targets for obtaining images which will then be processed by the ground for equipment alignment and precision characterization. Vizir uses the new SKPF-U hardware, a photo image coordinate reference system using ultrasound sensors, a NIKON D3X photo camera with AF300-800mm lens with PI emission platform for general target views, and the RSK1 T61p laptop with new software (Vers. 3.4), installed on 8/13.] The CDR again had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in his electronic Journals on the personal SSC (Station Support Computer).   [Required are three journaling sessions per week.] Before Presleep (~2:30pm EST), Kevin powers up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and started the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Kevin turns MPC routing off again.    [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.] The three crewmembers worked out on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1). Before the T2 workout, Kevin Ford set up and checked out the G1 video camera for it to record his session on the treadmill, meeting the regular 30-day requirement for biomechanical evaluation of the on-orbit crewmembers, and evaluation of the hardware status. Afterwards, Kevin stowed the video footage. Tasks listed for Evgeny & Oleg on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –More preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb),A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens and PI emission platform using the SKPF-U  to record target sites on the Earth surface, andA ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop. No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.