
Payloads:
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The crew gained access to the MSL furnace area, removed the Growth of Ternary Compound Semiconductors (GTCS) Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) and installed the Fabrication of Amorphous Metals in Space (FAMIS) C2 SCA. FAMIS studies the microstructure of composites of Bulk Metallic Glass (BMG) and tungsten spheres processed in microgravity. BMGs, also known as amorphous metals, have excellent mechanical properties such as wear resistance. Forming composites with tungsten and BMGs could create a new class of high-performance alloys and coatings, but the vast density difference between the two makes this challenging in Earth’s gravity. Results could support development of new-generation elements for gears and coatings for applications in space and on Earth.
Nanoracks Module-51: The second set of photo operations were performed for the experiments in Module-51. The experiments in Module-51 include plant growth, Haloarchea growth, and worm composting. NanoRacks Modules allow experimenters and students to perform extended on-orbit operations using space-proven hardware. Each individual module houses a unique experiment or set of experiments. Anything approved for transport to ISS can be incorporated into a module, representing any field of science.
Ryutai/Protein Crystallization Research Facility (PCRF): The crew relocated the three maintenance units to other cell tray positions, and took photos of the signal cable connections. This is part of the semi-annual maintenance for the PCRF. The PCRF is a JAXA sub rack facility which investigates protein crystal growth in microgravity. PCRF is housed in the Ryutai (fluid) Experiment Rack (ER), along with the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF), Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF), and the Image Processing Unit (IPU).
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) International Docking Adapter (IDA) Multi-Layer Insulation (MLI) Remove and Replace (R&R) and Bracket Installation: The crew began by removing the IDA MLI to facilitate the Bracket installation. The crew then installed a new design IDA MLI Blanket that is outfitted for integration of MLI retention Floating Brackets. This new design was installed around the entire circumference of the IDA docking ring primary structure internal cavities underneath the IDA MLI Blanket. The IDA converts the Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA) from the Shuttle-era Androgynous Peripheral Attachment System (APAS) docking system to a standardized docking system that allows automated docking of future vehicles to the US Segment of ISS.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the Cygnus NG-18 cargo vehicle. NG-18 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until the end of January before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.
IFM Cupola Window Scratch Pane Cleaning: The crew completed maintenance by cleaning the inboard surface of the installed Cupola Window Scratch Panes and the Acrylic Scratch Panes. The panes were carefully cleaned with a lens cloth and water, wiping gently in only one direction. The Cupola has seven windows that provide an observation and work area for the ISS crew giving visibility to support the control of the ISS remote manipulator system and general external viewing of Earth, celestial objects and visiting vehicles.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

COL-CC Prime MPLS Maintenance
PRO Basic Express Rack 10B Activation Commanding
SPDM Unstow
MSS Walkoff Maneuver
PRO MSRR Commanding
JEMRMS Activation

