
Ocular Health:  Virts performed his first (flight day 10) Ocular Health ultrasound and cardiac sessions.  Wilmore helped perform ultrasound scans on the eyes of Virts. The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. Cristoforetti helped Virts conduct a cardiac echo scan as part of the Ocular Health data collection. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines
Nanoracks Module 27:  Virts utilized the Plate Reader to scan NanoRacks Module-27 samples (3 Microplates) at 24 hour intervals for the third of five planned scan sessions. The crew retrieves data for downlink via NanoRacks Platform after every session.  NanoRacks-Module-27 compares the growth rates of microbes isolated from samples collected from ground-based public venues both in the microgravity environment of the ISS and in the lab at UC Davis. This study also characterizes the microbial communities found on surfaces aboard the ISS using culture-independent methods.
Circadian Rhythms:  Cristoforetti donned the Circadian Rhythms equipment and will wear it for 36 hours. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Nanoracks Centrifuge:  In preparation for the arrival of Fruit Fly Lab -1 (FFL-1) on SpaceX-5, Cristoforetti transferred files from Nanoracks Platform-2 to Nanoracks Platform-3 using an USB drive in order to reprogram the centrifuge speed controller. The FFL-1 observation units change the center of gravity of the centrifuge when installed. This necessitates a modification to the centrifuge speed in order to provide an accurate 1g simulated environment during the FFL-01 experiment.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) 3005 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Change Out Part 2: Wilmore and Cristoforetti finished replacing the failed FPS.  In today’s activity, the crew removed the failed FPS from the EMU and performed an inspection on the unit. Water was observed in the bore area of the FPS, however the amount was within normal limits seen in previous FPS maintenance activities. The crew also performed a spin test on the failed FPS which confirmed it as mechanically seized. Lastly, they installed and primed the new pump and reconfigured the EMU suit and Airlock.  The failed FPS will be returned to the ground via SpaceX-5 for analysis.  A full EMU 3005 return to service checkout is scheduled to occur tomorrow. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


PROBOY. Cable Installation and Connection
Installation of new RSE1 Laptop s/w version 4.2
Ultrasound Scanning
VIZIR. Experiment Ops
Ocular Health (OH) Blood Pressure Operations
OH – Ocular Health Blood Pressure Operations Assistance
EMU Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove and Repair
Installation of overlay sheets on FGB interior panels (406).
TV Conference with M. V. Lomonosov MGU Students (Ku + S-band)
Biolab – Standard Insert Removal from the compartment
Activation of Laptop RS1 to start verification of bus 1553 initialization on КЦП1
PROBOY. Cable Installation and Connection
ISS RS ППС-26 and ППС-31 Plug-in Audit (in parallel to monitoring parameters on laptop to verify 1553 bus initialization on КЦП1)
PAO Event
NANO – Update
Urine Transfer from EDV-U to WDS Tank 2 Using Compressor
Search for АСН-М hardware cable
MOD27 – Plate Reader Scan
Installation of air heater ВН1 at nominal location
End of verification of 1553 bus initialization on КЦП1, deactivation of Laptop RS1, log-file dump
OTKLIK. Hardware Check
Thermolab – Instrumentation Ops for Circadian Rhythms
Packing Fan Pump Separator removed from EMU 3005 for return on SpX-5
Cognition Experiment Ops [Differed]

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted


Nominal commanding
Battery reconditioning for 2B1 set  [In work]

