
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR):  Virts gathered hardware and tools then replaced the Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Avionics Package on the back of the CIR Optics Bench.  This completes the planned CIR maintenance and readies the facility for continuing the Flame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 experiment. 
 Nanoracks Module 27:  Virts utilized the Plate Reader to scan NanoRacks Module-27 samples (3 Microplates) at 24 hour intervals for the fourth of five planned scan sessions. The crew retrieved data for downlink via NanoRacks Platform after every session.  NanoRacks-Module-27 compares the growth rates of microbes isolated from samples collected from ground-based public venues both in the microgravity environment of the ISS and in the lab at UC Davis. This study also characterizes the microbial communities found on surfaces aboard the ISS using culture-independent methods.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3005 Return to Service:  Following the replacement of the EMU 3005 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) this week, Wilmore activated and configured the EMU to perform a full checkout. As part of today’s activities, he performed Radio Frequency (RF) communications checks with the ground on both the prime and alternate UHF radios, tested the suit’s fan, and conducted nominal and extended leakage tests at the maximum operating suit pressure. Once complete, he deconfigured and powered down the suit.
SpaceX-5 Dragon On-board Training:  All three USOS Crewmembers conducted proficiency training for Dragon rendezvous and capture. The lesson walks through the steps in the rendezvous procedures and provides representative Robotics Work Station and Portable Computer System screenshots for each step. In addition, the lesson provides an overview of the Dragon commands available to the crew via the Crew Command Panel. SpaceX-5 is scheduled to launch next week.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Regeneration of Micropurification unit (БМП) Ф1 cartridge (start)
Installation of overlay sheets on FGB interior panel (panel 408)
RSS1 laptop software installation to support СОТ data downlink via TDRSS
OBSTANOVKA. Download of Obstanovka P/L Data from БСПН (Payload Server) to RSS1 Laptop
EMU Tool Stowage following Fans Pump Separator (FPS) R&R 
Installation of overlay sheets on FGB interior panel (panel 408)
Test of Sigma SW Version 8.6.6 using СУДН data on RSK1 laptop
Study of cardiovascular system under graded physical load on VELO (assistance)
Atmosphere Control and Supply (ACS) – O2 High Pressure Bypass Configuration
EMU 3005 Return To Service (RTS).
CONTROL. Indicator-ISS P/L Mode Switchover
ГФИ-1. Charging battery for Relaksatsyia experiment
CARDOX – Experiment Review
МАТRESHKA-R. BUBBLE-DOSIMETER reading
CEVIS stabilizer check
БК БКВ СРВК-2М flush – start
OBT – Dragon Rendezvous and Berthing Procedures Review
Video equipment prep for PAO on USOS
ISS-MCC-M TV TV Interview for Rossia 24 TV Channel.(Ku+S-band)
Post-OBT conference on Dragon rendezvous and docking
ARED – cable arm rope R&R
CIR- video camera setup and Rack Doors open
CIR – Translate Optics Bench
MDCA-AVIONICS- Hardware Replacement
CIR – Translation of Optics Bench and Video Recording
RELAKSATSIYA. Parameter Adjustment
Photo/Video Recording Life on the Station
RELAKSATSIYA Observation / r/g 7413
OBT – Dragon Rendezvous and Berthing Procedures Review
MOD27 – Plate Reader Scan
URAGAN. Observations and Photography
Columbus rack stowage consolidation
БМП Ф1 Absorption Cartridge Regeneration (termination)

Completed Task List Items

WHC KTO Replace

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted


Nominal commanding
UHF Activation/Deactivation in support of EMU 3005 Checkout
Battery Reconditioning for Battery Set 2B1

