12-19-2010December 19, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/19/10 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Sunday – Crew rest day.   Ahead: Week 4 of Increment 26. >>>>Today 38 years ago (1972), Apollo 17 returned safely with CDR Gene Cernan, LMP Jack Schmitt & CMP Ron Evans, concluding America’s sixth and last lunar landing mission.<<<< The crew’s wake/sleep cycle has returned to “normal” (awake 1:00am-4:30pm EST). FE-2 Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Oleg will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.] CDR Kelly continued his current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy & Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 4th session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.] Also at wake-up, Scott performed another session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, his second day of the upcoming sleep shift sequence.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.] Kelly, Skripochka, Kaleri, Kondratyev, Nespoli & Coleman completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.] As part of the uborka house cleaning, Alex, Oleg & Dmitri conducted regular maintenance inspection & cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille and Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM (Service Module). Alex Kaleri completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.] Later, Oleg Skripochka performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM & FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode. CDR Kelly performed the periodic camera setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) with Sample 2. Exp-26 newcomers Cady, Paolo & Dmitri had 2.5 hrs of free time each for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it. After charging the SONY HVR-Z7E HD camcorder battery, the three Russian flight engineers used the camera for shooting a PAO video discussing their thoughts after viewing a Soyuz-delivered new Russian movie called “Yolki” (Christmas Trees), to be used by the movie makers.    [Producer and one of the movie directors is Timur Bekmambetov.] The “old” crew completed today’s physical workout regime on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2). Kondratyev received training on the TVIS by Skripochka as the latter was working out on the treadmill.     [New crewmembers always receive training from experienced crew on the use of the exercise equipment - one session for each apparatus.] At ~9:00am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events. FE-4, FE-5 & FE-6 had their post-arrival PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Paolo at ~10:00am, Dmitri at ~10:15am, Cady at ~11:00am. FE-5 & FE-6 also had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Paolo at ~11:35am, Cady at ~12:20pm. No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded for today. 