
Payloads:
EasyMotion:  After donning the EasyMotion Suit, the crew performed Treadmill 2 (T2) exercise science session.  Following the experiment session, the crew removed the suit and charged the experiment batteries.  The EasyMotion investigation uses whole body Electro-Myo-Stimulation (EMS) with a wearable body skin suit for an ISS crew member to perform pre- and postflight EMS-assisted exercises. EMS technology initiates spontaneous (involuntary) activation of global musculature (muscle, tendon, fascia) to be monitored (muscle tone/tension and stiffness) inflight using the non-invasive Myoton technology that is currently aboard the space station for the Myotones investigation.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids-4 (InSPACE-4):   The crew set the appropriate parameters and adjusted the camera field of view for experiment runs 89-90.  InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Light Ions Detector for Anomalous Long Term Effects in Astronauts (ALTEA) (LIDAL): The LIDAL hardware was placed in its EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) (EXPRESS) Rack 3 (ER3) locker 2 location to resume science gathering.  It was temporarily relocated to support the Columbus Water On-Off Valve-8 (WOOV-8) recovery activities.  The capability of ALTEA to measure the linear energy transfer (LET) of protons and helium and the kinetic energy of protons and heavy ions is to be upgraded by the addition of a new time of flight (TOF) system detector called LIDAL. LIDAL upgrades the ability of ALTEA to make measurements that can be converted, by dedicated software in real-time, into radiation risk coefficients – effectively enabling ALTEA to become the first ever dosimetric (risk meter) aboard the ISS.
Myotones: The crew performed skin marking on the designated experiment target areas, took measurements using the Myotones device, and performed ultrasound scans of the target areas using the Echo device.  The Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones) investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g. muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth, as well as for future space missions.
Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station (NutrISS): The crew answered an experiment questionnaire, and then performed a bioelectrical impedance analysis measurement experiment session.  Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. On the basis of this data, it is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss of crew members.
Plant Habitat Facility: To prepare for the next experiment (Plant Habitat-05), the crew replaced the CO2 scrubber and ethylene (CH2=CH2) scrubber systems.  They also replaced two CO2 bottles, and the inlet and outlet filters for the environmental control system.  The Advanced Plant Habitat (Plant Habitat) is a fully automated facility that is used to conduct plant bioscience research on the ISS. It occupies the lower half of the EXPRESS Rack and one powered International Subrack Interface Standard (ISIS) drawer, providing a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber.
Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (DREAMS):  Following the completion of the over-night session, the crew removed the DREAMS headband, transferred the data, and stowed the hardware.  Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep, or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance.  DREAMS is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the ISS.
Systems: 
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Air Filter and Wring Collector Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew R&Red the WHC Wring Collector and Air Filter as part of the WHC preventive maintenance replacement cycle. The Wring Collector is used in case any liquid gets downstream of either the solid waste collector or the pump separator, and needs to be replaced after one year. The WHC was unavailable for use during maintenance. 
IFM Filter and Ventilation Cleaning Activities: Today, the crew completed several IFM activities related to ventilation cleaning. The crew inspected and cleaned Node 3 HEPA and Charcoal Filters and Area Smoke Detectors using the Vacuum Cleaner. The Integrated HEPA and Charcoal Assembly scrubs volatile siloxanes from the air. The third activity was cleaning of the PMA1 Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Cone Screen at the PMA1/Node 1 Bulkhead. The IMV fan is used on the ISS to force airflow from one module to another through a series of ducting and control valves. Finally, crew completed inspection and cleaning of Node 2 HEPA and Charcoal Filters and Smoke Detectors.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PPS HIGH BETA OPERATIONS
Drain of EDV to BPA Using UTS
Initiate a Brine Processor Dewatering Cycle
Crew Dragon System Checkout
EHS Rad Detector Look Up Table Commanding
JEM MAXI File Uplink before next MAXI-SCHEDULE-UPDT
VDS EHDC survey of Soyuz before undock

