
53 Soyuz (53S) Launch: 53S launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome this morning with Anton Shkaplerov, Scott Tingle, and Norishige Kanai.  Docking to the Mini Research Module-1 (MRM-1) module is scheduled for 02:42 AM CST on December 19 with hatch opening at ~4:15 AM CST. 
SpaceX (SpX)-13 Capture and Berthing: SpX-13 rendezvous and capture were successfully completed today at 11:02 AM CST using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). The crew monitored Dragon’s approach from the Cupola Robotic Workstation. During capture the Latch End Effector (LEE) snare cable tension went above the expected value, and before resuming nominal operation the Robotics Ground Controllers commanded the LEE mechanism to reduce this tension to the expected range. Dragon was berthed at 7:30 AM CST by ground controllers.  Vestibule outfitting, vehicle ingress and removal of the center stack began following capture.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Robotic Workstation (RWS) High Definition (HD) Monitor Downlink Setup
Photo/TV Ghost Camera in Cupola on SSC power recording
Robotics Workstation (RWS) Dragon Configuration
Dragon R Bar Approach
Check Closure of SM window shutters 6,8,9,12,13,14 Note 6
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Dragon Capture
Node 2 to Dragon Pressurization and Leak Check Equipment Pregather
СОЖ maintenance. [СВО], [СГО], АСУ’s [СПКУ] counter, SM’s and FGB’s POTOK data dumps
Zebrafish Muscle2 Familiarization for sample fixation.
Node 2 to Dragon Pressurization and Leak Check
Dragon Vestibule Outfitting
Dragon Ingress
Node 2 Nadir Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Ground Strap Replacement and CPA Rotation
Collecting SpX-13 Air Samples Using АК-1М Sampler
Transfer Center Stack
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
Lighting Effects Sleep Log Entry – Subject

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Dragon Rendezvous/Capture/Berth
Nominal Commanding

