
SpaceX-5 Launch Status:  The static test fire scheduled yesterday was started, but aborted shortly after engine ignition.  SpaceX is currently evaluating any impacts to the schedule.
Robonaut:  Virts reviewed a Robonaut video in preparation for upcoming operations.  This was the first time motor power was applied to Robonaut following the addition of the legs and upgraded processors.  Crew unstowed and set up Robonaut in the US Lab, installing cables for power, motion stop, and Ethernet communications.  The ground teams deployed software and received telemetry from Robonaut. However, were unable to obtain the commanded leg movement that was planned for the day.  Ground teams are assessing a forward plan.  Robonaut is a dexterous humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, exhibit greater endurance than humans and react safely when bumped or interacted with in a way that was not expected.
Synchronized Position, Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) – Vertigo:  Cristoforetti performed a unit test, initialized SPHERES software, transferred data from the Vertigo hardware and downlinked files for ground review.  This activity was performed in preparation for the SPHERES Vertigo session scheduled for mid January 2015.   The SPHERES-Vertigo investigation uses free-flying satellites and is designed to demonstrate and test, in a complex environment, enhanced technologies and techniques related to visual inspection and navigation. This effort incorporates hardware and software that enables multiple SPHERES to construct three dimensional (3D) models of a target object. Additionally, this investigation explores how well the SPHERES free-flyers then perform relative navigation solely by reference to these 3D models.
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Status:  Wilmore worked with ground teams to configure the JEMAL and has removed the Cyclops launcher platform from the JEMAL slide table.  After Cyclops removal, crew installed the Small Fine Arm Airlock Attachment Mechanism (SAM) to the slide table and the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) in preparation for future deployments.  In addition, the crew has performed Cyclops troubleshooting on suspect airlock capture mechanism limit switches.  
Sabatier Accumulator Purge:  Today the crew performed a manual purge of the Sabatier accumulator in preparation for the Sabatier compressor change out planned for tomorrow.  The crew collected a small amount of water from the purge that will be returned to the ground to support the laminar flow element blockage investigation.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


XF305 Camcorder Settings Adjustment
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
CYCLOPS – Experiment Ops
JEM AL Micro Switch Failure Troubleshooting
Airlock Attachment Mechanism (SAM) Installation
JEM Airlock -Releasing Capture Mechanism
Installation of Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP)
JEMAL – MPEP Capture
JEM Airlock Slide Table Retraction from JPM Side
ROBONAUT – Experiment Procedure Review and Video Viewing
Regeneration of БМП Ф1 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
R2 – Robonaut Unstow and Powerup 
R2-BACKPACK – Power Cycling
Robonaut Mobility Watch
R2 – Robonaut Hardware Power Down and Stowage
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) for Electron from EDV-SV for АСУ
Installation of overlay sheets on FGB interior panels & disinfectant treatment
SEISMOPROGNOZ. Seismoprognoz Application Replacement
HMS Visual Testing Activity
Photography of SM Interior Panels (322,335)
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Vision Questionnaire
BIOCARD. Experiment Ops
Health Maintenance System (HMS):  Tonometry Test
OTKLIK. Hardware Check / r/g 7409
HMS Visual Testing Activity
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Vision Questionnaire
КЦП1 1553 Bus Initialization Check – preparation
Video for Roscosmos TV Studio
HRF- Sample collection setup
SPHERES Vertigo Data Download
SPHERES Vertigo Data Transfer from one computer to another
ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position Verification
BRI Cleaning. (as necessary)
СТТС Configuration for MRM1
Replacement of Н1 replaceable Unit in MRM1 ГК1 fluid loop
PAO Event
ПФ1, ПФ2 Dust Filter Replacement and В1, В2 Fan Grille Cleaning in DC1.
Restore Nominal Comm Configuration
БМП Ф1 Absorption Cartridge Regeneration (termination)

Completed Task List Items

CHeCS Rack Stowage Reconfig Part 1 [In work]

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Nominal commanding
JEMAL configuration in support of Cyclops removal

