
Rodent Research-19 (RR-19): The crew performed RR-19 Rodent transfers from the Dragon capsule into the Habitats. Water flow was verified and foodbars were installed. The crew then stowed the Rodent Transporters. This study uses rodent models on the ISS to investigate the potential benefits of targeting the myostatin (MSTN) and activin signaling pathways to prevent skeletal muscle and bone loss during spaceflight and on the recovery of muscle and bone following return to Earth. This research could provide valuable preclinical data to support clinical trials for MSTN therapies for a wide range of conditions that affect muscle and bone health. Such research is particularly important for conditions that involve disuse muscle atrophy (muscle wasting due to immobility or lessened activity)—for example, patients recovering from hip fracture surgery, intensive care patients, and the elderly. 
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The crew successfully inserted Tissue Cassettes samples into the BioFabrication Facility. The ground initiated printing and the crew then removed samples, inserted the cleaning syringes into the facility and placed the printed samples intothe Advanced Space Experiment Processor (ADSEP), where it will be conditioned and later returned to ground for analysis. The BFF is dedicated to manufacturing human organs and tissues in space, primarily for use by patients on Earth. Besides printing tissue, the BFF also can help maintain the health of deep space exploration crews by producing food and personalized pharmaceuticals on demand. 
Rotifer-B1: The crew installed the Kubik 6 Interface Plate and inserted the Experiment Containers into Kubik 6 in preparation for Rotifer-B1 operations. The Rotifer-B1 investigation aims to explore the effects that spaceflight has on both the metabolism and genomic/genetic level of the bdelloid rotifer Adineta vaga. This is achieved by culturing rotifers in Kubik, an on-orbit incubator facility. After exposing rotifers to space conditions inside the ISS, samples are frozen and returned to Earth for postflight analyses. 
Bio-Monitor: The crew replaced the battery in the Bio-Monitor hardware and performed the wearable garment hardware setup in preparation for a 48hr data gathering session. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way.  The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, ECG (Electrocardiogram), skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc. 
GRIP: The crew performed the 2nd GRIP science session in the seated position. ESA’s Grip investigation tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects.  Results from this investigation may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments, support design and control of haptic interfaces to be used in challenging environments such as space, and provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.
ICE Cubes Facility: The crew removed currently installed ICE Cubes from the ICE Cubes Facility and installed newly arrived Experiment Cubes. The International Commercial Experiment Cubes (ICE Cubes) Facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration or educational objectives. During flight, users are able to have near real-time telemetry and telecommanding capabilities with the Experiment Cube from any location with an internet connection. The ICE Cubes service provides fast and direct access to the ISS for any country, any institute or any entity. 
Inertial Spreading: The crew installed the Inertial Spreading hardware in the Micro-Gravity Science Glovebox work volume in preparation for upcoming Experiment operations. Inertial Spreading and Imbibition of a Liquid Drop through a Porous Surface (Inertial Spreading) observes a drop of water spreading over and through a sponge-like metal object. When water touches a sponge-like material such as dry soil, it penetrates microscopic holes too small to see; widening these holes makes the water disappear too quickly. Microgravity slows down this process, allowing use of larger holes for more detailed observations to create a benchmark for computer simulations.
Systems:
JEM Module Outfitting: Today, the ISS crew installed the Mission Data Recorder (MDR) to JPM1O6 Closeout Panel and also connected the Mission Data Recorder Power Cable, Mission Data Recorder LAN Cable, Mission Data Recorder HRDL Cable and JEM HRMS Cable.
Completed Task List Activities:

EVA LLB Ops Term
BD-CALIBRATE QC-1

Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Payload Operations Support

Wednesday, 12/11 (GMT 345)
Payloads:


Bio-Monitor Wearable change-out (CSA)
GRIP Supine Session #3 (ESA)
RR-19 Bone Densitometer scans (NASA)
Inertial Spreading Payload Ops (NASA)
Bone Densitometer Quality Control check (NASA)

Systems:

Dragon Emergency OBT Debrief Conference
Regenerative ECLSS Tank Operations

Thursday, 12/12 (GMT 346)
Payloads:


Bio-Monitor Wearable Doff and stow (CSA)
GRASP Seated Session #1 (ESA)
CBEF setup #2 and FPEF cable connect and VRU3 exchange (JAXA)
RR-19 Bone Densitometer Scans (NASA)
NR-Zero G oven sample install and removal (NASA)
NR Module 85 Tube retrieval and CS insert (NASA)
TangoLab-2 Card cube replace (NASA)
ISS HAM Pass (NASA)
Food Acceptability (NASA)
TangoLab-2 Card cube replace (NASA)
Standard measures Saliva setup (NASA)

Systems:

JEM Mesh Cover-Return Grille Cleaning

Friday, 12/13 (GMT 347)
Payloads:


Bio-Monitor hardware stow (CSA)
GRASP Free Session (ESA)
RR-19 Water check and Access unit clean (NASA)
NR Zero-G oven sample insert and retrieve (NASA)
Food Acceptability (NASA)
RFID Ember1 Plugin (NASA)
ISS HAM (NASA)

Systems:

Dragon Cargo Transfer
Dragon LiOH Removal
CST Conference

Today’s Planned Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Rotifer-B1 sample transfer
Switch of Portable Power Supply during Rotifer-B1 experiment
Preparation of reports for Roscosmos website and social media
Video Recording of Greetings
URAGAN. Observation and Photography
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Daily Planning Conference
BioFabrication Facility Tissue Print With Cells Install
Installation of Cubes #6 in the ICE Cubes Facility
[СТТС] comm assets switchover to a backup set
VHF2d test from SM using backup СТТС sets. Return to nominal configuration
BFF MERLIN Sample Removal
BioFabrication Facility MELFI Sample Retrieve
COSMOCARD. Preparing for and Starting 24-hr ECG Recording
BioFabrication Facility MELFI Sample Retrieve
BioFabrication Facility Tissue Print With Cells Install
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
Progress 74P (DC1) Priority and US Cargo Items Transfers and IMS Ops
HISUI Mission Data Recorder Installation
Replacement of БИТС2-12 system devices ТА415М (БС1) and ЮА127В (БПИТ2)
BioFabrication Facility MELFI Sample Retrieve
Bio-Monitor Data Unit Battery Replacement And Synchronization Using Controller
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
Bio-Monitor Wearables Setup
GRIP science performance in seated position
Bone Densitometer Calibration and Quality Control Check
Inertial Spreading Hardware Setup
On MCC GO Purging Elektron-VM Liquid Unit (БЖ) after Shutdown
СОЖ Maintenance
Bone Densitometer Calibration and Quality Control Check
ASEPTIC. Hardware Transfer from Progress 443 to MRM1
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Gas Bottle Unit (GBU) valve closing
Rodent Research Animal Transfer 1
Water Recovery Management (WRM) EDV to WPA Wastewater Tank Transfer Initiation
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
MATRYOSHKA-R. Monitoring Tritel Readings
STRUKTURA.  Luch-2 Hardware Transfer from Progress 443
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Waste Water Bag (WWB) Change-out.
STRUKTURA.  Process activation and setup for exposure.
GRIP science performance in seated position
STRUKTURA.  Photography
Water Recovery Management (WRM) EDV to WPA Wastewater Tank Transfer Termination
Preventive Maintenance of pressure sealing mechanisms of DC1 (АСП) hatch cover and Progress 443 [ACA] hatch cover
SEPARATION. Mixing in the [СРВ-У-РС] urine circulation loop.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection
МСК-2. Начало зарядки аккумулятора доставки
Progress 443 (DC1) Priority and US Cargo Items Transfers and IMS Ops
BioFabrication Facility Cleaning Syringe Install
JEM Common Gas Support Equipment (CGSE) Lower CO2 Gas Supply Start
БД-2 Belt Status Check
BioFabrication Facility Glacier Sample Retrieve
BioFabrication Facility Tissue Cassette Removal
Kubik 5 and 6 setup re-adjustment for Rotifer B1
ISS Experience Hardware Stow
Kubik Interface Plate installation
On-Board Training (OBT) Dragon Emergency Review
Rodent Research Animal Transfer 2
Private Medical Conference (PMC)
Rodent Research Polar Sample Removal
IMS Delta File Prep
Retrieval of Rotifer-B1 hardware from MERLIN
Rotifer-B1 Experiment Container installation
PR photo shooting for Rotifer-B1
MELFI 1 Ice Brick Insert 7
MELFI 2 Ice Brick Insert 7
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) Fill
MELFI 3 Ice Brick Insert 7

 