
Lighting Effects Meter Reading: The crew set up and configured the Light Meter hardware and took readings in the Node 1 and Crew Quarters (CQ). The Node 1 light is the legacy General Luminaire Assembly (GLA), while the CQ light has been upgraded to the newly installed Solid State Lighting Assemblies (SSLAs). The Lighting Effects experiment aims to better quantify and qualify how lighting can effect habitability of spacecraft. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. The investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights. 
Sarcolab-3: Over the next four days (setup, two days of operations, tear-down), the crew will perform the second session (Flight Day 30-60 timeframe) of the joint-NASA-ESA-Russia Sarcolab experiment. Today, the crew deployed and configured the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) in Columbus. Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus, or calf muscle, where it joins the Achilles tendon which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight and are analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Japanese-Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) Release: Using the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), ground controllers grappled the J-SSOD from the Slide Table and maneuvered it to the deployment position. The crew successfully commanded the deploy of the satellite, then ground controllers returned the deployer back to the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) on the slide table. J-SSOD #5 contains one Cubesat, STARS-C(2U) which will conduct a technical demonstration of a tether extending system using a mother and daughter satellite. J-SSOD #5 will be removed and J-SSOD #6 will be installed on Thursday, December 22.
NanoRacks modules 63 and 72 (CubeRider) Status: On Friday, the crew installed the two modules into the NanoRacks Platform-1 facility. Ground teams did not receive telemetry from Module 72, however they did receive data from Module 63 (a radiation-tolerant computer). Ground controllers performed a power cycle of CubeRider, but were unable to recover. The Payload Developer is working on further troubleshooting steps, including possibly reseating the connections. CubeRider is an Australian educational module utilizing a Raspberry Pi, internal camera, sensors that monitors internal environment variables, some radiation, ISS dynamics and movement, and runs computer code written by 9th and 10th graders.
Camera Light Pan & Tilt Assembly (CLPA) Operations: Robotics ground controllers are in the process of relocating the failed Boom B CLPA from the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the wedge interface on the Mobile Transporter Relay Assembly (MTRA). This activity is advance of the HTV-6 battery EVAs, during which the CLPA will be swapped for a new unit at that location. This will allow the SSRMS to install the new CLPA in the future.
SSRMS Troubleshooting: On Saturday, Robotics ground controllers resumed troubleshooting of the anomaly (Aborted SSRMS and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Transitions to Operational Due to Binary Data Transfer (BDT) Load Fail), focusing on testing the current power configuration where SSRMS is based on Mobile Base System (MBS). After releasing Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF), the SSRMS was tested in a variety of power configurations with Latch End Effector (LEE) B unloaded. Tests consisted of SSRMS power cycle on both strings commanded on Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Local Bus A and B while both SSRMS payload power feed channels were on and all power up sequences completed nominally. ROBOs then maneuvered SSRMS to grapple SPDM. When SPDM was based on SSRMS (based on MBS PDGF1) but still grappled to Lab PDGF, tests were performed where all SPDM units were powered on with multiple power configurations (Prime and Redundant, MSS LB A and B). As no anomalies occurred throughout the troubleshooting, SPDM LEE released Lab PDGF and SSRMS holding SPDM and SPDM Arm2 was configured for translation. Finally, Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite #5 (WS5) to WS2, in position for today’s SSRMS CLPA operations and Battery R&R operations later this month. 
On Board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Simulation: All crew members, with support from ground teams, completed a training exercise and completed the following objectives:

Practiced ISS emergency response with crew and ground roles based on information provided by simulator displays.
Physically translated through ISS to the appropriate response locations to visualize the use of Station equipment and interfaces.
Practiced procedure execution and associated decision making based on cues provided by simulator.
Practiced communication and coordination with Houston and Moscow Control Centers as required for a given emergency scenario.

Upon completion of the training session, the crew and ground teams completed a debrief to discuss results. 
H-2 Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Cargo Operations: The crew has completed ~25.5 hours of cargo transfer. There are ~10 hours of transfer remaining to be completed.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Measuring Hematocrit Number.
Hematocrit equipment stowage
Personal CO2 Monitor iPad Application Restart
ВКС Laptops Antivirus software checkout
Fine Motor Skills Experiment Test – Subject
Fluids Integrated Rack Hardware Gather
XF305 Camcorder Setup
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace(ELF) Cartridge exchange
HRF Generic Urine Collection Male – Subject
Human Research Facility Ultrasound 2 set up and power on
KOSMOKARD. Closeout
MARES Ankle Shaving Preparation
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion Operations
MARES Ultrasound Session Assistance
Recharging Samsung tablet in 49S
MARES Ultrasound session
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) /Group Combustion Module (GCM) Component Deactivation
Recharging Samsung tablet in 48S
FGB-ПАНЕЛИ-VIEW
Ultrasound 2 Guided Data Export
MARES subject electrodes equipment and start of Crew Guided Procedure
MARES subject electrodes equipment assistance
Inspection and photo RS windows
Fluids Integrated Rack Session Review
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
Fluids Integrated Rack Hardware Replacement
Replacement of ИК0501 CO2 filter unit (БФ)
СТТС configuration for MRM2 for PL
KULONOVSKIY KRISTAL. Performing experiment
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
HRF Generic Urine Collection Stow
СТТС reconfiguration in MRM2
KULONOVSKIY KRISTAL. Video copy & downlink
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
Personal CO2 Monitor Power Cycle
Combustion Integrated Rack Optics Bench Translation Out
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – ESA Nutritional Assessment
MARES and Laptop Power OFF
Human Research Facility Ultrasound 2 power off and stowage
Recharging Samsung tablet in 49S – end
Filling ЕДВ (KOВ) for Elektron
Recharging Samsung tablet in 48S – end
Emergency egress drill
Combustion Integrated Rack Optics Bench Configuration 1
СОЖ maintenance
Delta file prep
HTV Cargo Operations Conference
CIR Rail Inspect
Combustion Integrated Rack Package Installation
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
КОНТЕНТ. Выполнение эксперимента
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
Treadmill 2 (T2) Exercise Video Equipment Stow
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment Operations Overview
Personal CO2 Monitor Power Cycle

Completed Task List Items

360 CAM checkout
Dosimeter secure
EVA 3006 comm SW mark
Everywear patch downlink
Galley h/w gather
Handover process questions
VEG03 pillow water
CCF H/W consolidate
CDL Holter audit
CTB1341 content ID
Emergency Kit create
EVA ECWS OBT
FROST ice pack insert
PWD RS food check
SSC SRVR1 survey

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

J-SSOD Deploy
CLPA Removal

