
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): To address a boot-up issue which was first seen in mid-November, the crew gained access to the CAL interior components and exchanged the Solid-State Drive (SSD) on the Central Processing Unit (CPU) card.  This should allow the CAL to resume nominal operations and science collection.  CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL):  As a continuation of the FSL troubleshooting efforts, the crew installed jumpers in the P101 power connector to support a checkout of the DC/DC voltage regulation in the rack.  The jumpers allow the bypass of a known bad component to help determine the root cause of the rack issues.  FSL is a multiuser facility designed by ESA for conducting fluid physics research in microgravity. It can be operated as a fully automatic or semiautomatic facility and can be controlled onboard by the ISS crew or from the ground in telescience mode.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids-4 (InSPACE-4):   The crew set the appropriate parameters and adjusted the camera field of view for experiment runs 91-92.  InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
ISS HAM Pass: The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with Technisches Bildungszentrum Mitte, Bremen, Germany, and Carl Prueter Oberschule.  Some of the questions asked by the students included how trash is disposed of on the ISS, which laws apply to the ISS, and how the moon and stars look when viewed from this ISS compared to when viewed from the Earth.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents, and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering, and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Manufacturing Device (ManD):  The crew accessed the interior print volume, removed and stowed the zero-degree materials test print, and cleaned the extruder head.  ManD enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives.  Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the ManD printer that is installed into an ExPRESS Rack locker location.  ManD is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Payload Network Attached Storage (PL NAS): The crew verified the PL NAS was powered off, then exchanged a failed hard drive in the system.  The Payload NAS is a file server with 5 hard drive bays that provides a total of 20 terabytes of raw disk space when used with 4 terabyte hard drives.  Among other capabilities, the PL NAS supports user file transfers from their machine via web browser and allows onboard ISS systems to access a shared folder location on the NAS.
Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (DREAMS):  Following the completion of the over-night session, the crew removed the DREAMS headband, transferred the data, and stowed the hardware.  Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep, or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance.  DREAMS is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the ISS.
Touching Surfaces: The crew performed a periodic touching of the Touch Arrays which are deployed in five different locations in the US segment of ISS.  Previous space research conducted during short-term flight experiments and long-term environmental monitoring on board orbiting space stations (such as MIR or the ISS) suggests that the relationship between humans and microbes is altered in the crewed habitat in space.  This interdisciplinary project Touching Surfaces aims to investigate novel, laser-structured antimicrobial surfaces onboard the ISS.  The realistic testing of the tailor-made nanostructured antimicrobial surface in space allows for the determination of the most suitable design for antimicrobial surfaces for terrestrial applications such as public transportation and clinical settings, as well as future human space mission and habitation design.
Vascular Aging: As a continuation of the Vascular Aging investigation, the crew performed ultrasound scans, blood pressure measurements, and set up for later glucose testing.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems: 
Dragon SpX-24 Arrival Preparations: Today the crew completed activities in preparation for SpX-24 arrival at ISS next week. They first relocated Station Support Computers (SSCs) from JEM and Node 2 into Cupola, which will be used in support of monitoring tools required for SpX-24 docking. Crew set up and checked out crew monitoring tools required for US docking Visiting Vehicles, including vehicle-specific and Rendezvous and Proximity Operations Program (RPOP) software, within the Cupola Robotics Workstation (RWS). The crew then shut down the software used to monitor Dragon free flight operations and disconnected the hardware from the SSCs.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: The crew completed the THC IMV Flow Measurement Survey today using the Velocicalc device and set of measurement aids to measure the air flow exiting outlets and entering inlets throughout the USOS modules. In addition to flow rate measurements, inspections will be performed in selected locations. This activity is to support monitoring of the health of the ISS IMV system.
Columbus Portable Workstation (PWS) Activities: Crewmembers performed activities to replace the T61p Laptop shell for the Columbus PWS. They uninstalled the failed COL PWS1 laptop and removed the hard drive, and then installed that same hard drive into the new PWS1 laptop shell and connected power and data. Next, crew performed a BIOS setup of the T61p for initial PWS boot in order to comply with the PWS software and Columbus Data Management System (DMS) software. Lastly, the crew activated PWS1 in Columbus for executing Columbus Laptop Software (CLSW).
Completed Task List Activities:

None 

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PPS HIGH BETA OPERATIONS
BLB file uplink and transfer
THC IMV Flow Measurement Survey
Drain of EDV to BPA Using UTS
Initiate a Brine Processor Dewatering Cycle
PRO MSRR Deactivation Commanding

