
Human Research Facility (HRF)-2 Resupply:  Kopra restocked the HRF supply kits in the HRF2 rack in the Columbus module and removed expired limited life items.  He then took photographs of the kits for downlink.
 
Fine Motor Skills:  Newly arrived ISS crewmembers Kopra and Peake each completed a session of the Fine Motor Skills experiment today.  During the experiment they performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
 
Space Headaches:   Peake completed another Daily Space Headaches questionnaires as part of his week-long series.  The daily questionnaires are only scheduled immediately after arrival of a new crewmember to the ISS.  Weekly questionnaires will be completed in subsequent weeks.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
NanoRacks Module Installations:  Installation of the NanoRacks modules that arrived on the Orbital ATK-4 in a NanoRacks Platform-2 locker in the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) has been postponed due to issues experienced overnight with responses received from ground commands sent to the hardware.
 
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review:  With the arrival of the 45S crew, all 6 crew members discussed priorities in the event of an emergency response and how to achieve safety of the crew as well as safe configuration of the ISS. Topics covered included crew actions during emergency retreat in the Soyuz, ISS Commander responsibilities, and communication and coordination among crew members and with ground teams.
 
Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, Kopra unpacked cargo that arrived on the Cygnus vehicle.  Additional cargo operations with all three USOS crewmembers are scheduled for tomorrow.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

ОСТ – Hardware setup
WRS – recycling system tank fill
FINEMOTR- experiment test
On MCC Go Progress 428 (DC1) СрПК Section 2 fill with N2
ISS crew adaptation
ОСТ – eye scan
IDENTIFIKATSYA. ИМУ-Ц linear acceleration meter measurements data copy to laptop
BIOSIGNAL. CRYOGEM-03 thermostat activation to +29 deg С
ОСТ – hardware stow
Elektron БЖ liquid tank repress
Crew adaptation and familiarization
Exercise Hardware familiarization
EVA – toothbrush state photography and stowage
ER6-DVD- SW install
Review of crew roles and responsibilities in contingencies
СОЖ Maintenance
CMS – Т2 – Glenn harness configuration
ОВТ – CMO – onboard computer training
WRS – recycling system tank fill
NANO – modules install  [Aborted]
WRS – water samples analysis
Crew prep for PAO
REGENERATSYA-1. Hardware relocation and placement
HRF2- hardware setup for experiment
REGENERATSYA -1. Photography at hardware location
ОВТ – CMO – onboard computer training
BIOSIGNAL. Hardware transfer from Soyuz
POIC – camcorder setup and video shooting
BIOSIGNAL. Photography
BIOSIGNAL. Hardware placement in CRYOGEM -03 at +29 deg. C.
CSA-CP check out
Video hardware stow post ARED Exercise video
On MCC Go Local temperature commutator (ТА251М1Б) #1417726325 and ROM #1417726934 (СМ1РО_3_314_1, bag 353-8 (00037141R) install in  Soyuz 719 orbital module
ER6- SW install
Fundoscope examination prep (eye drops for pupil dilation)
HMS – food questionnaire entry
Crew adaptation and familiarization
Hardware setup for Fundoscope examination
Crew adaptation and familiarization
Fundoscope – eye test
Hardware stow post Fundoscope examination
SHD- questionnaire entry
ER6- experiment close-out ops
TOCA – data recording
POIC – video recording d/l
Soyuz 719 transfers with IMS update
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
Installation of inserts to ease opening of SM interior panel latches (Unstow Элементы конструкции (Structural Elements) kit (004890R), ФГБ1ПГО_4_427_1, СТВ No.1112 (004106J)

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were competed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal Commanding

 
