
Payloads:
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): The crew completed two Robotic On-Board Trainer (ROBoT) research sessions for BCM. The Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (Behavioral Core Measures) experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight, and evaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the original activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crew members to complete either individual or crew telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember who has spent months in weightlessness can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids-4 (InSPACE-4): The crew set the appropriate parameters and adjusted the camera field of view for experiment runs 86-88.  InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): The crew performed an inspection of JWRS interface cable 4 and then reconnected it.  JWRS is a pilot-scale system capable of generating 1 liter per day of potable water from urine. In the past on crewed spacecraft, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard.  For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor.  Demonstration of the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Manufacturing Device (ManD):  The crew accessed the interior print volume, removed/stowed the printed item, and cleaned the extruder head.  ManD enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives.  Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the ManD printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. ManD can produce parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Hight Definition monitor troubleshooting: In response to HD monitor issues seen on GMT 328, the crew inspected the associated cable connectors and used a different connector port.  MSG is a rack-level payload facility located in the U.S. Laboratory module on the ISS. MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen, and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present. MSG is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (DREAMS): Following the activity replan earlier in the week, the crew set up the Dreams Dry-EEG Headband system just before sleep. Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep, or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance. The Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (Dreams) is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the ISS.
Vascular Aging: The crew concluded 13 hours of blood pressure monitoring associated with the Vascular Aging investigation. Emerging data points towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems: 
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The crew set up a drain of the installed Recycle Tank to an EDV, after which the drain was performed by the ground using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). The drain could not be performed to BPA today due to BPA operation suspension after an Adlink Mini-PC error during a software update; so, the brine was transferred to an EDV. After ground commanding of the UTS was completed, the crew then terminated the drain. The filled EDV will be pumped into the BPA within the next few days. The crew will then reposition the fill/drain valve to fill, swap the Offload EDV, and configure the UPA Fill Drain Valve for UPA processing.
Columbus Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Water On/Off Valve 8 (WOOV8) Troubleshooting: Today, the crew completed troubleshooting for the COL WOOV8 Removal & Replacement (R&R). The previous WOOV8 R&R activity could not be completed due to the bad orientation of the spare item electrical connectors and master key. The wrong positioning of the correspondent system connectors impacted the ExPRESS Rack-3 (ER-3) tilting up. The Spare WOOV8 was left installed without power, and data connections with the system connectors secured in place but not connected. The purpose of today’s activity is to remove the installed WOOV8, perform electrical connectors and master key re-clocking, and re-install the WOOV8 with its original insulation cover. The COL ER-3 was rotated down in preparation for this activity.
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) and EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) Prep Activities: The crew continued working on post-EVA and EMU prep activities today. The crew completed an EMU Resize in preparation for EMU components returning on SpX-24. EMUs also underwent cooling loop maintenance scrubs to complete ionic and particulate filtering of the EMU and Airlock cooling water loops, followed by EMU iodination and deconfiguration. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PPS HIGH BETA OPERATIONS
PTCS PMA3 Heater Test
ACS HP Oxygen Valve Open
UHF 1 Activation
DCCU configuration
ACS HP Oxygen Valve Close
UHF 1 Deactivation
THC CCAA Temperature Setpoint Change

