
SpaceX-5 Launch Status:  SpaceX-5 launch has been delayed until January 6, 2015.  All of the preparatory activities to support SpaceX-5 berth are being replanned.
Biolab:  Wilmore and Cristoforetti inspected and performed troubleshooting for the Biolab Handling Mechanism (HM) incubator access door.  The door slot was checked for potential debris and closeout pictures were taken. Additional troubleshoot is being planned by ground teams. The Biolab is scheduled to support the Triplelux B experiment arriving on SpaceX-5. 
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR):  Virts removed CIR alignment guides in preparation for the next Flame Extinguishment Experiment-2 (FLEX-2) binary droplet test session.   FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Alloy Semiconductor:  Cristoforetti removed the processed Alloy Semiconductor samples from the Gradient Heating Furnace (GHF) Sample Cartridge Automatic Exchange Mechanism (SCAM) holder. The cartridges will be returned on SpaceX-5. This is the final Alloy Semiconductor session planned for Increment 42. The Alloy Semiconductor investigation aims to develop a clear understanding of how semiconductor materials grow and crystallize in microgravity. The materials studied are also known to be useful as devices which convert heat into electricity (thermoelectrics). These studies may ultimately shed light on how higher quality crystals may be derived from other materials or incorporated into other devices such as solar cells.
Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS):  Cristoforetti removed the healthy Oxigraf Oxygen sensor from inside the failed Portable PFS Flight Module Flight Module 1 (FM1) unit and installed the Oxigraf Oxygen sensor in PFS FM2.   The failed sensor removed from FM2 was installed in FM1. The failed FM1 is scheduled for return on SpaceX-5 for evaluation by ground teams.  This action restores PPFS capability in preparation for support the first Airway Monitoring experiment session.  PPFS is a part of NASA’s Human Research Facility (HRF) and supports a wide range of respiratory and cardiovascular measurements.
Sabatier Compressor Change Out:  Ground teams stood down on Sabatier operations on Friday, 12 December due to a lack of flow in the reactor.  Today, Virts completed change out of the Sabatier compressor.  Ground teams will reactivate the Sabatier, but expect that the laminar flowmeter may also need to be changed out in order to regain functionality.  Originally developed by Nobel Prize-winning French chemist Paul Sabatier in the early 1900s, the system uses a catalyst that reacts with carbon dioxide and hydrogen, both byproducts of current life-support systems onboard the ISS in order to produce drinkable water.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


HRF Urine Sample Collection and MELFI Insertion
Regeneration of БМП Ф2 Micropurification Cartridge (start)
PROBOY. Activity with puncture imitator
Life On The Station Photo and Video
CIR – Alignment Guide Removal
WHC Fill
ALLOY – Cartridge Removal
Video downlink form COL and JEM for troubleshooting 
SPHERES – USB stow
Unpacking tools and components for BLB-HM-DOOR-CLEAN ops
Cycle coder COL AVN443 HD to assist ground operators in troubleshooting
OCT Exam
NAPOR-miniРСА. БЗУ-М block reset.
VISIR. Experiment Ops.
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Troubleshooting for the access door to Biolab processing mechanism incubator.
GLACIER4- replacement of old covers with new
Installation of overlay sheets on FGB interior panels (pan. 105).
Camera installation for image feed to RWS Monitor 3 in LAB [Deferred]
Connect DCP power in Lab, so that the monitor image can be used for calibration by the ground [Deferred]
Review and gather equipment for checkout of CAN-interface cables between Payload Interface Monitoring Unit (БКИПН) (ТВМ1-Н) and Master Clock Unit БСВ-М1.
[СBО] hardware audit / r/g 7488
MERLIN3 – Desiccant Replacement [Deferred]
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. Hardware Activation and Checkout / r/g 7489
Installation of overlay sheets on FGB interior panels (pan.207) – Fit check, adjustment, preliminary steps. Dragon Transfers Conference [Deferred]
PPFS – OXIGRAF – R&R
IFM. Sabatier Compressor R&R.
Inventory and Stowage conference
PPFS – OXIGRAF – R&R 2
Installation of overlay sheets on FGB interior panels (pan.207) – first disinfectant treatment with Fungistat.
PPFS – OXIGRAF – R&R 3
Fundoscope – vision exam
ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. Equipment deactivation and closeout ops / r/g 7489

Completed Task List Items

CHeCS Rack Stowage Reconfig Part 1
JEM Hard Dummy Panel Removal
LHA Spares Audit

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Nominal commanding

