
Payloads:
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): The crew prepared for a BCM session but was unable to successfully bring up the BCM application on the computer.  The BCM session will be rescheduled later.  The Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (Behavioral Core Measures) experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight, and evaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the original activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crew members to complete either individual or crew telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember who has spent months in weightlessness can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (CIR/ACME): The crew replaced a 100% ethylene (CH2=CH2) fuel bottle with a new bottle of the same composition.  This was performed in support of the on-going Flame Design part 2 experiment.  The Flame Design investigation studies the production and control of soot in order to optimize oxygen-enriched combustion and the design of robust, soot-free flames. Soot can adversely affect efficiency, emissions, and equipment lifetime, so this may lead to more efficient and cleaner burner designs.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4):   The crew set the appropriate parameters and adjusted the camera field of view for experiment runs 84 and 85.  InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
ISS HAM pass:  The crew completed an ISS Ham pass with Wolfgang-Kubelka-Realschule (WKR), Schondorf am Ammersee, Germany.  Some of the questions asked by the 9 to 15-year-old students included how noisy it is on the ISS, how the crew sleeps on the ISS, and which experiment is the most exciting for the crew.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents, and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering, and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Phospho-aging: The crew inserted the blood and urine samples into their cold stowage location.  These were collected in support of the Phospho-aging investigation.  Phospho-aging Mechanism of Accelerated Aging Under Microgravity (Phospho-aging) examines the molecular mechanism behind aging-like symptoms, such as bone loss and muscle atrophy, that occur more rapidly in microgravity. Using analysis of human premature-aging syndromes (progeria) in mouse models, scientists identified Calciprotein Particles (CPPs) as a pro-aging factor in mammals. CPPs behave like a pathogen, inducing chronic inflammation and systemic tissue damage that could be the mechanism behind accelerated aging in space.
Protein Crystallization Research Facility (PCRF): In support of the PCRF cell maintenance activities, the crew relocated the maintenance units from locations 2, 3, 4 to locations 1, 5, 6. The PCRF is a JAXA subrack facility which investigates protein crystal growth in microgravity. PCRF is housed in the Ryutai (fluid) Experiment Rack, along with the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF), Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF), and the Image Processing Unit (IPU).
Vascular Aging: The crew collected long-term blood pressure data and performed a glucose tolerance test in support of the Vascular Aging investigation.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems: 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) and EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) Prep Activities: The crew continued working on post-EVA and EMU prep activities today. The US Airlock is used for stowage of other ISS hardware when not being utilized for EVAs, and these stowage items were moved back into the Airlock following the SASA R&R EVA on December 2nd. The crew also performed an EVA Battery Installation of Lithium-Ion Batteries into the Battery Stowage Compartment followed by an auto-cycle of the EVA Batteries using the EVA Battery Operations Terminal.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Wet/Dry Vacuum Recovery: The Wet/Dry Vacuum was cleaned of Hazard Response Level 1 debris and the vacuum’s HEPA filter was Removed and Replaced (R&Red), after which the vacuum cleaner was placed back in a nominal configuration. The Wet/Dry Vacuum Cleaner is used to collect and contain wet or moist debris, and is certified to vacuum only Hazard Response Level 0 items.
IFM Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) Troubleshooting Activities: BPA troubleshooting to contain excess odor began with the replacement of an O-ring at the Brine Processor Exhaust Adapter with Duxseal from the ISS Leak Kit. The O-ring replacement enabled crew to compare the currently installed ducting condition to spare ducting condition, and the configuration with the best condition was installed. In this case, the spare ducting was in the best condition. Next, the BPA Exhaust Filter was R&Red. The Exhaust Filter scrubs the odor from the air leaving the BPA.
Completed Task List Activities:

Record ESA PAO Messages with Matthias Maurer

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PPS HIGH BETA OPERATIONS
VS Leak Limits Change Activate
HD Video Downlink Expansion Checkout
VS Limit Configuration
ATS PPL Loading
Columbus LTL IFHX bypass on Water side
EHDC Checkout
PTCS Node 2 Heater Configuration

