
3D printing in Zero G:  Wilmore removed the final print coupon from the 3D Printer, concluding the objectives of the 3D printing in Zero G demonstration.  Crew then removed the 3D printing equipment from the Microgravity Glove Box (MSG) and stowed the unit. The 3-D Printing in Zero-G technology demonstration experiment will show that a 3-D printer can work normally in space. A 3-D printer extrudes streams of heated plastic, metal or other material, building layer on top of layer to create three-dimensional objects. Testing a 3-D printer on the ISS is the first step towards establishing a working machine shop in space, a critical component for astronaut missions and in-space manufacturing.
Synchronized Position Hold Engage and Reorient Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo:  Cristoforetti and Serova set up the SPHERES work area to activate and check out the hardware and the EXPRESS Laptop Computer (ELC).  Crew then loaded SPHERES with test session specific software and monitored the test using the ELC.  Once the test session was complete, they deactivated and stowed the SPHERES hardware.  The SPHERES-Vertigo investigation uses free-flying satellites and is designed to demonstrate and test, in a complex environment, enhanced technologies and techniques related to visual inspection and navigation. This effort incorporates hardware and software that enables multiple SPHERES to construct three dimensional (3D) models of a target object. Additionally, this investigation explores how well the SPHERES free-flyers then perform relative navigation solely by reference to these 3D models.
MICRO 5:  Virts gathered the MSG life sciences ancillary hardware in support of the upcoming Micro-5 operations. The Micro-5 investigation aims to better understand the risks of in-flight infections in space explorers during long-term space flight using the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans (roundworm) with the microbe Salmonella typhimurium, which causes food poisoning in humans. 
ASTRO Palate:  Virts retrieved a special Astro Palate prepackaged meal, consumed it as his midday meal and then completed the Mood and Food Consumption/Satisfaction Questionnaire.  Astro Palate studies the relationship among emotions, mood, stress and eating during spaceflight. The study explores ways to minimize stressful aspects of the eating situation so that individuals consume more food and are more satisfied with it. Additionally, the experiment examines ways to use the eating itself to reduce the stress or negative moods that crewmembers might normally experience in flight. 
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE-M3):  Wilmore cleaned up existing oil and dispense oil droplets to the ACE M3 sample wells of interest.   The Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) team reported there was insufficient oil on the sample wells to observe samples using the 100x objective lens.  ACE-M3 research involves the design and assembly of complex three-dimensional structures from small particles suspended within a fluid medium. These so-called self-assembled colloidal structures are vital to the design of advanced optical materials. In the microgravity environment, we will study the relation between particle shape, crystal symmetry and structure, a fundamental issue in condensed matter science.

Seedling growth-2:  Wilmore prepared the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) for Seedling Growth-2 experiment sample processing activities.  Seedling Growth-2 is the second part of the Seedling Growth Experiment series and uses the plant Arabidopsis thaliana to determine the effects of gravity on cellular signaling mechanisms of phototropism and to investigate cell growth and proliferation responses to light stimulation in microgravity conditions. Seedling Growth 2 requires three European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) runs to be performed to collect image data and frozen samples. 
Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI):  Wilmore performed a pressure check on the manometer in the nitrogen fill and purge Airborne Support Equipment (ASE) located in the MELFI.  The crew checks that MELFI nitrogen pressure is within acceptable range every six months. 
SpaceX-5 Offset Grapple On-Board Training Session #2:  All 3 USOS crew members participated in this training today in preparation for SpaceX-5 arrival on December 21, 2014. Grapple approaches were practiced where the crew maneuvers the Latching End Effector (LEE) over the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) pin and pulls the trigger when they enter the grapple envelope.  There were no commands loaded for the LEE during the triggering exercise, so there was no mechanism motion in today’s session. For the last approach, the crew practiced a hot backup Robotics Workstation System (RWS) transition from the Cupola RWS to the Lab RWS.  After the completion of the grapple practice, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the SpaceX-5 High Hover position.
Node 3 Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Forward and Aft Checkout:  Overnight, ground controllers activated and checked out the Node 3 CBM Forward and Aft Active CBM.  This procedure performs a berthing bolt checkout without moving the latches or petals.  This task is in preparation for an upcoming EVA to release the external petal launch locks. Neither port has been activated or checked out since they arrived on orbit. The Node 3 Forward CBM is the future location of the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM), and the Node 3 Aft CBM is the future location of the Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM).
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Biochemical Urine Test
URISYS Hardware Stowage
3DP – Printed Coupon Removal and Stowage
CIR – Hardware Setup
Installation of overlay sheets on FGB interior panels.
Verification of anti-virus scan results on Auxiliary Computer System (ВКС) laptops
ACE-M3 M Oil Dispensing
SDGR2-MWA – Reconfiguration
3DP-EXP – Equipment Stowage
SPHERES – Camera Setup and Test Ops
Installation of overlay sheets on FGB interior panels
WRS Water Sample Analysis
MICRO5 – Equipment Gathering
СТТС comm system switchover to the primary set
VHF2d test from SM (on primary sets)
Astro Palate (AP) – Familiarization
EDV Refill from ATV5 WDS Tank
Cleaning ГЖТ4 (Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger) ВТ-7 Fan Screen
BAR.  Experiment Ops. / r/g 7466
Astro Palate (AP) – Launching Application
OBT Dragon Offset Grapple No. 2
TOCA Data Recording
TOCA Waste Water Bag (WWB) Changeout
OBT Dragon Offset Grapple No. 2
OBT – SSRMS Debrief Conference
MICRO5 – Equipment Setup
MELFIs 1, 2 & 3 – Check & Pressure Monitoring
В3 Fan Screen Cleaning in MRM2 ИК0501 Gas Analyzer О2 readings adjustments.
SM CO measurement using CMS unit

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Nominal commanding
MSS Hot Backup Config in support of Offset Grapple Session #2

