
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Status:  Overnight, Robotic Flight Controllers attempted different techniques to move the Mobile Transporter (MT) to Worksite 4, none of which accomplished the task.  During these attempts, the team observed the Port Crew Equipment Translation Aid (CETA) Cart move slightly with the MT, while the Starboard CETA cart did not.  Therefore, the team is focusing on the possibility of a brake engagement associated with the Starboard CETA cart.  Disengaging the CETA cart brake will require an EVA.  Team 4 has been activated in order to plan for an EVA early next week in order to accomplish the task prior to 62P Docking on Wednesday.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Kelly and Kopra prepared for an EVA early next week by initiating charge cycles for the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBA), Helmet Lights, Pistol Grip Tools (PGT), and Long Life Batteries (LLB).  Two D4 cameras were configured and Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFERs) were checked out.  In addition, the crew worked to resize Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs).  EMU 3010 was resized for Kelly and EMU 3003 was resized for Kopra.
 
NanoRacks Module Installations:  Kelly installed NanoRacks modules that arrived on the Orbital ATK-4 (OA-4) in a NanoRacks Platform-2 locker in the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM).  These five modules contain a wide range of experiments developed by high school students, including water purification, protein crystallation, plant inoculation for disease protection, metal corrosion, etc.  NanoRacks Platforms provide power and data transfer capabilities for NanoRacks Modules.
 
Marrow:  Kelly retrieved air sampling hardware from the OA-4 vehicle for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Marrow investigation.  Peake prepared and then temporarily stowed the hardware, which will be used to take breath and ambient air samples immediately after waking tomorrow.  The Marrow investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on the bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
 
Cognition: Kopra performed his Flight Day 6 session of the Cognition experiment.  The Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) investigation is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software used allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Journals: Kelly completed a Journals entry. The Journals investigation obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures used by astronauts during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information used in preparations for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
 
Veg-01:  Kelly refilled the Veg-01 plant pillows with water. The Veg-01 investigation is used to assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie facility, focusing on the growth and development of seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the composition of microbial flora on the plants and the facility.  For this run, Zinnias will be grown for 60 days and are expected to produce flowers.
 
Space Headaches:   Peake completed another Daily Space Headaches questionnaire as part of his week-long series.  The daily questionnaires are only scheduled immediately after arrival of a new crewmember to the ISS.  Weekly questionnaires will be completed in subsequent weeks.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

BSA Maintenance Initiation
LLB battery Charging
NANORACK Platform Install:
Cognition
SAFER Checkout
EMU Resize
BIOSIGNAL. Temperature check in Cryogem-03
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference
ECLSS Recycle Tank Remove and Replace
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops
Cygnus Cargo Operations
IMS Tagup
TORU OBT
ТКГ 428 (DC1) Stowage and IMS Ops
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Preparation of Hardware for SSU Checkout
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
ТКГ 428 (DC1) Stowage Completion Report
VCA1 Camera Adjustment
VEG-01 – Refilling Root Mat with Water
Removal of ССД305 Light in Progress 428 (DC1) Stow the unit removed from ТКГ 428 ССД305 to bag 407-34 (00050114R) (МИМ1_ПБ_407_1) Report to MCC ССД305 No.
KUB6-C – Hardware Setup
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Cygnus Cargo Operations Tagup
JRNL – Journal Entry
KUB6-T – Hardware Setup
EPO – Photo Documentation
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Intravehicular Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter (IV-TEPC) Relocate
PPS – Hardware Setup
RGN REC-TNK – Remove depress hose for nominal operations
Deactivation of ТК 718 Gas Analyzer
ТКГ 428 (DC1) Activation, Air Duct Removal
Gas Analyzer Deactivation in ТК 719
Removing two [CA] 1, 2 TV cameras and СГ2-14В light units in Soyuz 719 (Stow TV cameras (2) in ТК 718 БО for return, Light Units – in ТК 719 БО for disposal)
T2 CMS Introduction
Setup and Activation of КСПЭ Equipment in DC1 for TV coverage “Removal of Quick Release Screw Clamps (ЗВБ)” in MPEG2 format via Ku-band
Countermeasures System (CMS) – T2 treadmill – Glenn Harness Configuration
MELFI – Familiarization
On MCC GO Removal of Internal Transfer System (ССВП) Quick-Release Screw Clamps and Video Recording of DC1-ТКГ 428 Interface
ESA Weekly Crew Conference
Deactivation of КСПЭ equipment in DC1 after TV coverage “Removal of Quick Release Screw Clamps (ЗВБ)”
DC1-ТКГ 428 (DC1) Hatch Closure
On MCC GO DC1-СУ and СУ-Progress 428 (DC1)  hatch leak check
PPS – Bench Setup
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring
Soyuz 719 Samsung tablet charge – initiate
CIR – Experiment Ops
Portable Power Supply (PPS)  Settings
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
CIR – Experiment Ops
MARROW – Air Sampling
CSA – Preliminary steps before blood sample collection
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
СОЖ Maintenance
CIR – Experiment Ops
CONTUR-2. Experiment Session
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Vacuum Cleaning of ВД1 and ВД2 air ducts in DC1
CIR – Rack Doors Close
CONTUR-2. De-installation of master arm with adapter from panel 418
EVA – Short Extravehicular Mobility Unit (SEMU) Refresher and Delta Training
Vacuum cleaning of SM  Dust Filter Cartridges 1-4
Inspection and Photography of lower dust collectors ПФ1, ПФ2 in SM
Portable Power Supply (PPS) Experiment
IMS and Stowage Conference
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Evening Work Prep
RGN – Initiate drain into EDV
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
EML – Experiment Ops
Charging Soyuz 719 Samsung tablet – termination
RGN – Terminate water drain into EDV
Daily Planning Conference (S-band)
USOS Window Shutter Close
SHD – Weekly Questionnaire
COGN-T – Hardware Activation
Closure of SM window shutters No.6,8,9,12,13,14
ODF Books Update on IPAD ECON-M. Observation and Photography
URAGAN Observations and Photography
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
Installation of inserts to ease opening of SM interior panel locks (Unstow Элементы конструкции (Structural Elements) kit (004890R), ФГБ1ПГО_4_427_1, СТВ No.1112 (004106J)
IMS Delta File Prep

 
Completed Task List Items

WHC KTO Replace

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal Commanding

 
