
Payloads
ISS Experience: The crew set up the appropriate equipment to record a session of The ISS Experience in the Russian segment with the goal of capturing exercise and experiment performance.  The International Space Station Experience (The ISS Experience) is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station. Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.  The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
J-HDTV installation: The crew performed the activities needed to install the EFU (Exposed Facility Unit) adapter on the JEM airlock slide table.  This is a continuation of the activities supporting the iSIM (integrated Standard Imager for Microsatellites) removal and HDTV/SOLISS installation.  HDTV/SOLISS (High Definition TV/Demonstration of Small Optical Communication System) will eventually be translated to a JEM-EF location.  SOLISS is demonstrates the use of an optical communication system to provide more than 100Mbps downlink speed from the International Space Station (ISS).
Monoclonal Antibodies:  The crew performed microscopy observations on the Monoclonal PCG experiment samples.  The experiment was initiated 7 days ago and these ops were an initial survey looking for any protein crystal growth or structures in the solutions.  Structural and Crystallization Kinetics Analysis of Monoclonal Antibodies (Monoclonal Antibodies PCG) assesses the differences in crystallization in space of various therapeutic monoclonal antibodies. Monoclonal antibodies are lab-created immune system proteins designed to interact with specific targets such as cancer cells. Microgravity enables production of higher quality crystals that could support development of drugs with reduced cost, improved stability and greater ease of administration.
MSRR/MSL SCA exchange:  The crew performed the steps necessary to remove the processed SCA (sample cartridge assembly) and install a new one in the batch 2b experiment series. The ESA Batch-2b of the Materials Science Laboratory Sample Cartridge Assemblies (MSL SCA-Batch 2b-ESA) serves two projects investigating how different phases organize in a structure when metallic alloys are solidified. The project Metastable Solidification of Composites (METCOMP) studies the phase formed by the reaction of the remaining liquid phase with an already formed solid, to form a second solid phase on cooling. For this purpose, Bronze (Copper-Tin Alloys) of different compositions will be processed. The other project, Solidification along a Eutectic path in Ternary Alloys (SETA), looks at how two phases that form together organize into lamellar, or fiber, structures when cooling Aluminum (Copper-Silver Alloys). Both projects will provide benchmark samples that will enable to test numerical models that aim to predict these structures.
Myotones: The crew completed their ultrasound scans and measurements with the Myotones device. The Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation are expected to provide insight into principles of human resting muscle tone, which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions.
Systems
Power Channel 4B Trip Event: Following yesterday’s successful Channel 4B recovery effort, Battery Charge Discharge Units (BCDUs) 4B2 and 4B3 experienced another Amp Delta Fault Detection, Isolation, and Recovery (FDIR) and shut down. The FDIR was inhibited per Flight Investigation Team (FIT) recommendation from the previous channel 4B anomaly earlier this week, however there was also a Persist Amp Delta Event which triggered after 20 seconds and tripped BCDU 4B2 and 4B3 converters.  A Seamless Power Channel Handover (SPCH) has once again tied Channel 4B to Channel 4A and heaters were reactivated for BCDU 4B2 and 4B3. Loads remained powered throughout as BCDU 4B1, which had also tripped on the previous anomaly, is currently still active. A FIT is scheduled this afternoon to determine the forward path.
ISS Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Umbilical (IEU) Activation and Checkout: The IEU that was previously installed (s/n 1007) was of an older configuration.  The new IEU design that incorporates strain relief has been added to the end of the umbilical where it interfaces with the suit (corrective action to previous water leaks).  S/n 1007 was removed yesterday and the new design was installed today.
Completed Task List Activities:

MVP glove bag locate
PMM cleanup

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

EVA SCU activation/checkout
Payloads ops support

