12-14-2009December 14, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/14/09   All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Underway: Week 3 of Increment 22.   FE Suraev started out with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O2 generator, installed by him on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).    [Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]   CDR Williams completed another Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  A total of 121 RST runs are assigned to Jeff for the duration of his orbital stay.]   Afterwards Williams inspected and activated of the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) in support of ground commanded payload operations.   Jeff also initiated (later terminated) another 5-hr automatic sampling run, the 53rd, with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-4 laptop.     [The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  Today’s data will again to be compared with VOA and GSC (Grab Sample Container) measurements.  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]   Maxim Suraev took his second periodic (generally monthly) health test with the cardiological experiment PZEh MO-1 (“Study of the Bioelectric Activity of the Heart at Rest”) on the T2/COLBERT treadmill.     [Equipment used were VPG/Temporal Pulsogram and ECG/Electrocardiogram Data Output Devices (USI).  The test was during an RGS (Russian Groundsite) overflight window (1:53am) via VHF for data downlink from the VPG and Gamma-1M ECG for about 5-6 minutes.]   The FE also completed the periodic service of the RS (Russian Segment) radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), recording data from detectors in the Bubble-dosimeter reader and deploying dosimeters.    [Eight Bubble dosimeter detectors (A01-A08) are positioned at their exposure locations around the RS.  An additional eight detectors (A09-A16) were collected by Maxim from their location at the spherical “Phantom” unit in the DC1 Docking Compartment where he had placed them on 12/9, and their accumulated measurements recorded on a memory card in the Bubble-dosimeter Reader.  The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls.]   Afterwards, Suraev worked in the SM (Service Module), reconnecting a series of 14 cables of the KURS-P automated rendezvous radar system to enable support of dockings at the DC1 Docking Compartment from the K2-VKA and 2AOK1-VKA instrumentation units in the SM.   Jeff Williams undertook his first session with the JAXA experiment BIORHYTHMS (Biological Rhythms), for which he donned the electrodes of the DWH (Digital Walk Holter) for ECG (Electrocardiogram) recording, then started the data take for the next 24 hrs.   In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Williams supported Japanese payload ops by shutting off the Argon gas supply of the CGSE (Common Gas Support Equipment).   Jeff also performed the periodic USOS (US Orbital Segment) hatch seal inspection which had been on his voluntary “job jar” task list.     [This is regularly performed with a vacuum cleaner/brush plus other tools on the hatches at Node-1 Forward, Aft & Starboard, Node 2 (Aft, Starboard & Port), Lab Aft & Forward, Airlock IV (intravehicular hatch), COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory, Port), JPM (JEM Pressurized Module, Starboard & Zenith), and JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment, Nadir).]   Maxim completed the periodic update of the AntiVirus program in four Russian VKS auxiliary laptops (RSS2, RSK1, RSK2, RSE1), which are not loaded from the ground, from a new uplinked program copy of Norton AV on the FS (File Server) laptop, first scanning the latter, then transferring the database by flash drive to the other computers and scanning them one by one.   The FE also had 2 hrs set aside to complete the inventory/audit of the contents of the K1 & K2 equipment bags in the MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2) started on 12/12 from the discretionary task list.   Later, Suraev worked in the Soyuz TMA-16/21S spacecraft checking out the installation and attachment of a spent 800A battery in its container in the right seat, then taking documentary photographs.    [This couch will remain unoccupied when 20S undocks and lands next March with Suraev & Williams, leaving Kotov, Noguchi & Creamer on the station (to be joined by Skvortsov, Caldwell & Kornienko on 22S on Exp-24 on 4/4/10).]   Using the WRS FTP (Water Recovery System / Fluid Transfer Pump), Jeff Williams transferred stored water to supplement the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) Waste Water Tank, a periodic job.   Jeff also conducted the daily status check and weekly photography of the APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit) hardware, looking for health and color of the plants, since the Cambium plants are removed from the ABRS (Advanced Biological Research System), necessitating henceforth a daily status check & weekly photo session).     [When completed, the APEX-Cambium payload in conjunction with the NASA-sponsored TAGES will determine the role of gravity in Cambium wood cell development (providing the pulp & paper and construction industries insight into the fundamental mechanisms of wood cell formation) and demonstrate non-destructive reporter gene technology & investigate spaceflight plant stress.  APEX-Cambium provides NASA & the ISS community a permanent controlled environment capability to support growth of various organisms (i.e. whole plants).]   Afterwards, the CDR serviced the TAGES (Transgenic Arabidopsis Gene Expression System) payload, wiping the Petri plates.     [Access to the Petri plates required removing the Imager from ABRS (Advanced Biological Research System).  The plates were then pulled out, inspected for contamination, cleaned of condensation and re-inserted in switched positions.]    On the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab, Williams removed the alignment guides to allow activation of the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) by the ground for FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility) operations requiring a microgravity environment.   The Russian Flight Engineer performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]   For today’s ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) workout by Williams & Suraev in Node-1, Jeff clamped a video camcorder to a handrail in PMA-1 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 1) to capture a full body side view with feet at “bottom”.  Afterwards, the equipment was cleared away again.    [The video is required for biomechanical evaluation of the exercising crewmembers, and evaluation of the hardware status by ground engineers.]   As a new task item on his “job jar” list, Jeff completed the swap of two A31p HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) to reattempt the CSL (Crew Support LAN) reload, installing HDD #1406 with the CSL Client Image DVD in SSC-8 (Station Support Computer 8) and stowing the old 60GB HDD.   Jeff & Maxim performed their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR),  ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE) and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE).   The CDR later transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).   At ~3:22am, the CDR powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at ~3:27am conducted a ham radio session with students at Istituto Comprensivo di Govone – Scuola Secondaria di primo grado “Nino Costa” di Priocca, Priocca, Cuneo, Italy.    [The two Junior High schools "Nino Costa" of Priocca and "T.L. Dalmasso" of Govone are integral part of the Comprehensive School of Govone in the  province of Cuneo.  The municipal territories of the Comprehensive School of Govone are situated on the left bank of the river Tanaro; this district, which is a hill country, is called "Roero" and it's famous for its fine wines.   The inhabitants live mostly in the plain where the schools can also be found while on the top of the hill there is the old town centre with the townhall.  The students came from the small towns of Govone, Priocca, Magliano Alfieri, Castellinaldo, San Damiano.  The school is attended by about 300 pupils, aged between 3 and 13 years.]  WRM Update:  A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Collapsible Water Container) water audit.     [The new card (22-0003B) lists 89 CWCs (~2,187.1 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (20 CWCs with 741.9 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 69.7 L in 3 bags for flushing only, 149.3 L in 5 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 388.5 L in 9 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 66.6 L in 2 bags require sample analysis & 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (55 CWCs with 1000.8 L),  4. condensate water (1 CWC with ~31.8 L, 2 empty CWCs), and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 45.9 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]  MDM Software Transition:    Beginning this morning at 1:00am EST, MCC-Houston engineers are transitioning the onboard MDMs (Multiplexer/Demultiplexers, computers) to the new X2 EXT R6 software.  This activity will take place over the course of 3 days (12/14-12/16) and transition 11 MDMs to the new software versions.  Crew actions/interventions are not required (except for a short period on 12/16 when Jeff & Max will be prime for smoke detection in the A/L (Airlock) during A/L MDM transitioning).  Today’s update involves the Primary EXT MDM (to Vers. R6), the S1-2 & P1-1 MDMs (Vers. R4) and S3-1 & P3-2 MDMs (Vers. R3).  DA Investigation:    Teams at MCC-H have disassembled and inspected the failed DA (Distillation Assembly) of the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly, returned to the ground on STS-129, finding urine in unexpected places, clogged filters and particulate depositions.  Analysis and discussions are ongoing.  DA and pump package will be flown up on 20A.   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  