
Payloads
AstroRad Vest: The crew completed a range-of-motion and test with and without the vest installed, and then completed a general survey. The AstroRad vest is a personal protective equipment (PPE) device which functions as a radiation shield for astronauts. The AstroRad shields astronauts from space-borne ionizing radiation in an efficient way, provides operational simplification, and allows for the use of recycled material on-board the vehicle. The concept behind the AstroRad evolved from a commercially available device, the 360 Gamma shield, which is an effective wearable shield for first responders to radiation incidents on the Earth.
Cardinal Heart:  The original plan for today was to perform microscopy observations of the cells growing in the habitats.  However, it took extra time for the crew to achieve a configuration which allowed good focus with the microscope.  Due to this, the microscopy observations were deferred.  Effect of Microgravity on Drug Responses Using Engineered Heart Tissues (Cardinal Heart) studies the effects of change in gravitational force on cardiovascular cells at the cellular and tissue level using engineered heart tissues (EHTs). Microgravity significantly affects heart tissues that perform work and exert an opposite force to gravity and is known to cause molecular and structural abnormalities in cells and tissues that can lead to disease. The investigation could provide new understanding of similar heart issues on Earth and help identify new treatments.
ISS Experience:  The crew set up the ISS Experience hardware in preparation for an off-load of the data from the previous session.  The International Space Station Experience (The ISS Experience) is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station. Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.  The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Micro-14A:  The crew performed the operations needed to collect samples from the 12-well plate, and then inserted the samples into MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS) for preservation.  The Characterizing the Effects of Spaceflight on the Candida albicans Adaptation Response (Micro-14) investigation aboard the International Space Station (ISS) extends previous flight and ground-based studies on an opportunistic yeast, Candida albicans, to define mechanisms that lead to cellular adaptation responses to the spaceflight environment. As an opportunistic pathogen, C. albicans is capable of causing severe, life-threatening illness in immunocompromised hosts. This investigation seeks to evaluate the responses of the microorganism to microgravity conditions and, in particular, to assess changes at the physiological, cellular, and molecular level and to characterize virulence factors.
Phospho-Aging: The crew collected blood and urine samples in support of the Phospho-aging experiment, and inserted them into MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS) for preservation.  JAXA’s Phospho-aging Mechanism of Accelerated Aging Under Microgravity (Phospho-aging) examines the molecular mechanism behind aging-like symptoms, such as bone loss and muscle atrophy, that occur more rapidly in microgravity. Using analysis of human premature-aging syndromes (progeria) in mouse models, scientists identified calciprotein particles (CPPs) as a pro-aging factor in mammals. CPPs behave like a pathogen, inducing chronic inflammation and systemic tissue damage that could be the mechanism behind accelerated aging in space.
Universal Waste Management System (UWMS): The crew gathered the hardware and began assembling the toilet. Due to issues encountered with removing and installing seals on the toilet assembly, the crew was directed to stand down on activities while teams meet to discuss the issue and a forward plan. UWMS demonstrates the technology and long-term use of a compact toilet and the Urine Transfer System (UTS), which provides automated control of flow into the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) or storage containers, which allow simultaneous use of both toilets. Automated offload of backup storage saves crew member time. The UWMS’s smaller footprint and improved technology support possible expansion of space station crew and future long-term, deep-space exploration.
Vascular Aging:  The crew participated in a science session which included the use of the Bio-Monitor device to record several days of physiological data, and the collection of blood samples to assess glucose tolerance.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many International Space Station (ISS) crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Vascular Echo: The crew set up the appropriate hardware, marked the right leg femoral artery, and performed Doppler scans around an exercise session.  Cardiac and Vessel Structure and Function with Long-Duration Space Flight and Recovery (Vascular Echo) examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone.
Systems
Critical Bus Loss: On Saturday 4B Channel experienced a critical bus loss.  Ground controllers cross-tied Channel 4B to 4A and repowered DDCU S14B and DDCU S04B.  Critical system loads were recovered including CMG 4, KU Band A/G 2 and AMS control computer. Teams are meeting to discuss the cause and a forward plan.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Water Sampling: The crew performed this routine activity to take fluid samples from the Lab, Node 2 (N2), Node 3 (N3) and Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). The samples will be returned to the ground for analysis.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) AirLock (AL) Unstow: The crew unstowed items from the Airlock to clear space for this week’s planned Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU)s 3004 and 3015 loop scrub and Secondary Control Unit (SCU) R&R.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew R&Rd the WHC pre-treat tank. During closeout the EK hose was inspected for particulates. This activity is nominal, scheduled maintenance. 
Completed Task List Activities:

Personal CO2 monitor charging
WHC KTO replace
US handover self study
RoBOT proficiency training
SSC25 hard drive swap
Search for RR habitat

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Payloads ops support
Dragon transfer ops support

