12-19-2011December 19, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/19/11  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Underway: Week 5 of Increment 30 (three-person crew).  Soyuz TMA-03M/29S Launch Preparations: At the Baikonur/Kazakhstan Cosmodrome, L-2 preparations are underway for the launch of the Soyuz TMA-22 spacecraft on 12/21 (8:16:15am EST; 7:16:16pm local). Early this morning, the assembled Soyuz FG launch vehicle was rolled out from the assembly-test facility to the launch site and erected. Temperatures are reported lower than ever before (-8F/-22 degC).   After wakeup, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  Also at wakeup, FE-2 Ivanishin completed the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.  CDR Burbank conducted the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling in Node-3 using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and *priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose. [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]  Afterwards, Burbank prepared the FCF (Fluids & Combustion Facility) for the subsequent activity by placing six packs of fresh lint-free wipes in the FCF Krytox Kit.   Later, Dan configured the Lab camcorder to provide live viewing of his work on the FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack) FCF, then worked several hours on the PACE (Preliminary Advanced Colloids Experiment) science payload in the FIR FCF, configuring the hardware, cleaning out oil from the AFC (Auxiliary Fluids Container) with wipes, removing the old sample (#2008) and starting the processing of tissue sample #2001. [PACE is an interesting Technology experiment, designed to investigate the capability of conducting high magnification colloid experiments with the LMM (Light Microscopy Module) for determining the minimum size particles which can be resolved with it. Today’s activity steps included opening the FIR doors, then cleaning up oil from inside the AFC and removing PACE sample #2008 from the PACE Test Target. Next, Dan retrieved tissue sample #2001, mounted the PACE test target and installed the sample and the PACE oil dispenser into the LMM AFC. The AFC front door was closed and the oil started to be dispensed onto the sample. The LMM Spindle Bracket Assembly was then rotated to the Operate position and the rack doors were closed. The new experiment run, which uses the newly installed PACE LED (Light-Emitting Diode) Base to allow illumination from below the samples (or trans-illumination), will enable the ground to use the LMM microscope to examine tissue and particle samples and also characterize the microscope for ACE (Advanced Colloids Experiment) scheduled to begin in 2012. ACE Objective: To remove gravitational jamming and sedimentation so that it is possible to observe how order arises out of disorder and to learn to control this process. Small colloidal particles can be used to model atomic systems and to engineer new systems. Colloids are big enough (in comparison to atoms) to be seen and big enough that their evolution can be recorded with a camera. With a confocal microscope, templates, and grids, we can observe this process in 3-D and learn to control it.]  Ivanishin performed the periodic (every Monday) verification of the automatic IUS AntiVirus program on the Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p & RSK2, as well as the manual update on the non-network laptops RSE-Med & RSE1. [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the SSCV4 software update. Before the installation (on 8/8) of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p & RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med & RSE1. On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops. Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied onRSK1-T61p & RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily. On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]  Shkaplerov started his 2nd session of the standard 24-hour ECG (electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2-2 protocol which monitors human cardiovascular performance in the space flight environment. [After 24 hrs of ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed (CDM) system, Anton will doff the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads and recorded on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit. The examination results will then be downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by theKardiomed application. Later, the data will be downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]  FE-1 also supported the ground in switching the RS (Russian Segment) STTS comm assets from the backup to the prime string, a standard maintenance practice.  The CDR spent ~1.5 hrs on gathering exercise equipment for the upcoming Soyuz 29S crew and temporarily stowed it. But Dan ran out of time and could not finish, leaving the remainder for Anton Shkaplerov.  FE-1 searched for and gathered equipment needed for setting up and testing the MBRL (PCE/Proximity Communications Equipment), consisting of BUAP (Antenna Switch Box) and the ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) Control Panel. Anton then prepared panels 225 & 226 in the SM for the installation of the PCE and BUAB boxes and reviewed procedures for cabling and boxes installation. Ground specialist tagup was available as required.  Later, Shkaplerov used the MMTs-01 Multimeter with electric jumpers to test resistances (continuities) in the SEP (Electric Power System) Channel B Power Controller in the SM, to troubleshoot an uncommanded triggering of the SEPV telemetry parameter (deactivation of the SEP Power Controller on channel B).  Anatoly began the longer-term outfitting task of phasing out old generation lights in the RS and replacing them with new lights, as well as fuses. [Ten currently installed SSD305 lights are to be removed (to be trashed), as well as the two SSD301 lights from Soyuz 28S before its undocking (for recycling). More SSD307 lights will be delivered on the next Progress.]  In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), the CDR retrieved a MARES HD (Muscle Atrophy Resistive Exercise System Hard Disk) and inserted it into the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop, then set up the laptop for reconnecting the video unit.   With Anatoly’s assistance, Burbank then relocated two MWA (Maintenance Work Area) surfaces, one to the Lab (S1 bay), the other to Node-2, in preparation for the upcoming EPIC (Enhanced Processor & Integrated Communications) software upgrade and EPIC card testing activities. [The software update will involve 3 C&C MDMs (Command & Control Multiplexer/Demultiplexers) and 2 GNC (Guidance, Navigation & Control) MDMs (computers).]  FE-2 Ivanishin broke out and set up the equipment for another session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis, scheduled tomorrow for him & Shkaplerov. [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today. The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program. Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s /special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]  After last Friday’s panel inspections in the SM, Anton checked out two more interior panels (329 & 121) to obtain initial data for fabricating cover sheets for the panels, clearing the panels of secured equipment and cargo items, marking locations for a cable hole and detachable handrail and assessing the feasibility of removing external panel elements. [The activities were supported by ground specialist tagup.]  In the SM, Anatoly completed a major 2.5-hr IFM (Inflight Maintenance), replacing an 800A battery (#1) of its PSS (Power Supply System, Russian: SES/sistema elektrosnabzheniya) with a spare AB unit from storage. The old unit was prepared for disposal on Progress 45P. [The full set of the SM SES/EPS (Electrical Power System) storage units comprises eight 800A batteries.]  Anton meanwhile executed another 30-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining still pictures and video on oceanic color bloom patterns in the South-Eastern Pacific waters, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.  FE-1 also performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.]  Working off the Russian “time permitting” discretionary task list, FE-2 took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Dan Burbank had another time slot reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on his personal SSC (Station Support Computer). [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]   Before Presleep, the CDR will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]  Burbank performed his 2nd session of the Treadmill Kinematics program on the T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill, setting up the HD camcorder in Node-1, placing tape markers on his body, recording a calibration card in the FOV (Field of View) and then conducting the workout run within a specified speed range. [Purpose of the Kinematics T2 experiment is to collect quantitative data by motion capture from which to assess current exercise prescriptions for participating ISS crewmembers. Detailed biomechanical analyses of locomotion will be used to determine if biomechanics differ between normal and microgravity environments and to determine how combinations of external loads and exercise speed influence joint loading during in-flight treadmill exercise. Such biomechanical analyses will aid in understanding potential differences in gait motion and allow for model-based determination of joint & muscle forces during exercise. The data will be used to characterize differences in specific bone and muscle loading during locomotion in the two gravitational conditions. By understanding these mechanisms, appropriate exercise prescriptions can be developed that address deficiencies.]  The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).  At ~3:35am EST, Burbank powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, & power supply) and at 3:40am conducted a ham radio session with students at Teodoro Mommsen Middle School, Roma, Italy.  Shkaplerov’s & Ivanishin’s Russian discretionary “time permitting” job today called for continued preparation & downlinking of more reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.  