12-13-2011December 13, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/13/11  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  After wakeup, FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  FE-1 Shkaplerov took his first MBI-24 “SPRUT-2” (“Squid-2”) test, part of Russian medical research on the distribution and behavior of human body fluids in zero gravity, along with PZEh-MO-8 body mass measurement using the IM device.[Supported by the RSS-Med A31p laptop with new software (Vers. 1.6) in the SM, the test uses the Profilaktika kit, with data recorded on PCMCIA memory cards, along with Sergey’s body mass values and earlier recorded MO-10 Hematocrit value, but skipping “fat fold” measurements. Experiment requisites are the Sprut securing harness, skin electrodes (cuffs), and RSS-Med for control and data storage. The “Pinguin” suit or Braslet-M cuffs, if worn, have to be taken off first. Electrode measurements are recorded at complete rest and relaxed body position. The actual recording takes 3-5 minutes, during which the patient has to remain at complete rest.]  In the US Lab, CDR Burbank uninstalled & removed the three alignment guides from CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) at Bay S3, engaged the snubber pins and locked the safety pins to allow the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be active before begin of ground-commanded CIR operations requiring a microgravity environment.  Afterwards, Dan supported the JAXA 2DNT (2D Nano Template) Experiment-2 by reviewing uplinked procedural material, then conducting the experiment.       [Activities included setting up the NIKON D2Xs camera for documentary photography, retrieving the 2D Nano Template Kit2 with 4 large Nano Template bags from MELFI-1 (photographed & inserted in MELFI by Doug Wheelock in October 2010), checking the samples for leaks, releasing the closure and transferring the peptide solution to the space around the sample holder to start peptide alignment.  After taking photographs, Kit2 was inserted in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) at +2 degC.  Objectives:  To produce high-quality “2D nano peptide arrays” under microgravity, and to manufacture substrates for electronic devices on the ground by using the template.  Background:  Peptides are arranged on the base plate slowly.  Microgravity means no convection, which makes for an ordered array.  Only small peptides are used for growth (the membrane shuts out big grains which would cause disordered array).]  Later, Burbank configured the equipment for the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment and then began his 2ndICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, after preparing the Actiwatches, electrode sites, attaching the harness and donning the Cardiopres. At ~7:05am EST, the CDR observed the initial 10-min rest period under quiet, restful conditions before going about his business. [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session. Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist & ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Burbank started the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment. During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis. The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute). After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours. After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink. The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise. The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]  FE-2 Ivanishin prepared for the software upgrade of Russian TsVM (Central Computer) and TVM (Terminal Computer) systems to Vers. 8.05, supported by ground specialist tagup.       [Steps included checking out the command & data links between KTsP1 (Central Post Computer 1, w/Vers. 8.04), TsVM & TVM, followed by doing it for KTsP2 (Vers. 8.05), TsVM &TVM, and then setting up the RS3 laptop and KTsP1 for the 8.05 upgrade from KTsP2.]  With STTS audio comm systems temporarily configured for crew presence in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, Anton Shkaplerov conducted another active session for the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), followed by downlinking the video footage obtained with a SONY HVR-Z1J camcorder over two RGS (Russian Groundsite) passes (10:01am & 11:36am) and reconfiguring STTS to nominal. [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles. Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles. It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]  Starting at ~7:15am, the three crewmembers jointly worked their way through the periodic CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) Medical Contingency OBT (Onboard Training) drill, taking ~45 min. [This on-board training/drill gives crewmembers the opportunity to work as a team in resolving a simulated medical emergency onboard ISS. This training refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment use, and procedures. Objective is to practice crew communications & coordination necessary to perform medical emergency procedures using such equipment as the ACLS, ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack) & AED (Automated External Defibrillator), performing hardware deployment & rescuer positioning, and conducting simulations of CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation), deployment & use of the CMRS (Crew Medical Restraint System), reviewing prevention of oxygen “bubble” build-up when using the RSP (Respiratory Support Pack), etc.]  CDR Burbank set up the new laptop-based ROBoT simulation equipment for a quick checkout of the upcoming Dragon capture training (beginning about two weeks prior to arrival of the SpaceX Dragon capsule next February).       [Objectives will be to ensure proper functionality of the new ROBoT sim, provide proficiency training for Dragon capture operations, and practice good hand controller techniques and successful captures.  The sim will begin with the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) at a position 2 m from Dragon in manual mode with a hot trigger, rate scaled, POHS off, and SR locked. The focus of today’s session was on generic hand-controller practice and proficiency.]   Anatoly spent another ~4.5 hrs in the FGB using microbial growth wipes and Fungistat disinfectant to clean areas behind wall panels which have shown some microbial contamination.   [Today’s treatment focused on spaces behind panels 204, 205 & 303.   The time-consuming work requires clearing cargo out of the way, removing bungees, photographing enclosure spaces, etc.  Areas of interest are accessible frame sections, attachments, mounting bracket, pressurized shell surface areas, panel internal surfaces, etc.]  Anton had ~2 hrs for more unloading and transfers of cargo from Progress 45P to the ISS for stowage, guided by an uplinked loading plan. [Of the approximately 1166 listed entries on 45P, about 404 are USOS items. Progress M-13M is to remain docked at the DC1 for about 3 months, and its unloading continues as a long-term activity.]   In Node-3, the CDR closed down the T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill’s software on its laptop for data transfer, then turned off the T2 display.  Later, Dan performed the quarterly T2 maintenance inspection, requiring about 30 min for inspecting rack composite and isolators plus performing T2 load cell calibration.  Ivanishin performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.]  Shkaplerov took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]  At ~9:05am, Dan Burbank supported two PAO TV events, first downlinking a deferred (taped) message with holiday greetings to everyone in celebration of Christmas, then responding to an interview with KPRC-TV, Houston, TX (Lauren Freeman).   FE-1 & FE-2 had their standard weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Anton at ~12:10pm, Anatoly at ~12:25pm.  The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).  A new task added to Dan Burbank’s voluntary “job jar” task list was the recovery of a failed laptop, SSC-18 (Station Support Computer 18), by removing its battery and inserting a new one, then attempting to power on.  If this doesn’t help, Dan is to replace the laptop with a stowed spare laptop.  The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for FE-1 & FE-2 for today suggested more preparation & downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).  GHF Checkout:   On 12/1, JAXA ground controllers continued the extensive checkout of the GHF (Gradient Heating Furnace) payload on the Kobairo Rack in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) which began on 12/1 and is continuing for about 14 days.  Conjunction Advisory: NASA/MCC-H is tracking a conjunction with Object 31894 (another Fengyun 1C satellite debris) with TCA (Time of Closest Approach) on Thursday (12/15) at 7:17pm EST.  The conjunction is currently classified as Medium Concern, primarily because of the smaller radial miss and larger uncertainties on the object.  The latest update has moved the object outside the conjunction notification box, but due to the large uncertainties, NASA continues to gather tracking data on the object before standing down completely from Debris Avoidance operations.   No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today due to a shortage of sites in the Southern Hemisphere, weather, and sun illumination conditions..  