
Payloads:
EasyMotion:  After donning the EasyMotion Suit, the crew performed a Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) exercise science session.  Following the experiment session, the crew removed the suit and charged the experiment batteries.  The EasyMotion investigation uses whole body Electro-Myo-Stimulation (EMS) with a wearable body skin suit for an ISS crew member to perform pre- and postflight EMS-assisted exercises. EMS technology initiates spontaneous (involuntary) activation of global musculature (muscle, tendon, fascia) to be monitored (muscle tone/tension and stiffness) inflight using the non-invasive Myoton technology that is currently aboard the space station for the Myotones investigation.
Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL): The crew removed and stowed the five Soft Matter Dynamics (SMD) sample cells, removed and stowed the SMD Experiment container, and removed and stowed the power harness associated with the SMD experiment.  FSL is a multiuser facility designed by ESA for conducting fluid physics research in microgravity. It can be operated as a fully automatic or semiautomatic facility and can be controlled onboard by the ISS crew or from the ground in telescience mode.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids-4 (InSPACE-4):   The crew distributed the particles within the sample vial, set the appropriate parameters, and adjusted the camera field of view for experiment run #93.  Due to the time required to obtain good particle distribution in the sample vial, only one of the two original runs was performed.  InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): The crew collected a water sample from the electrolysis water tank, and then inserted it into cold stowage for preservation until analysis on the ground.  JWRS is a pilot-scale system capable of generating 1 liter per day of potable water from urine. In the past on crewed spacecraft, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard.  For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor.  Demonstration of the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
KERMIT (KEyence Research Microscope Testbed): The crew repeated a software load with the goal of allowing the system to recognize its USB key.  Unfortunately, this was not successful, and the ground team will discuss a forward plan. KERMIT is a commercial off-the-shelf microscope that provides researchers with fundamental microscope capabilities, including state-of-the-art imaging and analysis modules. KERMIT is designed to streamline imaging and analysis through a single platform with easy operation by the ISS crew and from the ground. KERMIT provides the ability to perform advanced microscopy during spaceflight and remotely from the ground.
Vascular Aging: The crew collected a blood sample and performed a glucose tolerance test in support of the Vascular Aging investigation.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems: 
Dragon SpX-24 Arrival Preparations: The crew completed SpX-24 Dragon On-Board Training (OBT) activities today, beginning with vehicle ops which covers a vehicle overview, mission profile, docked phase, Cargo Dragon interior crew interfaces, and Cargo capability and configuration. Crew also reviewed the ISS Homepage, Ops Products tab, Controlled Documents, and the Motion Control System (MCS) for US Crew Vehicle (USCV) and SpaceX Docking Cargo Vehicle, as well as Dragon rendezvous and departure training.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Activities: Today the crew began EMU activities with the Short EMU (SEMU) Launch Enclosure (SLE) Training to prepare for upcoming EMU rotation using the SLE, which is a preparation activity for the return and unpacking of EMUs. Next, crew removed the EMU Data Recorder (EDaR), EDaR Antenna, EDaR Antenna Cable, and High-Definition EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) from EMU 3006, which is returning on SpX-24. Finally, crew completed the termination of the EVA Battery Operations Terminal Autocycle of EVA Li-Ion Batteries.
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Extended Maintenance: The crew replaced battery packs in all deployed CSA-CPs and zero-calibrated all units. The CSA-CPs provide real-time readings following a combustion event and subsequent clean-up efforts. The CSA-CP is also used for continuous monitoring of carbon monoxide levels in the ISS.
Completed Task List Activities:

USOS BCR/RFID Reader Deploy
BCR/RFID Scanner Deploy Review

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

PPS HIGH BETA OPERATIONS
MT Pre-Translation Check Out and Survey
ARS Lab MCA Commanded to Full Calibration
CCS MT DBCL Dump
MT Translation
C2V2 Activation
Cargo Dragon C2V2 Checkout without Ground Site for LCC
MSS Hover Maneuver
MSS Powerdown

