
Payloads:
Advanced Plant EXperiment-07 (APEX-07):  The crew configured both Veggie Facilities for initial APEX-07 operations, preparation, and insertion of thirty Petri Plates per Veggie facility.  APEX-07 examines how changes in gravity and other environmental factors associated with spaceflight affect plants at the level of gene expression.  Previous research shows that microgravity conditions during spaceflight affects which genes turn on or off, which proteins are present and in what amounts, and the modifications made to those proteins.  All of these processes are controlled by RNA, and this investigation analyzes the role of RNA regulation on gene expression during spaceflight in both roots and shoots of plants.
Cytoskeleton:  Cytoskeleton Experiment Containers were installed on the Biolab Rotor.  In vitro cultures of mammalian cells react specifically to microgravity, but there is no solid scientific evidence available about how and why.  The Involvement of Rho family GTPases in gravity perception and reaction (Cytoskeleton) investigation attempts to acquire new information about the events that are happening inside a mammalian cell, with the working hypothesis that the microgravity environment affects the function of RhoGTPases and the cellular signaling that they control.  RhoGTPases are signaling molecules residing under the Rho family of proteins, known to be involved as “molecular switches”, in the control of cell proliferation, apoptosis (programmed cell death), gene expression (flow of genetic information from gene to protein), and cytoskeletal organization.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF):  A crewmember replaced the AC Dry Vacuum Cleaner Debris Bag in support of Electrostatic Levitation Furnace sample removing.  Lost and broken samples from the experiment volume were removed and stowed in Ziploc bags for return.  ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt, and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
NanoRacks Platforms:  Imagery was taken of Platform-2 Module-79.  NanoRacks Platforms is a multipurpose research facility on board ISS. NanoRacks Platforms supports NanoRacks Modules in the CubeSat form factor by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity.
P&G Telescience Investigation of Detergent Experiments (PGTIDE):  A crewmember took imagery of PGTIDE samples.  PGTIDE studies the effectiveness of stain removal ingredients in Tide To Go Pens and Tide To Go Wipes in microgravity.  The investigation also examines any changes in physical appearance of detergent and in stability and performance of enzymes in detergent formulations caused by exposure to microgravity. Results could support development of detergent systems for Artemis, Mars, and other future space missions where crews need the ability to launder clothing.
Systems: 
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Oxygen Regeneration System (OGS) Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) Flow Measurement: Today the crew recorded airflow measurements of the OGS rack AAA using the Velocicalc tool as part of regular maintenance activities being performed this week. The OGS AAA provides cooling to the Node 3 system rack.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Activities: Crewmembers reorganized an EVA Cargo Transfer Bag (CTB), which consisted of inspecting plastic bags and ensuring all hardware is contained in the plastic bags, and then photographing the contents. Crew also terminated a charge begun yesterday on two Li-Ion Batteries using the EVA Battery Operations Terminal and removed the batteries from the Battery Stowage Compartment. These batteries are part of the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA).
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS Powerdown/Powerup
THC OGS AAA Flow Measurement
SPDM MSC Transfer
Lab ITCS LTL Repressurization

