
Synthetic Bone BioCell Operations: The crew completed microscopy operations for Synthetic Bone and then took a sample from each well on the Synthetic Bone Multiwell BioCell and exchanged the fluids with media in each well.  The samples were placed in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  This experiment uses facilities aboard the ISS to grow bone cells in the presence of a commercially available bone adhesive, and a new product called Tetranite. Determining how well Tetranite integrates with bone cell cultures can inform general strategies for addressing bone loss in space.  Sets of bone cell cultures are grown with different adhesives for 20 days and are then fixed, frozen, and returned to Earth for analysis.
Biological Research In Canisters Light Emitting Diode (BRIC-LED):  The crew performed actuation on the BRIC-LED-001 canisters today.  The BRIC-LED-001 investigation demonstrates the use of light emitting diodes as a lighting source in BRIC hardware and evaluates its use in growing plants in a closed system. Arabidopsis thaliana plants are grown for 10 days onboard the ISS at ambient temperature, with light provided by this new lighting source. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  A crewmember completed body and saliva sample collections in support of the MT-2 investigation today. The MT-2 series continues the monitoring of the types of microbes that are present on the ISS. It seeks to catalog and characterize potential disease-causing microorganisms onboard the ISS. Crew pre-flight, in-flight, and post-flight samples and environmental samples from ISS surface and air locations are collected to identify any associations between the microbial content of the samples, as well as potential health effects.
Marrow: Upon waking this morning a crewmember collected breath and ambient air samples. The Marrow investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. 
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS): Using the RED camera, the crew took images of the India-Himalayas-Tibetan Plateau, Europe/Italy in winter conditions and the Nile delta.  EIISS is used to support creation of a series of videos showcasing Earth views taken from space. The videos are taken with cameras on the ISS in 6K hi-resolution and are integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement. 
Space Headaches: Two crewmembers completed daily questionnaires today to support a week-long ESA Space Headaches session which started in the Soyuz vehicle prior to docking to the ISS. The Space Headaches investigation requests crewmembers to respond to a questionnaire that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Dragon External Cargo Operations:  Overnight, Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and reconfigured the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Orbital Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism 1 (OTCM1) to grasp and rotate the SPDM Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP). They then maneuvered the SPDM and Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to use SPDM OTCM1 to grasp and extract the Total & Spectral solar Irradiance Sensor (TSIS) payload from the SpaceX-13 Dragon Trunk and to stow it on the SPDM EOTP. Finally, the SPDM and SSRMS were configured to a park position. Operations were nominal.
Ammonia Measurement Kits (AMK) Chip Changeout:  The Ammonia measurement system chips installed in the AMKs were set to expire at the end of the year. The crew replaced these in both kits with new chips that arrived on Orbital ATK 8 (OA-8). 
SpaceX 13 (SpX-13) Dragon Cargo Ops:  The crew continued packing items for return on SpX-13.  As of Thursday, approximately 31 hours of cargo ops have been completed. SpX-13 is scheduled to unberth and return to earth on January 13, 2018.
53 Soyuz (53S) Unpack:  Today the crew completed unpacking and stowage of all United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) hardware that arrived on 53S. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


IMS Update
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ECON-M. Observation and photography
Marrow Breath And Ambient Air Sample Collection – Subject
Microbial Tracking-2 Body Sample Collection
ARED Photo/TV Reminder
Microbial Tracking-2 Sample MELFI Retrieval Insert
Reminder 2A HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Double Spin Collection – Subject
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Double Spin Collection – Operator
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Double Spin Configuration 1
Daily Planning Conference
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Double Spin Configuration 2
HRF Generic Sample MELFI Insertion
ISS Crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Team) weekly conference
Cargo Transfer to Dragon
ALGOMETRIYA. Pressure and Thermal Algometry preparation for and measurement session. Tagup with specialists as necessary
HRF Generic Refrigerated Centrifuge Spin Conclude
Inventory Management System (IMS) conference
PAO Preparation
Equipment Setup and Activation for MPEG2 TV coverage via Ku-band from SM. Tagup with specialists
53 Soyuz USOS Unpack
Glacier Media Kit Remove
TV Conference with Roscosmos State Corporation, RSC Energia, IBMP, GCTC Management. New Year Greetings
Photography of ТП228 mockup temperature sensors on the external surface of MRM2
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Conclude And Stow
ИК0501 Gas Analyzer О2 Channel Adjustment . Uout=2.81V. Tagup with specialists
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Synthetic Bone Microscope Operations
Photo T/V (P/TV) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Video Setup
RED Camera Setup.
ECLSS Ammonia Chip Replace
Deactivation of КСПЭ Equipment and closing applications on CP SSC after TV conference
MRM1 СКПФ1, СКПФ2 Dust Collector Filter Cartridge Changeout
Earth Imagery from ISS RED Target Operations
Biological Research In Canisters Light Emitting Diode Canister Actuation
Synthetic Bone Biocells Media Ops
RED Camera Deactivation.
ISS Crew Orientation
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Food Intake Tracker (ISS FIT)
APEX-05 MELFI Sample Insertion #1
MELFI Sample Bag Insertion
TangoLab-2 Card Cube Remove
TangoLab-2 MELFI Sample Insertion
ALGOMETRIYA. Strain Measurements Mode
Replacement of СО filter unit in ГЛ2106 gas analyzer
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Inspection
TIMER. Specialized Experiment Session Ops. Tagup with specialists
Replacement of CO sensor in ГЛ2106 gas analyzer
NanoRacks Platform-2 Removal
Moving ГЛ2106 switch to a Прогрев [Warmup] position Report to MCC Tagup with specialists as necessary
Flushing Gas-Liquid Mixture (ГЖС)
Gas Analyzer ГЛ2106 turning on to Работа [Operation] position. Report to MCC Tagup with specialists as necessary
СОЖ Maintenance
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
In Flight Maintenance Duct Removal
Review Cell Science Validation MSG OBT
Cell Science Validation Bioreactor and Sample Bag Removal OPS Review
Combustion Integrated Rack Upper Rack Doors Open
Combustion Integrated Rack Manifold #2 Bottle Replacement
Changeout of Dust Filter 1-4 Cartridges in SM
Combustion Integrated Rack Upper Rack Doors Close
Biological Research in Canisters MELFI Sample Insertion.
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
Handover of Increment 54 Crew

Completed Task List Activities

SSC-13 Ethernet Cable Swap
IPV Tablet Review
ISS Crew Handover 

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Cell Science Validation support
NORS N2 Repress
Standard commanding

