
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #34:  Kelly and Kopra performed an EVA to troubleshoot the starboard Crew Equipment Translation Aid (CETA) cart and Mobile Transporter (MT).  The starboard CETA cart is linked to the side of the Mobile Transporter (MT), and its brake was engaged preventing MT movement.  Kelly released the brake and the MT was successfully commanded by Robotic Ground Controllers to translate to Worksite 4 where it was latched and mated.  In addition to the CETA cart task, Kelly and Kopra performed several get ahead activities.  Kelly routed Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA) 3 power and International Docking Adapter (IDA) ethernet cables along Node 1.  Kopra opened the Secondary Power Distribution Assembly (SPDA) doors for future Robotic operations, routed an ethernet cable for the Multipurpose Laboratory Module (MLM), and retrieved a Scoop/D-Handle tool from a toolbox on the truss.  US Airlock Egress took place at 6:43am CST with ingress occurring at 9:59am CST, for a total EVA time of 3 hours 16 minutes.
 
62 Progress (62P) Launch:  62P successfully launched from the Baikonur, Kazakhstan Cosmodrome today at 2:44am CST.  The vehicle will perform a 34-orbit rendezvous, with docking scheduled for Wednesday December 23 at 4:31am CST.
 
Cognition:  Peake performed his Flight Day 6 session of the Cognition experiment today.  The Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) investigation is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software used allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Fine Motor Skills:  Kornienko completed a session of the Fine Motor Skills experiment today.  During the experiment he performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
 
Space Headaches:   Peake completed his final Daily Space Headaches questionnaire today.  The daily questionnaires are scheduled for one week immediately after arrival of a new crewmember to the ISS.  Weekly questionnaires will be completed in subsequent weeks.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Reading Reminder for EVA In-Suit Light Exercise (ISLE) Preparation
Morning Inspection. SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test
Inspection of СМ-У, РУ2, РУ4, РУ5 connectors on МНР-НС separator pump in АСУ behind panel 139 and line 5182-03 from Pretreat and Water Dispenser (ДКиВ) towards МНР in its transparent section.
Fine Motor Skills Test Reminder
RSS1,2 Reboot
Reading CARDOX Reminder
Reading Cognition Reminder
Powerdown of HAM Radio in SM and Columbus
CUCU Deactivation for US EVA
Photo/TV EVA Camera Test and Transfer
EVA – ISLE Prep
Check MCC БМП (Micropurification Unit) Ф1 Cartridge Regeneration (initiation)
Revitalization Subsystem (СОГС),  5.3, step 1, p. 5-3 (64)
Vacuum cleaning of ПФ1, ПФ2 dust filters and screens of [В1], [В2] fans in DC1
Cargo Transfer from Soyuz 719 with IMS Update
IAS EVA Communication Configuration
EVA – ISLE Prep
Fine Motor Skills – Subject
Virus Definition File Update on Auxiliary Computer System Laptops
PILOT-Т. Preparation for Experiment Session
EMU Purge
PILOT-Т. Experiment Session
ISLE EMU Prebreathe
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Crewlock Depress
Crewlock Post Depress
Crewlock Egress
Station Support Computer (SSC) 22 USB Reseat
CETA Cart / Mobile Transporter Troubleshooting
Station Support Computer (SSC) 22 Reboot
PILOT-Т. Closeout Ops
SM Fan System Maintenance. Group [В1]
CALCIUM. Photo and Placement of Bioecologia Cases. Photo Downlink
СОЖ Maintenance
Crewlock Ingress
EVA Glove Photo Setup
Crewlock Pre Repress
Internal Audio Subsystem (IAS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Communication Deconfiguration
Crewlock Repress
Exercise data D/L via OCA
Post-EVA Activities
Photo/TV Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Camera Disassembly
EVA Glove Photo Downlink
COGN – Experiment Ops and Questionnaire Completion
SHD – Daily Questionnaire
Relocate PBAs for upcoming EVA
check MCC БМП (Micropurification Unit) Ф1 Cartridge Regeneration (termination)
Reading Reminder
Preparation for Virus Scan on Auxiliary Computer System Laptops
Reading HABIT Reminder
Reading Reminder
Reading Habitability Reminder
Reading CARDOX Reminder
Installation of inserts to ease opening of SM interior panel locks (Unstow Элементы конструкции (Structural Elements) kit (004890R), ФГБ1ПГО_4_427_1, СТВ No.1112 (004106J)
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ECON-M. Observation and Photography
URAGAN. Observation and Photography
Video Recording for All-Russia State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company (ВГТРК)
IMS Delta File Prep

 
Completed Task List Items

None

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

EVA Support
MT Translation

 
