
USOS 4A ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Install Extravehicular Activity (EVA): Today, Frank Rubio (EV-1) and Josh Cassada (EV-2) conducted USOS EVA #83. The main goal of this EVA was to install and deploy the 4A IROSA to augment power generation for the 4A power channel on the station’s port truss structure. Hatch opening occurred at 7:17 AM CT. The final Phased Elapsed Time (PET) from today’s EVA was 7 hours and 8 minutes and the crew completed the following objectives:

P4 Cable Routing
Release FSE Beam
Release IROSA From FSE
Install IROSA on P4 4A Mast Canister
Connect IROSA Electrical Connectors
Deploy P4 4A IROSA

Payloads:
Veg-05: The crew checked on the germination status of the seeds in the twelve plant pillows and added water as necessary. The experiment is currently on day eight of the 100+ day growth cycle. The Veg-05 investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet may need to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the ISS to help meet this need, and leafy greens have successfully been grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-05 expands crop variety to dwarf tomatoes and focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on fruit production, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.
Systems:
Robotic Operations in Support of 4A IROSA Install EVA: Today, the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) was used in support of USOS EVA #83. The Articulating Portable Foot Restraint (APFR) was attached to the SSRMS and assisted EV-2 with the translation of the IROSA from the Flight Support Equipment (FSE) beam to the mod kit on the station’s 4A port truss structure. The SSRMS is a 7-Degree of Freedom (DOF) robotic manipulator that provides capability for free-flyer capture, payload handling, EVA support, and video surveying.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

EMU Data Recorder Operations
CCS S-band TLM HK1 Preempt
EVA EMU ISLE Operations
HD EMU Camera Operations
PPS IROSA Safing

