
Sarcolab-3 Deconfigure and Stow: After successful completion of the Flight Day (FD) 30-60 sessions on Tuesday and Wednesday, the crew deconfigured and stowed the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES). Later today, the crew will verify and downlink the data and stow the remaining ancillary Sarcolab-3 hardware. The next session will be in the FD 30-60 window. Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus, or calf muscle, where it joins the Achilles tendon which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Japanese-Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) Exchange: On Monday, the satellite housed in J-SSOD #5 was successfully deployed and the launcher was returned to the Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table.  Today, the crew removed J-SSOD #5 and installed J-SSOD #6, the first Enhanced J-SSOD which is able to launch twice the satellites when compared to previous deployers.  J-SSOD #6 will deploy the following experiments:

AOBA-Velox-III (2U): A demonstration of Pulsed Plasma Thruster
TuPOD (3U): Deployment of two CubeSat daughter satellites
EGG (3U): Demonstration to unfold a toroidal inflable structure for aeroshells
ITF-2 (1U): Builds a network for people using satellite data
FREEDOM (1U): Demonstrate a de-orbit devices using a thin-film unfolding mechanism in space
WASEDA-SAT3 (1U): Image projection on the surface of a drag chute with a micro-projector

Manufacturing Device: With ground support, the crew was able to recover the Manufacturing Device capability.  The crew was able to trim the printing filament to prevent jamming then they reinstalled the canister into the 3-D printer.  Ground teams report that the Manufacturing Device is ready for printing operations.  Manufacturing Device consists of the Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF), a permanent manufacturing facility on the ISS, providing hardware manufacturing services. The ability to manufacture on the ISS enables on-demand repair and production capability, as well as essential research for manufacturing on long-term missions. AMF allows for immediate repair of essential components, upgrades of existing hardware, installation of new hardware that is manufactured, and the manufacturing capability to support commercial interests on the ISS.
Advanced Colloids Experiment Temperature Control-1 (ACE-T-1) Module Installation: On Tuesday, the crew successfully replaced the failed Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Image Processing and Storage Unit (IPSU).  Today, the crew replaced the ACE-T-1 module with the next experiment module that was flown up on HTV-6.  ACE-T-1 studies tiny suspended particles which have been designed by scientists to connect themselves in a specific way to form organized structures within water. The particles that were flown on HTV-6 are cylindrical in shape, versus bullet-shaped as the previous ACE-T-1 module investigated.  Materials having complex structures and unique properties potentially can be made with more knowledge of how these particles are joined together and the conditions which control their behaviors. FIR is a complementary fluid physics research facility designed to host investigations in areas such as colloids, gels, bubbles, wetting and capillary action, and phase changes, including boiling and cooling. 
Aerosol Sampling: Today was the fourth of five Active Aerosol Sampler (AAS) deployments.  The samplers were placed in the LAB and Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) near the deployed Passive Samplers. The LAB location was chosen to capture particle samples for a “typical” day, to compare with a LAB sampling session performed on December 8.  The PMM location was chosen to capture particle samples in a “low people traffic” area, i.e. stowage. The battery powered AAS, actively pulls in air and collects particles using the principal of thermophoresis. This is accomplished by flowing the sampled air through a large thermal gradient in a narrow channel. During this process, particles are driven to the cold side of the channel, where an electron microscope (EM) grid is held in place by a tiny magnet. When returned to Earth, these grids are easily removed and placed directly in the EM for analysis.
Node 1 (N1) Galley Rack Operations: The crew completed steps to provide Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) utilities to the N1 Galley Rack. They routed ITCS Jumpers from the N1 Forward Port Alcove into, and along, the Deck Port Standoff area to the Utility Interface Panel on the rack which will provide Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) cooling to the rack. Per the plan, no connections were made to the Galley Rack or Node 1 Forward Port Alcove QDs which will be planned in the future. 
H-2 Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Cargo Operations: The crew has unloaded all cargo from the vehicle. They are now ready to load the vehicle. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Crew Evaluation of New Food Items
Video Footage of Greetings
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
EKON-M. Observations and photography
PAO hardware setup
Personal CO2 Monitor iPad Application Restart
Crew Prep for PAO
Aerosol Samplers Battery Charge
TV conference  Russian Father Frost Greetings to the ISS Crew (S + Ku-band)
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring
SARCOLAB. PL and Laptop Activation
Measuring Partial CO Pressure at RS Central Post using US portable CSA-CP analyzer
Audit of Docking and Internal Transfer System (ССВП) Items
SARCOLAB. Initiate Battery Discharge
CARDIOVECTOR. Experiment
Manufacturing Device Filament Trim.
SARCOLAB. Removing MARES knee mechanisms
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Full Fill
LEHX SERIAL CABLE CONNECTION BETWEEN JEM  TEPCCONTROL UNIT AND MEDICAL LAPTOP
HRF2 Supply Kit Inventory
PILOT-T. Preparation for the experiment
MRM2 comm config to support the P/L Ops
Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Run
Galley Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Jumper Installation
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops
Story Time Too Much of a Good Thing Read
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – ESA Nutritional Assessment
KULONOVSKYI KRISTALL. Copying data to removable hard drive
Hardware stowage for disposal in Progress 433 and IMS updates
Fluid Shifts Dilution Measures Reference Material Review
XF305 Camcorder Setup
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Extension to JPM Side
Fluid Shifts Dilution Measures Setup
SSOD MLI removal from Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform
SSOD One Deployer onto Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Removal
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations – Subject
Aerosol Active Samplers Hardware Installation
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Open
JEM SSOD Multi – 4 Deployers onto Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Installation Part 1
SARCOLAB. Battery Discharge Status
Inspection of SM space behind panels for contamination
В3 Fan Screen Cleaning in MRM2
SARCOLAB. Columbus – Stowage
LMM ACE-T1 Module Changeout
СОЖ maintenance
Inventory Management System (IMS) Conference
Dose Tracker Data Entry Subject
Fluids Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
SARCOLAB. Files transfer verification and shutdown
PILOT-T. Experiment Ops
VEG-03 Plant Photo
Space Headaches – Weekly Questionnaire
CIR Endoscope Handover
Personal CO2 Monitor Doff
Russian Endoscope (PCE-VE-330) Charging Initiate.
SARCOLAB. PEMS and EMG Stowage
PAO HD Config LAB Setup
PAO Preparation
PAO Event in HD – Lab
SARCOLAB. EPM Laptop relocation for file downlink prep
JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) Retraction from JPM Side
Photo Equipment Cleaning Set Audit
PILOT-T. Closeout Ops
MARES disconnection and stowage
EMU LLB Charge Terminate
SARCOLAB. Hardware Stowage Assistance
EMU LLB Charge Initiate
Delta file prep
BSA Operation Termination
ЭА025М ЗУ2Б (А56) R&R Prep in FGB
CONTENT. Experiment Ops
REBA Installation
Russian Endoscope (PCE-VE-330) Charging Terminate.

Completed Task List Items

Holter swap
TOCA WRS data record
EVA CLPA IVA unpack
PBRE test module exchange
WHC KTO R&R

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Galley rack ops support

