
Rodent Research 6 (RR-6):  In support of the on-going RR-6 investigation, the crew removed the mice and restocked the rodent habitats with new food bars in addition to cleaning the lids and interiors cages of the habitats. The Rodent Research-6 (RR-6) mission uses mice flown aboard the International Space Station (ISS) and maintained on Earth to test drug delivery systems for combatting muscular breakdown in space or during disuse conditions. RR-6 includes several groups of mice selectively treated with a placebo or implanted with a nanochannel drug delivery chip that administers compounds meant to maintain muscle in low gravity/disuse conditions.
Amyloid Sample Transfer: To prepare for incubation activities tomorrow, today four Amyloid samples were retrieved from the -95 degree Celsius Dewar of the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and installed into the +2 degree Celsius Dewar of the MELFI.  Amyloid fibril is the protein aggregation that is known to be associated with various diseases including Alzheimer’s disease and diabetes. To develop treatments for Alzheimer’s disease, it is important to elucidate the mechanism of amyloid fibril formation. In this study, aiming to elucidate the mechanism of amyloid fibril formation, we will prepare the high-quality homogeneous amyloid fibrils using microgravity environment, and bring back the samples to characterize the fibrillation process and intermediate structure by NMR and electron microscopic analyses.
Cell Science Validation Bag Change-Out Operations: The crew replaced the Bioculture System Cassette media and sump bags in the MSG with the media and sump bags from an ambient stowage container. After the bags were changed out, the cassettes were transferred back into the Bioculture System. This flight of the Bioculture System is to validate the hardware by testing and checking out its engineering and operational capability to maintain cell cultures for a long duration in the space flight environment on the ISS. Furthermore, the new enabling capabilities and procedures to manually conduct experiments with the specimens cultured in the Bioculture System will be demonstrated.  Overall, the validation of the performance of the Bioculture System in the space flight environment is a critical step to insure the success of future space bioscience experiments that will be conducted on ISS using this facility.
Space Test Program – H5 (STP-H5) Innovative Coatings Experiment (ICE): The crew photographed ICE material strips on STP-H5 from the Cupola and Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) windows.  The harsh radiation and extreme temperatures of space can corrode the paint and coatings that protect spacecraft exteriors, potentially damaging a spacecraft’s hull. Optical coatings are also important for robotic and human navigators, who would rely on specialized markings to capture or repair spacecraft. The STP-H5 ICE investigation studies new coatings for use on spacecraft in low Earth orbit, determining their stability after 2 years in space.  Photographs are taken at 60-day intervals. 
Earth Imagery from ISS Target Operations: Using the RED camera, the crew took images of Italy and the Nile Delta. This investigation creates a series of videos, showcasing Earth from space. These videos are taken with cameras on the ISS in 6K hi-resolution, then integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement.
NanoRacks External Platform (NREP)-3: The crew pressurized the Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) and performed a leak check today in preparation for return of the slide table and the (NREP)-3 into the JEM.  The Cavalier Space Processor, a passive remote sensor with onboard processing capability, will be installed on the NREP-3, which will be attached to the JEM External Facility next week.  NREP represents the first external commercial research capability for testing in support of scientific investigations, sensors, and electronic components in space. 
Node 3 Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Maintenance:  The crew removed and replaced the WHC urine receptacle and insert filter. This was nominally planned periodic maintenance.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: This afternoon, Ground Controllers will translate the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 4 (WS4) to WS6 in preparation for Dragon external cargo activities scheduled for the next few days.  Once the MT is positioned at WS6, the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) will be configured for external Dragon cargo operations.  They will unstow Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and setup for Total & Spectral solar Irradiance Sensor (TSIS) extraction from the Dragon trunk. They also will perform a Dragon Trunk Camera checkout and Dragon Trunk cargo survey.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Life On The Station Photo and Video
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
SCENARIO. Observations and photography
БВН grille cleaning in Soyuz 734
URAGAN. Observation and photography
ECON-M. Observation and photography
Prepare and activate SM [КСПЭ] camcorder (for TV PAO “QDC Removal” in mpeg2 format
Virus Definition File Update on Auxiliary Computer System [ВКС] Laptops and report
Rodent Research Node 2 Camcorder Video Setup
Daily Planning Conference
JEM Airlock Press
Rodent Research Habitat 1 & 2 Restock
Progress 436 Activation, Air Duct Removal
ISS Crew Orientation
Cell Science Validation Bag Ops Review 2
Soyuz 737 transfer ops, IMS update
ISS CREW/SSIPC CONFERENCE
Removal of Quick Disconnect Screw Clamps in the Docking and Internal Transfer System  [ССВП].  SM Aft – Progress 436 interface Video Recording
JEM Airlock Leak Check
SM Aft – Progress 436 (DC) Hatches Close
ПрК-СУ and Progress-СУ Hatch Leak Check
Handover of Increment 54 Crew
[КСПЭ] camcorder, TV-system control hardware deactivation and application shutdown
ИП-1 sensors positioning check
Rodent Research Habitat 3 & 4 Restock
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config JEM Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – JEM
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment Setup. Tagup with specialists
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Assistance During the Experiment
HRF Generic Frozen Blood Collection Setup
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Two-Phase Flow Experiment Equipment Deactivation
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Experiment Ops on БД-2 (MO-3 test in passive mode). Tagup with specialists
PROFILAKTIKA-2. Closeout Ops. Tagup with specialists
Cell Science Validation Glacier Sample Removal
Cell Science Validation Bag Change Out Ops Session2
Amyloid sample Retrieval from MELFI -95 degrees C.
Amyloid sample Insertion into MELFI +2 degrees C.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis
Cyclops ICE Experiment Photos
Amyloid Item Gathering
MELFI 3 Ice Brick Retrieve
Microbial Tracking-2 Saliva Setup
Cargo Transfer to Dragon
HRF Generic Urine Collection Setup First Time
Personal CO2 Monitor iPad Data Collection
Filling (separation) of ЕДВ (КОВ) for Elektron or ЕДВ-СВ
Preparation for replacement of low frequency telemetry receiving/processing unit [БПИ НЧ]. Tagup with specialists as necessary
СОЖ Maintenance
APEX-05 Spare Petri Plate Photo
CONTENT. Experiment ops
Soyuz 737 transfer ops with IMS update
Public Affairs Office (PAO) High Definition (HD) Config LAB Setup
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event in High Definition (HD) – Lab
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Profile of Mood States (POMS) Questionnaire
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Manufacturing Device Locker Move
Made In Space Fiber Optics Locker and Cable Setup
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Sample Data Record
Manufacturing Device Locker Move
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference 

Completed Task List Activities

None

Ground Activities
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.


Standard commanding
JEM Airlock Pressurization

