12-28-2010December 28, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/28/10  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    FE-4 Dmitri Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dima will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]  At wake-up, CDR Scott Kelly, FE-5 Paolo Nespoli & FE-6 Cady Coleman completed their 3rd post-sleep shift session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Nespoli continued his controlled diet for his first (FD15) Pro K session.  His diet menu is being recorded on his diet log over the next 2 days.  Later, Paolo set up the gear for his first 24-hr urine collections, starting tomorrow.     [For Pro K, there will be five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet & urine pH logging and photography on the last day.  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]  Before breakfast & exercise, Alex, Oleg, Dmitri & Paolo each completed a 10-min session with the periodic Russian MedOps test "Hematokrit" (MO-10), which measures the red cell count of the blood, with one of them acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer, Russian: “Examiner”).  It was the first session for FE-4 & FE-5, the second for FE-1 & FE-2.     [The blood samples were drawn from a finger with a perforator lancet, then centrifuged in two microcapillary tubes in the M-1100 kit's minicentrifuge, and its hematocrit value was read off the tubes with a magnifying glass.  It is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell count (normal range: 30-45%) tends to go down over time.  After the exam, the data were saved in the IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).]  Kelly supported ground-controlled video checkouts of the CBEF IU Micro-G (Cell Biology Experiment Facility / Incubator Unit for Micro-G) in Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) by JAXA/SSIPC (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center/Tsukuba).    [Activities included detaching & attaching an MEU B (Measurement Experiment Unit B) three times during the day, plus detaching 2 MEU B units from CBEF IU 1G after their checkout.]  The CDR conducted a search for a missing tool (a “modified crow's foot”), required for adjusting the T2/COLBERT treadmill’s upper isolators during centering.   In the Kibo JPM, Kelly performed the periodic setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) payload with Sample 3.    [The checkup includes image transfer, camera battery and camera/flash position.  It is scheduled daily starting at Initiation+1 day during automated photography.  Pictures are currently being taken automatically of Sample 3 for 144 hrs (6 days).]  Later, Scott also serviced the ARED advanced resistive exerciser by doing the periodic evacuation of its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition & sensor calibration.  FE-1 Kaleri terminated the overnight (10-hr) charging of the Kelvin-Video battery for the Russian KPT-12 payload with its BAR science instruments suite, then spent several hours taking measurements, first in the MRM2 Poisk module with the remote IR (Infrared) Kelvin-Video thermometer, later in MRM1 Rassvet with the AU ultrasound analyzer.  Data were downlinked, and the activities were supported by ground specialist tagup.  Recharge of the Kelvin-Video battery was then set up, to be terminated by sleeptime.    [Objective of the Russian KPT-12/BAR science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Besides KPT-2 Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]  FE-2 Skripochka activated the Kenwood D700 ”Sputnik” amateur radio station in the SM (Service Module) and started the second run of the Russian KPT-14 SHADOW-BEACON (Tenj-Mayak) experiment.  Before sleeptime, after an 11h40m run, Oleg will deactivate the hardware.    [Objective of the experiment is the automatic retranslation of time tag (pre-planned executable) packets from ground stations.  SHADOW (or ECLIPSE), sponsored by Roskosmos and its leading Moscow research organization TSNIIMASH (Central Research Institute of Machine Building), employs VHF amateur radio (ham) operators around the globe (via ARISS/Amateur Radio on ISS) to help in observing refraction/scattering effects in artificial plasmas using the method of RF (radio frequency) sounding in space experiments under different geophysical conditions.  This is the experiment’s 4th run, after Fyodor Yurchikhin conducted it for the third time on Exp-25 last October, preceded by FE Yuri Malenchenko on Exp-16 in November 2007 and Mikhail Tyurin on Exp-14 in November 2006.]  Afterwards, Kondratyev & Skripochka got together for several hours to review preparatory material for the next Russian spacewalk, EVA-27, currently scheduled for 1/21, then proceeded to search for and collect equipment & tools required for the external activities.     [Scheduled tasks for RS EVA-27 by Dima & Oleg are: (1) Installation of the RSPI radio data transmission system for the SVPI Napor experiment (a system for high-speed information transmission) on the SM RO (Working Compartment); (2) Photographing the SM plasma pulse injector monoblock (IPI-SM), placing a protective cover on, then deactivating & removing the monoblock from the portable workstation in Plane II of the SM RO; (3) Placing the protective cover on the EXPOSE-R monoblock, then deactivating & removing the monoblock from the portable workstation; and (4) Installing/connecting a TV camera at the MRM1 ASP passive docking unit side.  Two potential jettison items are the protective cover of the SVPI high-speed data transmission system unit and the cable reel for the RSPI radio transmission system.]  Paolo Nespoli conducted Part 1 of the periodic noise level measurements survey in the ISS interior for Week 14, using the SLM (Sound Level Meter) equipment.   Data download to the MEC was a subsequent activity.     [A total of 60 acoustic measurements are to be obtained in Parts 1 & 2, specifically at 9 locations in the Lab, with WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) turned off, 10 in the JPM, 7 in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), 10 in Node-2, 8 in Node-3, 4 in Node-1, and 12 in SM.  The SLM gives instantaneous noise levels and their frequency spectra, which are transferred to the MEC laptop via an RS232 cable and later downlinked with regular CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) data dump or via OCA.  No exercise was allowed during the SLM survey, to avoid corrupting the acoustic measurements],   Later, Nespoli & Coleman reviewed reference material for the upcoming ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) sessions.      [Goal of the ICV experiment is to quantify the extent, time course, and clinical significance of cardiac atrophy and identify its mechanisms.  The ICV experiment consists of two separate but related activities over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan & an ambulatory monitoring session.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD15, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there are fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).]  In COL, Cady Coleman set up & readied the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware, including MBS (Mixing Bag System), for her first session with the VO2max assessment, integrated with Thermolab, scheduled tomorrow.     [The experiment VO2max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% & 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]  Scott Kelly, in two segments, worked on three CWCs-I (Contingency Water Containers-Iodine, #2010, #2011, #2017) to “degas” them, i.e. to remove any free air bubbles that may have been ingested since their last use.  This became necessary since the water in the bags is reaching its expiration date and needs to be used.    [The traditional procedure for “degassing” the container by first draining, then refilling it with a fully charged water CWC was replaced in 2004 by a rather ingenious new procedure developed and checked out on the KC-135 aircraft flying zero-G parabolas at JSC/Houston: Essentially, it involves the crewmember himself centrifuging the selected container by holding it away from the body and applying a slow rotation of ~15 rpm to himself, to separate air and water in the bag through centrifugal force, while simultaneously squeezing out the air by cinching down on bungee cords wrapped around the CWC.]  CDR Kelly broke out and set up the equipment for the periodic 30-min US PHS (Periodic Health Status)/Without Blood Labs exam, for which he is scheduled tomorrow.    [The assessment uses the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data are then logged on the MEC and the hardware stowed.  The PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.]  In the US Lab, Scott Kelly conducted IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the MSS1/FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack) racks, removing a lower right bridge bracket (with damaged threads) between the racks (loc. D4) and replacing it with a scavenged bridge bracket from the Lab standoff link at loc. OP.  Continuing work on the BSPN Payload Server in SM, which had received new software recently to upgrade the BSPN’s HDD (Hard Disk Drive) backup partitions, Alex Kaleri today upgraded the software on the HDD primary partition, then tagged up with ground specialists via S-Band.  Afterwards, Alex completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]  FE-1 also did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  Kondratyev initiated charging the DZZ-12 Rusalka payload battery for another observation session scheduled tomorrow.    [RUSALKA (Mermaid) is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere.]  Scott Kelly continued to provide Inc-26 crew handover information to newly-arrived crewmembers Paolo Nespoli and Cady Coleman, today for about 1hr.  Paolo & Cady had their free time for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.  At ~4:45am EST, Dmitri Kondratyev had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).  FE-1, FE-2, FE-4 & FE-5 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Paolo at ~10:45am, Oleg at ~12:10pm, Alex at ~12:55pm, Dima at ~1:15pm EST.   At ~1:30pm EST, Kelly, Coleman & Nespoli supported a PAO TV event, fielding questions from an audience assembled at The Great Lakes Science Center (GLSC) in Cleveland, OH, consisting of a mix of K-9 students with families and general public.  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).     [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]   CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded today were Florida and Cuba at night (looking left of track for the Florida Keys and mainland Florida; then nadir for the Havana region of Cuba), Red Basin cities, Central China at night (looking right of track for the numerous cities in the Red Basin of central China.  The largest city is Chongqing), and Uzbekistan–Bangladesh at night (looking at nadir for the cluster of towns around the Uzbek capital city of Tashkent.  Then looking right of track for the numerous cities of Bangladesh, based on the brightest zones (capital city Dhaka nearer track, and Calcutta further off track).)  