
Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint (TRRJ) Repositioning for Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS)-02: Due to the high negative beta angle, the AMS team requested that the Starboard-Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint (S-TRRJ) be moved to a better angle to provide a more optimal temperature for the Transition Radiation Detector (TRD) pump.  Ground teams will continue to monitor the TRD pump temperature, and will be required to activate the pump if the temperature reaches 7° Celsius resulting in a loss of science.  AMS-02 has collected and analyzed billions of cosmic ray events, and identified 9 million of these as electrons or positrons (anti-matter). The number of high energy positons increases steadily rather than decaying, conflicting with theoretical models and indicates a yet to be identified source of positrons. Researchers also observed a plateau in the positron growth curve and need additional data to determine why. Results suggest that high-energy positrons and cosmic ray electrons may come from different and mysterious sources. Solving the origin of cosmic rays and antimatter increases understanding of our galaxy.
ISS RapidScat: The RapidScat payload, located on the nadir Columbus Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) went into a Digital Interface Bridge (DIB) only mode on 24 December, with no science collection or antenna spinning due to a combination of the high negative beta and the ISS attitude with a yaw-bias for Service Module shadowing.  Ground teams reactivated RapidScat today to the nominal wind-gathering observation mode.  ISS RapidScat is a space-based scatterometer that measures wind speed and direction over the ocean, and is useful for weather forecasting, hurricane monitoring, and observations of large-scale climate phenomena. The ISS RapidScat instrument enhances measurements from other international scatterometers by cross-checking their data, and demonstrates a unique way to replace an instrument aboard an aging satellite.
Sprint Ultrasound:  Kopra performed his Flight Day (FD) 14 thigh and calf ultrasound scans with assistance from Kelly and guidance from the Sprint ground team.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of the long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
Skin-B:  Peake performed his first Skin-B activity, completing Corneometer measurements of the hydration level of the stratus coreum (outer layer of the skin), Tewameter measurements of the skin barrier function, and Visioscan measurements of skin surface topography. The European Space Agency (ESA) Skin-B investigation aims to improve the understanding of skin aging, which is greatly accelerated in space.  The data will also be used to verify the results from previous SkinCare investigation testing on the ISS.
Sleep Actiwatch Downlink and Configuration: Kelly downloaded data from his and Kornienko’s Actiwatch Spectrums and configured the devices to continue collecting data.  The actiwatches have a photodiode that measures ambient light and an accelerometer to measure the movement of the arm or leg to which the watch is attached.  The actiwatch data recorded on the watch supports the Sleep ISS-12 experiment which assesses the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
Education Payloads Operations (EPO) Destination Space:  Peake recorded video that will provide the raw film footage for videos created on the ground for use in Destination Space educational shows and workshops for school groups and families.
Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition):  This afternoon Peake will perform his FD 13 session of the Cognition experiment.  The investigation is a battery of tests that measures how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
Biochemical Profile and Cardio Ox:  Kopra performed his FD 15 blood and urine collections for the Biochem Profile and Cardio Ox investigations.  The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts.
Microbiome and Salivary Markers: Blood and saliva samples were collected from Kopra to support the Microbiome, Telomeres and Salivary Markers investigations. Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).  Telomeres investigates how telomeres and telomerase are affected by space travel.  Salivary Markers data will be used to identify any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection:  Peake conducted a regular inspection of the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Extension Hose Tee Kit (EHTK), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), and Pre-Breathe Masks.  Pre-Breathe Masks are not emergency equipment, but have similar maintenance requirements and are included in this inspection.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Kelly configured a lithium-ion battery charger and initiated an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) charge cycle.  The activity was performed in preparation for the Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) EVA planned for January 15th.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Morning Inspection. SM ПСС (Caution & Warning Panel) Test
SLEEP Questionnaire
Morning Inspection, RSS1,2 Reboot / r/g 0860
Morning Inspection, Laptop RS1(2) Reboot / Onboard Computer System
HRF – Sample Collection and Prep for Stowage Insertion
Reminder – ARED Photo/TV
HRF – Sample Insertion into MELFI
HRF- Urine Sample Collection
HRF – Sample Insertion into MELFI
HRF. Centrifuge Setup and Blood Collection FE-5
HRF – Closeout Ops
HRF – Centrifuge Configuration
CORRECTSIA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medication) Intake / r/g 0974
Fine Motor Skills Reminder
HRF – Centrifuge Configuration
Video Footage for Nauka 2.0 TV Channel / r/g 0977
Progress 429 (SM Aft) Transfers and IMS Ops / Progress 429 Transfers (РПР) + r/g 0157, 0158
HRF – Sample Insertion into MELFI
KONTROL. Switching Indicator-ISS P/L measuring modes / r/g 0997
WRS. Waste Water Tank Drain, Init
EPO. Recording Video
MRM2 comm config to support the P/L Ops / Communications System
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Experiment Ops.r/g 0991
HRF – Blood Sample Collection Closeout Ops
USND2 – Hardware Activation
HRF – Sample Insertion into MELFI
Fine Motor Skills Experiment Test Subject
WRS. Waste Water Tank Drain, Term
SPRINT- Set up and measurement
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops / Communications System
SKNB- Setup and Measurements
SPRINT – Operator Assistance with the Experiment
DAN. Experiment Ops.  Tagup with specialists. / r/g 0119
DAN. Experiment Operator Assistance. / r/g 0119
Cycle Ergometer ВБ-3М R&R. Tagup with specialists. / r/g 0992
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Copy and Downlink Data via РСПИ / r/g 0991
ER6-DVD- Software Installation
Photo T/V ARED Exercise Video Setup
FMK Deployment Ops
HRF – Blood Collection Stowage
GSC Sampling Operations
HRF – Equipment stowage after sample collection
24-hour ECG Monitoring (start) / r/g 0985
HABIT – Experiment Ops
PAO hardware setup.  Tagup with specialists. / See OPTIMIS Viewer for Procedure
ER6- DVD Swap
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
EMU Backpack Replacement
USND2 – Hardware Deactivation
Multi-Gas Monitor Power Reset
24-hour BP monitoring (start) / r/g 0986
Crew Prep for PAO / r/g 0993
PAO Event with the 1 Year Mission crew / r/g 0993
CORRECTSIA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake / r/g 0974
On-orbit Hearing Assessment using EARQ
ER6- Closeout Ops
Video Footage for NAUKA 2.0 TV / r/g 0977
Cyclops Locate
Crew Prep for PAO
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Proficiency Training
Filling (separation) of EDV (KOV) for Elektron or EDV-SV r/g 0994
Vacuum Pressure Gauge Accuracy Check / r/g 0983
PAO Hardware Setup
PAO Event
Preparation for protective mechanical cover installation on RS ПН28-120 power converter (equipment search and gathering, r/g review) r/g 0995
Crew Time for ISS Adaptation and Orientation
Start EMU Battery Charge
EPO- Photo Session
СОЖ Maintenance
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
GLACIER2 – Desiccant Replacement
Photo/TV Camcorder Setup Verification
Exercise Data Downlink via OCA
ARED video [Deferred]
Cleaning FGB ЦВ1 Circulation Fan Screens / FGB System Operations
GLACIER – Desiccant Replacement
Inspection of Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) and Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE)
SLEEP – Configuration and Data Download
IMS Delta File Prep
Crew Time for ISS Adaptation and Orientation
NEIROIMMUNITET. CORRECTSIA. Experiment Setup / r/g 0996
Daily Planning Conference (S-band)
COGNITION – Experiment Ops and Filling Questionnaire
COGNITION – Photo Documentation
CORRECTSIA. Logging Liquid and Food (Medicine) Intake / r/g 0974
NEIROIMMUNITET. Saliva Test / r/g 0996
NEIROIMMUNITET. Setup. Starting 24-hr ECG Recording r/g 0996

 
Completed Task List Items

ESA PAO pre-recorded messages

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal system commanding

