
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) white light source replacement:  During Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE-M3) operations last week, the white light lamp burned out.  Today, Wilmore opened up the FIR and replaced the lamp, enabling operations to continue.  In the ACE-M-3 investigation, a model colloidal system is used to observe the microscopic behavior of liquids and gases separating from each other, near the critical point, via a process called spinodal decomposition. Previous ISS experiments observed the macroscopic behavior for weeks of slow separation, while this experiment looks at the level of individual particles, with the aid of a new microscope that allows observation of the behavior at short times. The ISS is a unique environment for these experiments, as liquids and gases of the same material almost invariably have different densities, and the lack of gravity prevents sedimentation.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (KP) Sample Initiation: Wilmore set up the BCAT Module for the BCAT-KP investigation, homogenized sample 5 and set up the camera intervalometer to initiate automated pictures. BCAT-KP provides a platform for material and industrial scientists to investigate colloid phase changes, providing results that may be used to develop new colloidal materials and formulations with unique properties. The results may support new applications, from new liquid crystals to consumer goods having longer shelf life and uses.
Columnar-to-Equiaxed Transition in Solidification Processing (CETSOL) sample removal:  Cristoforetti removed the CETSOL sample 6 which was processed in the Microgravity Science Laboratory (MSL) on GMT days 328 and 329 (November 24 and 25).  This is the final sample in the currently planned set of samples for processing in MSL, and will be returned on SpaceX-5.  The CETSOL investigation aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. The patterns of the crystals resulting from transitions of liquids to solids is of substantial importance to processes in producing materials such as solar cells, thermoelectrics, and metal alloys.
Circadian Rhythms:  Cristoforetti donned the Circadian Rhythms equipment and will wear it for 36 hours. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
ATV and Dragon cargo operations:  Virts and Wilmore performed cargo operations to prepare hardware for loading on ATV-5 and pre-pack for return on Dragon.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Inspection of СМ-У connector on МНР-НС behind panel 139 АСУ and pipe line 5182-03 from ДКиВ to МНР in its transparent section
RELAKSATSIYA. Charge battery for “Relaksatsiya” experiment / r/g 6827
HRF- urine sample collection & install in MELFI
Photo/video Life on the Station / r/g 7290
Comm. config for communication from МRМ2 for experiment session
HMS Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test
FIR – Replace one of the FIR White Light
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Experiment ops. / r/g 7505
ESA – weekly crew conference
Nikon photo camera sensor dust contamination monitoring / r/g 7512
RELAKSATSIYA. Parameter settings / r/g 7508
CIR alignment guide removal
Remove items from panel prior to installing overlay sheets on FGB interior panel (p.104).
RELAKSATSIYA. Monitoring / r/g 7508
Comm. config. for communication from МRМ1
VIZIR. Experiment ops. / r/g 7506
Restoration of nominal attachment for ЦВ3 fan in МRМ1. / r/g 7507
HRF- urine sampling
BCAT – Binary Colloidal Alloy Test Sample Initialization
JSL- Joint Station LAN (JSL) Network Monitoring System (NMS) Laptop Recovery
ELITE-S2 – Hardware gather
PE data downlink / r/g 6797
МRМ1 comm. reconfig to nominal
СПО МИС test verification on RSOS ISS. / r/g 7514
ATV transfer ops
WRS – fill from EDV for processing
MSL – sample retrieve
Installation of overlay sheets on FGB interior panel (p.104)
RODENT RESEARCH – Habitat change
USOS EVA conference
Dragon equipment prep
Comm. check with JEM S/G from SSIPC and МCC-H
ATV flow measurement
HRF- equipment set up
PROBOJ. Ops with RSЕ1 laptop. / r/g 7509
PROBOJ. Ops with penetration simulator / r/g 7510
ATV transfer conference
SPLANKH. Experiment prep / r/g 7511
CMS – Т2 nuts adjustment and apply witness marks
Thermolab – ops with Circadian Rythm instrumentation
Ku-band cable reconnect

Completed Task List Items

COL- HDVCA adapter installation
ESA EPO S1/5
Locate NPV plate [Not found]
NMS Laptop Recover [In Work]
PIP-Nod3 HW-Deploy
T61P Battery Audit

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Nominal commanding

