12-23-2009December 23, 2009
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/23/09  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Full rest day for the crew.  Sleep/rest period began this morning at 3:00am EST and extends until tomorrow at the usual 1:00am.   Yest kasaniye! Soyuz TMA-17/21S docked successfully last evening at 5:48pm EST at the FGB nadir port, 6 minutes ahead of schedule.  Additionally, Soyuz TMA-16/20S is docked at SM (Service Module) Aft port, Progress 35P at DC-1 Nadir.  TMA-17 delivered Exp-22 crewmembers FE-6 TJ Creamer (USA), FE-4 Oleg Kotov (Russia) & FE-5 Soichi Noguchi (Japan).   After about 1h 42 min spent in Soyuz on pre-transfer activities, hatches were opened at 7:30pm and the crew transferred to the ISS.  This was followed by the traditional joyful welcome event and the installation of the BZV QD (quick disconnect) clamps of the docking & internal transfer mechanism (SSVP) by Suraev, to rigidize the joint.    [Shortly after "kasaniye" (contact), automatic "sborka" (closing of Soyuz & FGB port hooks & latches) took place while ISS was in free drift.  Attitude control authority had been handed over to the Russian MCS (Motion Control System) at ~2:50pm and was returned to US CMG control at ~7:15pm.  For the docking, Russian thrusters were disabled during Soyuz volume pressurization & clamp installation; they were afterwards returned to active attitude control.  Before hatch opening, the crew performed leak checks of the Soyuz modules and the Soyuz/FGB interface vestibule.  They then doffed their Sokol suits and set them up for drying, deactivated the BOA/Atmosphere Purification Unit in the SA/Descent Module, replaced the Soyuz ECLSS LiOH cartridges, equalized Soyuz/ISS pressures, and put the spacecraft into conservation mode on ISS integrated power.]  ISS Crew Planning/Look-ahead:  For Roskosmos & RSC–Energia, the successful TMA-17 mission represents a significant record-breaking event: Four Soyuz launches & dockings (18S-21S) in a year exceed the best in the Soviet days.  Another four launches are planned for 2010 (22S-25S).  With CDR Williams and FE-1 Suraev, we now have five crewmembers on board for the next 74 days.  After Williams & Suraev return on 3/18/10 on 20S, Creamer, Kotov & Noguchi will remain alone for another 17 days, until they are joined by Skvortsov, Kornienko & Caldwell, arriving on 4/4 on Soyuz 22S.  Kotov, Noguchi & Creamer will then depart on 5/31 on 21S, leaving a crew size of three until arrival of Wheelock, Yurchikhin & Walker on 6/16 on 23S.  After the successful docking at the FGB nadir port –    CDR Williams downlinked recorded onboard video via MPC (Multiple-Protocol Converter) and Ku-band;FE-1 Suraev, working off his discretionary task list, transmitted the crew arrival video to the ground, and alsoSwitched hatch KVDs (Pressure Equalization Valves) between FGB and Soyuz back to electric control mode;The crew opened the Soyuz-FGB transfer tunnel hatches (~7:30pm);Both crews then joined for the obligatory Safety Briefing of the newcomers by Jeff Williams, to familiarize them with procedures and escape routes in case of an emergency;FE-4 Kotov set up the three Sokol spacesuits and their gloves for drying out, and he alsoDeactivated the Soyuz “orbitalniy polyot” (spacecraft);The CDR spent about an hour with TJ & Soichi on handover activities, i.e., situational & procedural familiarization of the newcomers with the station,Max Suraev downlinked TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) structural dynamics measurements and closed out the data take; andOleg, Soichi & Max worked about an hour on the first cargo transfers from the spacecraft to the station;  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.  