
Payloads:
Advanced Nano Step: The crew removed the Nano Step experiment cartridge and Nano Step specimen cell from the Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF) and stowed the items in The Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle-2 (FROST-2).  The Effects of Impurities on Perfection of Protein Crystals, Partition Functions, and Growth Mechanisms (Advanced Nano Step) experiment monitors and records how the incorporation of specific impurity molecules affect the development and quality of protein crystals as they grow in a quartz cell aboard the ISS. The crystals grown on the ISS are returned to Earth and characterized using synchrotron X-ray diffraction. The protein crystal and impurity interactions are managed and monitored jointly by both scientists on the ground and the ISS crew.
Bio-Analyzer: The crew collected a finger blood sample, processed the sample by mixing with reagents and centrifuging, and then analyzed the sample using the Bio-Analyzer system.  Two different samples were processed to confirm reliability.  Bio-Analyzer is a CSA onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS.  The instrument performs on-orbit quantification of biological molecules and cellular composition in samples collected and prepared aboard the ISS.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew reconfigured the cables on ELF to support a planned software load, and then put the ELF back in its nominal configuration.  ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids-4 (InSPACE-4):   The crew set the appropriate parameters and adjusted the camera field of view to begin processing of run 95.  InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Kubik setup: The crew set up Kubik-5 and Kubik-6 and connected them to the Multi-Purpose Computer Communication (MPCC) system.  Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator or cooler with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic microgravity investigations such as those using seeds, cells.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory/Sample Cartridge Assembly (MSRR/MSL/SCA): The crew exchanged SCAs to prepare for the next experiment run, currently scheduled for early next year.  The MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS.  The MSL can accommodate and support diverse experiment modules.  In this way many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
Systems: 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Return Prep Activities: Today crew performed preparation activities for EMU return on SpX-24. A suit reconfiguration was performed which consisted of the EMU Lower Torso Assembly disassembly and packing of Brief/Waist Assembly and Boots for SpX-24 return. The EMU was then prepped for installation into the Short EMU (SEMU) Launch Enclosure (SLE) by configuring the EMU for landing and installing ancillary hardware.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) In Flight Maintenance (IFM): As part of regularly scheduled preventative maintenance, the crew performed a manual WHC flush tank fill.  By using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as the burp, they depressurized the flush water tank and water valve block to protect the dose pump. This pump is critical as it injects the pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.
Lab Vestibule Leak Check: The crew successfully completed the Lab Vestibule Leak Checks today in order inspect seal integrity following damage revealed upon inspection of the Lab Forward and Lab Aft Hatch seals. The 65S and Crew-3 crews were isolated aft and forward of the Lab respectively. Access to life support and personal items was prepped, with CO2 and O2levels remaining within acceptable levels for the duration of the 4.5 isolation timeframe. Crew depressed the Node 1/Lab Vestibule to 5 psi and performed a leak check, followed by the Lab/Node 2 Vestibule depress using the Pressure Management Device (PMD). The crew then terminated the leak check and repressed for re-ingress, after which crew reopened the hatches and tore down and stowed the leak check support equipment.
Dragon SpX-24 Arrival Preparations: The crew completed SpX-24 Dragon On-Board Training (OBT) activities today, beginning with a review of rendezvous docking target assessment using Computer Based Training (CBT) and Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG). This was followed by a review of the ISS Homepage, Ops Product tab, Controlled Documents, and SpaceX Crew Dragon: Rendezvous and Departure CBT. These activities concluded with a debrief and Q&A between ISS crew members and SpX-24 ground team and instructors.
Completed Task List Activities:

IFM OGS Internal ACTEX Pre-Flush (12/18)
COL WOOV Audit (12/19)
Thermo-mini Headbands packing (12/19)
Vacuum Coordless Big Picture Words (12/19)
WHC Pump Separator R&R (12/19)
ESA PAO Message with Matthias Maurer (12/18, 12/19, 12/20)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

DDCU Powerdown
ARS Lab CDRA Deactivation
Enable Node 3 PPR and Node 2 Cabin Pressure cautions
THC IMV Reconfiguration
THC IMV Valve Reconfiguration
HD Video Downlink Expansion Checkout
Restore Node 3 PPR and Node 2 Cabin Pressure C&W to nominal configuration
VDS EHDC for ISS External Survey

