
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: Four Actiwatch Plus devices were connected to the HRF Payload Drawer on HRF Rack 1 to allow battery charging and data downlink. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. It contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
NanoRacks Module-51: Observations and photography were performed on the NanoRacks Module-51 experiment. NanoRacks Modules allow experimenters and students to perform extended on-orbit operations using space-proven hardware. Each individual module houses a unique experiment. Anything approved for transport to ISS can be incorporated into a module experiment, representing any fields of science. 
Plant Habitat-03A: The crew installed a new Science Carrier into the Plant Habitat Facility for Plant Habitat-03A Operations and water was added to the Distribution Reservoir. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food, air, and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Veg-05: The crew checked on the germination status of the seeds in the twelve plant pillows and added water as necessary. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: The crew used the Velocicalc tool to take Velocicalc measurements of selected USOS ventilation inlets and outlets as part of system health monitoring. In addition, the crew performed IMV inspections in the Airlock, Node 1, Cupola, Beam, NRAL, Node 3, OGS, Lab, Node 2, and Node 2 Forward & Overhead Visiting Vehicle. IMV refers to the air circulation between modules. The system consists primarily of a number of valves, fans, and air ducts that circulate air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that excessive moisture, heat, particulates, metabolic products, and contaminant can be removed from the atmosphere, smoke detection can be performed, and a homogenous conditioned atmospheric composition is maintained throughout the ISS.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Return to Service (RTS): The crew verified successful installation of the Fan Pump Separator (FPS) component in EMU 3009 by performing visual water leakage inspection, structural gas leakage test at the maximum operating suit pressure, and a long-duration leak check. High Speed EMU data from the serial data port from the EMU Data Recorder was used to verify suit telemetry. The EMU is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit.
JEM Experiment Logistics Module – Pressurized (JLP) Cabin Smoke Detector Cleaning: The crew removed the JLP cabin smoke detector to perform cleaning steps using Intra-Vehicular Activity (IVA) Connector Cleaner Tool Kit and associated IVA N2 Cartridge to supply bursts of N2 to remove particles. Smoke detectors sample the atmosphere for particles that might correspond to smoke from a fire. The smoke detectors sample the atmosphere within racks and in the open cabin and determine the amount of smoke using a light sensing sampling chamber or probe. Cleaning and proper maintenance play a critical role in ensuring better operations.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Water Refill Kit Habitat
EVA EMU RTS Operations
EMU Data Recorder Operations
SPDM Operations
SSRMS Walkoff
JEMAL Depress and Vent
PVCU Data Dump
Crew Dragon System Checkout
Cargo Dragon Solar Array Checkout
THC IMV Flow Measurement Survey
MSS Power Up and Maneuver

