
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Status:  This morning, crew reported that one of the two Vibration Isolation System dashpots on the left side of ARED was broken at the rod end.  As a result, the crew was unable to perform morning session ARED exercises.  Kopra and Kelly subsequently changed out the left and right side dashpots utilizing newer, more robust designed replacements to restore ARED functionality.
 
Marrow:  Peake took his Flight Day 9 blood and breath and air samples after waking today, in support of the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Marrow investigation.  This investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on human bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
 
Circadian Rhythms:  Peake doffed the Armband Monitor and Thermolab sensors and belt that he has worn for 36 hours and downloaded the recorded data.  Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
 
Neuromapping: Kelly completed a NeuroMapping Neurocognitive test on a Human Research Facility laptop today.  The Neuromapping experiment studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes any changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking; as well as measuring how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from those possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from crewmembers returning from a long-duration spaceflight suggests that movement control and cognition are affected in microgravity.
 
Radi-N Neutron Field Study (Radi-N):  Kornienko handed over eight Radi-N detectors to Kelly, who then deployed them in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) for the Radi-N experiment. This is the fourth of six RADI-N dosimeter deploys for Increments 45 and 46.  The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
 
Ocular Health Ocular and Cardiac Ultrasounds:  Kelly and Kornienko took ocular and cardiac ultrasounds as part of their series of Flight Day 270 Ocular Health tests.   The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risks of microgravity-induced visual impairment and increased intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Cardio Ox:  Kopra and Peake collected blood pressure and ultrasound measurements of their carotid and brachial arteries to support their Flight Day 15 Cardio Ox session.  The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans are obtained at the same time points and through 5 years after landing.
 
Spare Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) Checkout Teardown:  Following yesterday’s successful checkout of the spare SSU, Peake removed power and data cables, then stowed the spare SSU.  In addition, he relocated the Station Support Computer (SSC) used for the checkout back to its original location in Node 3.   The SSU was declared GO to replace SSU 1B during an Extravehicular Activity (EVA) planned for January 15th
 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

MARROW – Air Sampling
Reaction Self-Test
Biochemical Urine Test
HRF Urine Sample Collection
Biochemical Urine Test
URISYS Hardware Stowage
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
HRF – Centrifuge Setup Assistance
HRF Closeout Ops
HRF – Centrifuge Configuration
USND2 – Hardware Activation
FINEMOTR – Experiment Test
OTKLIK. Hardware Monitoring
HRF – Centrifuge Configuration
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
ISS crew and ГОГУ (RSA Flight Control Management Team) weekly conference
HRF – Blood Sample Collection Closeout Ops
Study of cardiovascular system under graded physical load on VELO
ТКГ 431 (DC1) Early Unstow and US Cargo Items Transfers and IMS Ops
HRF – Sample MELFI Insertion
Eye Imaging – Ultrasound Scan Prep
Ultrasound 2 – Scan
Ultrasound 2 – Scan performed by a Crew Medical Officer (CMO)
Deinstallation of Thermolab Instrumentation for Circadian Rhythms
Ultrasound Data Export
BIOME – Survey Questionnaire Completion
NMAP – Experiment Test
HRF – Hardware Setup
MRM2 comm config to support the P/L Ops
MATRYOSHKA-R. Gathering and Initialization of BUBBLE-dosimeter detectors.
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Experiment Ops
BIOME – Sampling Setup
ECLSS Recycle Tank Remove and Replace
RADIN – Handover of detectors to USOS for deployment
RADIN – Dosimeter Deployment
MATRYOSHKA-R. Handover of BUBBLE-dosimeters to USOS / r/g 0972
MATRYOSHKA-R. BUBBLE-dosimeter initialization and deployment for exposure
CIRCADIAN RHYTHMS – Equipment Stowage
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
DC1 Staging Area Setup, Transfer of Orlan 5 to DC1 and Deactivation of Orlan-4 and Orlan-5
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Copy and Downlink Data
Image Processing Unit (IPU) Hard Disk Exchange
Life On The Station Photo and Video
Eye Imaging – Ultrasound Scan Prep
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Eye Imaging (assistance)
Eye Imaging – Subject
Recovery of Orlan No. 5 ИК-0702М Measuring Unit Tagup with specialists
Ultrasound  Data Export
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
Eye Imaging – Closeout Ops
Checkout of Orlan-MK No.4 and No.5 ИК-0702М
Complete the Dose Tracker application – Subject
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
OH – Ocular Health Cardiac Operations
Ocular Health (OH) – Operator Assistance with the Experiment
Orlan No.5 Bladder Leak Check
Brine/urine transfer to Progress 429 (SM Aft) Rodnik H2O Tank 2
Bringing ODF up to date using ТКГ 431 delivered files
HRF – Blood Collection Stowage
Water Recovery System (WRS).  Drain Waste Water Tank, initiate
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Complete the Dose Tracker application – Subject
Post-EVA close-out ops with Orlan suits. .Return equipment in use to stowage location
Removal of depress hose for nominal operations
OBSTANOVKA. Checking Connection
IMS Delta File Prep
СОЖ Maintenance
Water Recovery System (WRS) Drain Waste Water Tank, terminate
OH-CARDIAC – Setup Ops
Ocular Health – Cardiac and Blood Pressure Operations
OH-CARDIAC – Measurement Ops
Date and Time Synch on 6 RS photo cameras to the station time
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill
Preventive maintenance of DC1- АСП-О and ТКГ 431 [ACA] hatch sealing mechanisms
Crew time for ISS adaptation and orientation
OH-CARDIAC – Closeout Ops
OH-CARDIAC – Data Export
SHD – Questionnaire
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Checkout
HABIT – Experiment Ops
USND2 – Hardware Deactivation
Reaction Self-Test (Sleep)
Installation of inserts to ease opening of SM interior panel locks (Unstow Элементы конструкции (Structural Elements) kit (004890R), ФГБ1ПГО_4_427_1, СТВ No.1112 (004106J)) / FGB IVA IFM Part 1 3.2 p. 3-2 (20)
Preparation of Reports for Roscosmos Web Site and Social Media
ODF Books Update on IPAD
Video Recording for All-Russia State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company (ВГТРК)

 
Completed Task List Items

SSU Checkout Teardown
ARED Dashpot R&R

 
Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted. 

Nominal system commanding

 
