12-23-2010December 23, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/23/10 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. FE-2 Oleg Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Oleg will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.] At wake-up, FE-1 Alex Kaleri terminated his 6th experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] Also at wake-up, CDR Scott Kelly completed his last post-sleep shift session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.] FE-5 Paolo Nespoli conducted Part 3 of the periodic personal acoustic measurement protocol, today downloading the recorded data from the three static dosimeters deployed yesterday, and stowing the instruments.      [Acoustic data are taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.] For the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), Kaleri conducted another active session, then downlinked video footage obtained with two SONY HVR-Z1J camcorders, in parts sequenced to RGS (Russian Groundsite) passes.      [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS (Russian Segment): condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.] Oleg Skripochka serviced the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet, downloading structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer before undocking to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.    [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.] Dmitri Kondratyev completed his first session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.       [Skripochka assisted in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes, applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit and taking documentary photography.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.] FE-1 Kaleri & FE-2 Skripochka also undertook the periodic (generally monthly) health test with the cardiological experiment PZEh MO-1 (“Study of the Bioelectric Activity of the Heart at Rest”) on exercise equipment, Alex’ & Oleg’s 2nd session.       [Equipment used was VPG/Temporal Pulsogram and 8-channel ECG/Electrocardiogram Data Output Devices (USI).  The test took place during an RGS (Russian Groundsite) overflight window (~5:24am EST) via VHF for data downlink from the VPG and Gamma-1M ECG for about 5-6 minutes.] CDR Kelly completed another weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery & Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.      [The current card (26-0045A) lists 123 CWCs (2,672.0 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (27 CWCs with 1106.8 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 649.5 L in 16 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 300.1 L in 7 bags for flushing only with microbial filter, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (85 CWCs with 1,538.7 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (6.3 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 7 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (20.2 L in 1 CWC from hose/pump flush & 1 empty bag).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] Other activities completed by Scott included –Supporting the BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) payload in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) by changing photoflash batteries and starting out on a new sample, #1,  [this involved homogenizing (mixing) BCAT-5 Sample 1 using a magnet from the TVIS treadmill wrapped in a lens cloth, then taking several photos of it, before kicking off the automated SSC (Station Support Computer) photography (no EarthKAM app).  After setting the Intervalometer in the camera (interval 00:10:00, number of intervals: 144), photos will now be taken automatically of Sample 1 for the next 24 hrs],Performing IFM (In-flight Maintenance) on ER7 (EXPRESS RACK 7) by adjusting rack umbilical strain-relief loops and installing a grounding strap on the ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System),Reconfiguring the WRS KOZ (Water Resource System Keep Out Zone) stowage area by printing out KOZ cue cards and move EDV container brackets,Replacing the WHC (Waste & Hygiene Compartment) toilet pre-treat tank (E-K) and the pre-treat tank hose with the fresh spares he had retrieved on 12/21 from the JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment),  [the E-K tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H2SO4 (sulfuric acid), CrO3 (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple color), and H2O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed with water in a dispenser (DKiV) and used for toilet flushing], andConducted a visual inspection of the T2/COLBERT treadmill’s corner hardware witness mark, after yesterday’s T2 monthly service by Cady Coleman. Cady configured the WHC for using the internal EDV-U container, and reported the flush counter. Working on the ASN-M satellite navigation system in the Service Module (SM), Alex Kaleri replaced the two NVM-1,2 navigation computer modules behind panel 228 with new units from stowage in the MRM1 Rassvet module.   [The ASN-M satellite navigation system, Russia’s equivalent of the U.S. GPS, will be required for the arrival of the European ATV-2 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 2) “Johannes Kepler” next year (2/26).] Continuing work on the BSPN Payload Server in SM, which had received new software recently to upgrade the BSPN’s HDD (Hard Disk Drive) backup partitions, Alex today performed another log file dump for review on the ground, as done on 12/22, then tagged up with ground specialists via S-Band. Oleg Skripochka ~4h set aside to perform the periodic Russian SPOPT Fire Detection & Suppression System maintenance, today in the FGB module, by carefully dismantling its IDZ-2 smoke detectors, cleaning their ionizing needles and then reinstalling the sensors.     [Part of the job is to inspect surrounding areas behind panels and to clean those surfaces with microbial growth wipes.] Dima Kondratyev spent ~2.5h on cargo transfers from Soyuz TMA-20/25S to the ISS. Paolo Nespoli retrieved & stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies, deployed by Scott Kelly 12/21 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.     [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.] The Italian flight engineer also performed another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer); deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.       [This was the 4th session with the newly replaced GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 7 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop (due to a software glitch, the software needs to be opened, closed, and then reopened in order to ensure good communication between GC/DMS and SSC-12).  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.] Working on the OGS (Oxygen Generator System), Cady mated a number of QD (Quick Disconnect) connectors inside the OGS in support of its scheduled activation later today.     [The OGS has been dormant for a couple months due to concerns about the water quality (pH value).  This afternoon’s planned activation was delayed due to a fault seen during the start-up phase.  A second attempt is planned later tonight.] Other activities conducted by FE-6 Coleman were –Consolidating the contents of three partially used blood collection kits (#1032, #1035, #1036) for the NUTRITION experiment into two blood collection kits #1037, #1038),   [the contents include such aids as biocide & iodine wipes, band aids, gauze, and surgical paper tape, but no blood samples],Locating CCF (Capillary Channel Flow) hardware launched on Flight 19A, and reporting discrepancies to POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center),   [CCF is a versatile experiment for studying a critical variety of inertial-capillary dominated flows key to spacecraft systems that cannot be studied on the ground.  CCF results will help innovate existing and inspire new applications in the portion of the aerospace community that is challenged by the containment, storage, and handling of large liquid inventories (fuels, cryogens, and water) aboard spacecraft.  The results will be immediately useful for the design, testing, and instrumentation for verification and validation of liquid management systems of current orbiting, design stage, and advanced spacecraft envisioned for future lunar and Mars missions.  They will also be used to improve life support system design, phase separation, and enhance current system reliability.]Attaching an MEU B (Measurement Experiment Units B) in the CBEF IU Micro-G (CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility / Incubator Unit for micro-G) in Kibo JPM for video checkouts performed by ground controllers at JAXA/SSIPC (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center/Tsukuba), andConducting regular service on the JAXA MI IPU (Marangoni Inside / Image Processing Unit) in Kibo by removing & replacing 5 HDs (Hard Disks) of the VRU (Video Recording Unit),- #1081, #1082, #1083, #1084, #1085   [the replaced VRU disks (#1076, #1077, #1078, #1079, #1080) were put in a Ziploc bag for return to SSIPC (Space Station Integration & Promotion Center/Tsukuba)]. Kelly, Coleman & Nespoli filled out their weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).      [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.] Alex completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.] Dima did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). Scott Kelly continued to provide crew handover information to newly-arrived crewmembers Paolo Nespoli and Cady Coleman, today for about 2 hrs. The three newcomers, FE-4, FE-5 & FE-6, also had their free time for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it. The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).     [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]  At ~2:55am EST, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow. At ~5:55am, Oleg Skripochka held a teleconference with EVA specialists at TsUP/Moscow. At ~9:15am, Paolo Nespoli supported a PAO TV downlink for a public ESA event at the Planetarium in Rome, Italy. At ~3:05pm, the three crewmembers had their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director for ISS at JSC/MCC-Houston. Reboost:   Yesterday’s ISS reboost was performed nominally, using Progress 39P DPA Rendezvous & Docking thrusters.  The reboost was Part 1 of the plan to optimally shape the ISS orbit for the HTV2 launch on 1/20/11, as well as to set up STS-133/ULF5 rendezvous altitude and provide Flight Day (FD3) rendezvous opportunities for February.  Another reboost is planned 1/13/11 to set up the final conditions.  TIG (Time of Ignition): 11:28am EST.  Burn Duration: 21 m 11 s.  Delta-V: 2.30 m/s (7.55 ft/s).  Mean altitude gain: 4.10 km (2.21 nmi).  CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded today were Piccaninny Impact Crater, West Australia (looking to the left of track for this approximately 7-km diameter impact structure.  The crater defines a roughly circular area on the landscape, but is fairly low contrast in relation to the surrounding area.  The crater is located within an upland area with deep narrow canyons to the south and northeast.  Overlapping mapping frames, taken left of track were recommended to obtain imagery of the crater), Johannesburg, South Africa (ISS had a near-nadir viewing pass over Johannesburg, the largest city in South Africa.  Johannesburg is one of the 40 largest metropolitan areas in the world; 180 mm lens imagery of the metro area provides useful context for higher resolution photographs), and Santiago, Chile (weather was predicted to be clear over the capital city of Chile.  Looking to the right of track for the metropolitan area; 180 mm lens imagery of the urban area provided useful context for higher resolution photographs). 