
Payloads:
Advanced Plant EXperiment-07 (APEX-07): Procedures for the APEX-07 Petri Plate insertions was reviewed.  APEX-07 examines how changes in gravity and other environmental factors associated with spaceflight affect plants at the level of gene expression.  Previous research shows that microgravity conditions during spaceflight affects which genes turn on or off, which proteins are present and in what amounts, and the modifications made to those proteins.  All of these processes are controlled by RNA, and this investigation analyzes the role of RNA regulation on gene expression during spaceflight in both roots and shoots of plants.
BioSentinel: The BioSentinel Mounting Plate and BioSentinel hardware was installed into the SABL-4 unit to begin 6 months of continuous operations.  BioSentinel ISS Control Experiment measures the effects of radiation and microgravity on Saccharomyces cerevisiae, or budding yeast. This model biological organism, used for many years in academic research, industry, and biotechnology, has biology very similar to humans and has flown in space before. Scientists plan to compare the effects of the space station environment on this yeast to effects from a deep space mission.
CYTOSKELETON: A crewmember inserted the Med Reservoir into the Biolab Glovebox for thawing over night at ambient temperature.  In vitro cultures of mammalian cells react specifically to microgravity, but there is no solid scientific evidence available about how and why.  The Involvement of Rho family GTPases in gravity perception and reaction (Cytoskeleton) investigation attempts to acquire new information about the events that are happening inside a mammalian cell, with the working hypothesis that the microgravity environment affects the function of RhoGTPases and the cellular signaling that they control.  RhoGTPases are signaling molecules residing under the Rho family of proteins, known to be involved as “molecular switches”, in the control of cell proliferation, apoptosis (programmed cell death), gene expression (flow of genetic information from gene to protein), and cytoskeletal organization.
Kubik: Kubik 5 and 6 hardware units were disconnected, deinstalled and stowed.  Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator or cooler with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic microgravity investigations such as those using seeds, cells, and small animals.
Plant RNA Regulation Redux in Multi Variable Platform (MVP Plant-01): Nutrients were provided into Plant-01 Petri Dishes and then dishes were installed into the twelve Experiment Module. The Experiment Modules were then installed into the Multi-use Variable-g Platform facility. MVP-Plant-01 profiles and monitors shoot and root development in plants in microgravity, in order to understand the molecular mechanisms and regulatory networks behind how plants sense and adapt to changes in their environment.  This understanding could contribute to the design of plants better able to withstand adverse environmental conditions, including long-duration spaceflight.
Plant Habitat-05: Plant Habitat-05 Growth Chamber was prepared, and Experimental Plates were installed.  Unlocking the Cotton Genome to Precision Genetics (Plant Habitat-05) cultivates several cotton genotypes that differ in their ability to regenerate into whole plants from undifferentiated masses of cells known as a calli.  Cotton is highly resistant to the process of plant regeneration, which makes it difficult to create reproductive and stable plants that have specific or enhanced traits such as drought resistance.  The investigation could provide a better understanding of this behavior and a pathway to avert this problem.
Rodent Research-18 (RR-18): Crewmembers performed RR-18 operations.  Astronauts returning from space can experience eye problems, along with headaches and blurred vision. Scientists suspect environmental conditions during spaceflight lead to oxidative stress that adversely affects the eye structure and function. Space Flight Environment Induces Remodeling of Vascular Network and Glia-vascular Communication in Mouse Retina (Rodent Research-18) investigates how spaceflight affects visual function, examining changes in the vascular system of the retina, tissue remodeling and cell-cell interactions in mice.
Systems: 
Oxygen Regeneration System (OGS) In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Activities: Today the crew performed IFM activities on the OGS. Crew sampled the OGS Recirculation Loop and then Removed and Replaced (R&R’ed) the Activated Carbon/Ion Exchange (ACTEX) filter cartridge inside the OGS Rack. The ACTEX filter provides continuous scrubbing of the OGS Recirculation Loop. The next activity was a repair of the damaged screen filter on the OGS Avionics Assembly (AAA) fan inlet on the NOD3A5 Rack. The OGS AAA provides cooling to the Node 3 system rack. After repair, the filter was reinstalled so that the face with the lowest airflow restriction faces forward in the rack. 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Activities: The crew completed EMU activities today beginning with an EVA Metal Oxide (METOX) Cap Swap to remove the old METOX caps on the METOX canisters with new METOX Simulator Caps so that there will be all new caps on the fleet of METOX canisters. Crew then initiated a charge on two Li-Ion Batteries using the EVA Battery Operations Terminal. The third activity was to repair the EVA Lower Torso Assembly (LTA) scissor pocket, which had torn stitching resulting in loose threads. The repaired pocket was photographed and the photos were downlinked.
Completed Task List Activities:

EDR2 Stowage Foam Box repack and photo audit (12/24)
EMER CMS Battery Changeout (12/24)
National Engineers Week Message (12/24)
SSC World Map Troubleshooting (12/24)
WHC KTO REPLACE (12/24)
Upper Stop Cable R&R (12/25)
Search for WOOV8 (12/25)
Record ESA PAO Message with Matthias Maurer (12/25, 12/26)
IFM Tool Stowage (12/26)

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

SPDM MISSE MSC Transfer
MSS Powerdown
Regenerative ECLSS OGS Deactivation
Regenerative ECLSS OGS Activation
MSS Powerup

