
Advanced Biological Research System (ABRS):  Cristoforetti removed the ABRS from EXPRESS Rack 2 and prepared it for stowage to return on SPX-5.  The ABRS provides two independently controlled environmental chambers capable of conducting a wide variety of biological investigations using plants, microorganisms, or small arthropods. The temperatures, lighting conditions, and atmospheric compositions within these chambers are adjusted for different experiments.
Bone Densitometer Validation:  Cristoforetti installed the Bone Densitometer locker in EXPRESS Rack 7.  The Bone Densitometer hardware will be used to perform checkouts and measurements of mice flown as part of Rodent Research operations.  One of the most common side effects of space travel is a loss of bone density, which happens because of microgravity. Researchers can study these effects by evaluating mice flown in space, and use the results to develop treatments for bone density loss in space as well as in patients on Earth. Bone Densitometer Hardware Validation (Bone Densitometer Validation) tests an X-ray device the size of a kitchen microwave oven, which measures bone density, muscle and fat in mice living on the International Space Station.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Samples:  Wilmore collected samples from the ITCS system in the Lab, Node 3, Node 3 and Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). The samples will be returned to ground for analysis.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPs) Audit: Virts conducted an audit of the PEPs equipment, including Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Portable Breathing Assembly (PBA) Oxygen (O2) bottles and Quick Don Mask Assemblies (QDMAs). He verified that the correct items are in the expected locations to ensure emergency provisions are available if needed.
IMV Flow Measurements:  Cristoforetti used the Velocicalc to collect measurements of the air flow exiting outlets and entering inlets throughout the USOS modules.  She also performed inspections in some areas, including screens.  This is done as part of the on-going system health monitoring.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


ABRS – equipment transfer
Periodic health assessment – subject
Crew Onboard Support Kit (КСПЭ) Equipment Audit / r/g 7549
VIRTUAL. Experiment Ops. Tagup w/specialists / r/g 7557
WRS – servicing of processing tank from EDV
URAGAN. Observation and imagery using VSS utilization hardware. / r/g 7564
EXPR2 – hardware install.
ITCS sampling on JEM.
NAPOR – mini RSA. Dual Pointing Platform (ДПН) Firmware upgrade. / r/g 7566
Bode Densitometer Install in ExPRESS Rack 7
VIRTUAL. Experiment Ops. / r/g 7561
COSMOCARD. Closeout Ops / r/g 7550
JRNL – log entry
RSK-1 Laptop Antivirus S/W Reconfig. / rg 7559
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops / r/g 7562
PBA and Fire Extinguisher Audit
On-Orbit hearing assessment using EARQ.
PROBOY. SW Upgrade / R/g 7565 + Proboj_Init.zip
ISS Crew Medical Officer CBT
JRNL – log entry
PROBOY. RSE1 Laptop Ops. / r/g 7568
PROBOY. Penetration simulator ops. / r/g 7569
IMV flow measurements
PHA audit, selecting PHA for priority use / r/g 7558
Installation of TBM-1H SW. Tagup w/specialists / r/g 7567
WRS – servicing of processing tank from EDV
Elektron-VM purge following shut-sown
Node 3 MTL sampling
Lab ITCS LTL sampling
Node 2 LTL sampling
WinSCAT Behavioral Assessment
Camcorder Configuration Test for Photo/TV
Elife-S2 cable routing
HMS – food questionnaire
Crew moding of ISERV camera to nominal mode
ENA inspection ops.

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.


Nominal commanding

