12-27-2011December 27, 2011
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/27/11  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  After wakeup, Anton Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution & Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  FE-5 Kuipers & FE-6 Pettit completed their first post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol. [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup & before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]  Due to a misunderstood uplink, Kuipers deferred his session with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) by two days (i.e., to tomorrow) and then continues for the regular 5 and 4 days.  Shkaplerov configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h5m session, his 2nd, which forbids moving or talking during data recording. The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure. The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA. [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions. By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic & physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]  CDR Burbank took the three newcomers, FE-4 Kononenko, FE-6 Pettit & FE-5 Kuipers, through a 2h15m ISS hardware familiarization training for Increment 30 for both USOS & RS (US Orbital & Russian Segments).       [Objectives of the emergency preparedness session are to familiarize the crew with the locations of equipment and the positions of valves used in emergencies, perform an inspection of each hatch for drag-throughs (using an uplinked overview diagram) and reporting the results to MCC-Houston, and review crew interactions in emergencies.  During training, the crewmembers were to consult with specialists at TsUP-Moscow, MCC-Houston, COL-CC/Oberpfaffenhofen and SSIPC/Tsukuba.]  Later, all six crewmembers teamed up for the standard one-hour Crew Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review (peredacha smeniy po bezopasnosti), to familiarize themselves with emergency roles & responsibilities as a 6-person crew, including escape routes. Later, the crew had a ~20 min tagup with ground specialists to discuss particulars. [Baseline emergency response actions are covered in the EMER-1 book. Emergencies may arise due to ammonia (NH3) leak, non-ammonia toxic spills, fire or rapid depressurization. In the event that a member of the 28S crew becomes incapacitated during such an emergency response, the whole crew will stop response procedures and return to their Soyuz spacecraft. The 29S crew may, after conferring with the ISS CDR, egress their Soyuz and finish the response in this case.]  Working on the MKSD Control & Data Acquisition Module of the GFI-17 Molniya-GAMMA (“Lightning-GAMMA”) experiment mounted externally, Shkaplerov repeated an earlier software upgrade from a USB flash drive. [GFI-17 “Molniya” FOTON-GAMMA investigates atmospheric gamma-ray bursts and optical radiation in conditions of thunderstorm activity.]  Later, Anton had another hour for more unloading & transferring of cargo from Progress 45P to the ISS for stowage, guided by an uplinked loading plan and logged in the IMS (Inventory Management System). [Of the approximately 1166 listed entries on 45P, about 404 are USOS items. Progress M-13M is to remain docked at the DC1 for about 3 months, and its unloading continues as a long-term activity.]   Ivanishin started another turn with the periodic inspection and photo-documentation of window panes in the RS, today focusing on the VL1 window in the MRM2 Poisk module and the VL2 window in the DC1 Docking Compartment. The observed defects were recorded in image and text files on the RSK1 laptop for subsequent downlink via U.S. OCA assets.[Objective of the inspection, which uses a digital still camera (Nikon D2X w/SB-28DX flash) and voice recorder, today was to assess the pane surfaces on the windows for any changes (new cavities, scratches, new or expanded old stains or discolorations affecting transparency properties) since the last inspection. The new assessment will be compared to the earlier observations. Defects are measured with the parallax method which uses eyeball-sighting with a ruler and a right isosceles triangle to determine the defects' size and position with respect to the window's internal surface (parallax being the apparent change in an object's position resulting from changing the observer's position).]  Kononenko transferred the new Matryoshka-R Lulin-5 detector kit of the Russian RBO-3-2 radiation payload suite from Soyuz 29S and handed it over to Ivanishin.    Anatoly then set up and activated the spherical Matryoshka “Phantom” hardware with the Lulin-5 detector in the MRM1 module to begin radiation monitoring, pointing in a specific direction (toward FGB and panel 205).       [The complexMatryoshka payload suite, provided by IBMP (Institute of Biomedical Problems) is designed for sophisticated radiation studies. Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls.]  Later, Oleg unpacked & deployed new 29S-delivered RODF (Russian Operations Data Files) documents. [These involved updates for the books/material on Medical Operations (MO Books 1 & 2), Technical Experiments (TE), Geophysics (GF), Medical Experiments (ME Book 2), Emergency Procedures (Emer-1), 29-30/30-31 Handover Recommendations (RPS) and change log sheets].  Dan Burbank & Don Pettit had ~30 min set aside for a joint review of activities associated with the upcoming EPIC (Enhanced Input Output Control) transition and X2R10 upgrade of MDM (Multiplexer/Demultiplexer) computers, followed by a 20-min. teleconference with ground specialists via phone.       [Operationally this transition is more of a series of IFMs (Inflight Maintenances) than a traditional software transition.  The EPIC Unit (EIOCU, also known as the processor card) in the C&C MDMs (3 of them) and GNC MDMs (2 of them) will be replaced with the EPIC version of the processor card.   Six cards launched on Progress 43P were loaded with CCS R10 & GNC R9 software; four cards delivered on 29S were loaded with CCSR10 and PEPR10.  The new software contains the same functionality as the previous versions; it is just running on a faster, more capable processor card.]  Anton completed the task of shooting situational video of a twisted air duct in the MRM2 module, running from SM PkhO (Transfer Compartment) through the MRM2 to Soyuz TMA-22/28S and its BVN heater fan.      [Objective: to assess the attachments of the air duct and the options to untwist it.]  Later, FE-1 performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control & Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO & KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV & EDV on RP flow regulator.]  Shkaplerov also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).  The 29S crewmembers Kononenko, Pettit & Kuipers had about an hour of free time for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization & acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.  Burbank and Kuipers joined for an hour of Increment 30 to 31 crew handover activity.  André also completed his daily task of filling out his SHD (Space Headache) questionnaire which he started after Soyuz launch and continues on ISS (on an SSC/Station Support Computer) for his first week in space.  Both Dan & Don had a time slot reserved for making entries in their electronic Journal on the personal SSC (Station Support Computer). [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]   Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations & Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]  Before sleeptime, FE-1 will start battery charging for the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware for another run tomorrow.    [The FSS (Fotospektralnaya sistema) system consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module. FSS includes the ME Electronics Module &MRI Image Recording Module.]  FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5 & FE-6 had their  regular PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) via S- & Ku-band audio/video, Oleg at ~8:55am, Anton at ~10:55am, Anatoly at ~12:10pm, André at ~12:30pm, Don at ~1:25pm EST.  For Oleg, André & Don, it was their currently daily post-arrival PMC.  At ~3:40am, the three Russian Flight Engineers teamed up to support a Russian PAO TV event, the traditional New Year’s Eve gathering of Roskosmos management, Vologda region leaders and representatives, and Russia’s Father Frost from Velikiy Ustug of the Vologda region today at TsUP-Moscow.      [Participants scheduled to attend:  Aleksey Borisovich Krasnov (Manned Space Program), Russia’s Father Frost, Gennady Gennadievich Raikunov (General Director, TsNIIMASh), Victor Mikhailovich Ivanov (Deputy General Director, Head of TsUP, TsNIIMASh), Nickolay Leonidovich Vinogradov (Vice-Governor, Vologda Region), Meshalin Alexander Sergeyevich (Director of the Vologda Region Foundation In Support Of Projects & Programs), Nadezhda Aleksandrovna Sadokova (Head of A.F. Mozhaiski House Museum, a branch of Vologda State Museum of History & Architecture), Natalia Valerievna Andreyeva (Principal of High School #35, Vologda Region), High school children from Vologda, Vologda Region, Moscow and Moscow Region high schools, Cosmonaut Fyodor Nikolaevich Yurchikhin with his daughter Elena, and journalists from Moscow, Moscow Region, Vologda and Vologda Region mass media.]  The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation & stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4).  These were the first workouts for Don & André.  After his T2 session, Pettit closed down the T2 software on its laptop for data transfer, then turned off the T2 display.  The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for Shkaplerov, Ivanishin & Kononenko today called for continued preparation & downlinking of more reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.  