
Payloads:
All Solid-State Lithium-ion Battery (AS LiB) and Small PL Multi-purpose Controller-2 (MCU-2): The AS LiB and MCU-2 were installed on the appropriate components on the Exposed Facility Unit-2 (EFU-2) in preparation for return to the external environment. AS LiB is designed to have a broad operating temperature range from -40 ℃ to 120 ℃ and adopts flame-retardant materials that carry only a minimal risk of ignition, smoking, and rupture. These features seek to help reduce the size and weight as well as power usage of equipment to be used under harsh space environment conditions, such as exposure to cosmic vacuum and radiation. 
Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (Cardiobreath): After donning the BioMonitor sensor garment and setting up the appropriate hardware, the crew performed a Cardiobreath experiment session. Astronauts experience changes in their cardiovascular, respiratory, and musculoskeletal systems during spaceflight, which can affect their capacity to exercise and to maintain blood pressure when standing after return to Earth. Cardiobreath studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight. Results could provide a better understanding of the mechanisms of these adaptations on long-duration missions. In addition, support development of methods for assessing cardiovascular and respiratory effects on blood pressure before and after spaceflight.
Human Research Facility (HRF) Veggie: Profile of Mood States (POMS) questionnaires were completed by the crew. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System investigation is a phased research project that includes Veg-04A, Veg-04B, Veg-05, HRF Veg, and HRF Veggie POMS questionnaires. This work addresses the need for a system to produce healthy, fresh food on future long-duration exploration missions to supplement the standard pre-packaged astronaut diet. HRF Veg uses both psychological surveys and crew evaluations of the flavor and appeal of plants grown for other investigations on the ISS. This focuses on the overall behavioral health benefits to crew members of having various plants and fresh food in space.
Intelligent Space System Interface Flight Qualification Experiment (iSSIFQE, aka Smart One): The Smart One experiment hardware was removed from EFU-2 and prepared for return to the ground. iSSIFQE demonstrates the ability of a standardized robotic connector to transfer significant amounts of power, data, and thermal energy in space over an extended period of time. The iSSI units serve as a connector between two entities, both fixed-to-mobile and mobile-to-mobile, including robotic arms, satellites, and assets on the surface of the Moon. Standardization lowers the cost and increases the reusability and lifetime of space systems.
Pore Formation and Mobility Investigation-Asymmetric Sawtooth and Cavity-Enhanced Nucleation-Driven Transport (PFMI-ASCENT): The crew exchanged the science ampoules for the ongoing PFMI-ASCENT experiment. PFMI-ASCENT demonstrates a passive cooling system for electronic devices in microgravity using a microstructured surface. When fluids boil over flat heated surfaces in microgravity, vapor bubbles grow larger in size, causing poor heat transfer that can lead to damage of devices. Adding microscopic rachets on the surface may passively enable mobility of vapor bubbles and prevent this damage.
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge: The crew recharged the EMU feedwater tanks to satisfy maintenance requirements for on-orbit stowage, using iodinated water from a Contingency Water Container – Iodinated (CWC-I). After the recharge, a small quantity of water was dumped from the feedwater tanks to provide ullage for condensate collection during the next EMU prebreathe. The EMU is the suit that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for a crewmember during an Extravehicular Activity (EVA).
Post EVA Tasks: The crew began with deconfiguration of the Airlock (A/L) and prepared EMUs for long term stowage. Following that activity, the crew stowed the Modular Mini WorkStations (MWSs), tethers, and tools that were used for the 3A/4A ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Install EVAs. Finally, the crew participated in an EVA debrief conference with ground teams to discuss the successful completion of US EVA #83 and any questions pertaining to issues that arose during the EVA.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

HD EMU Camera Operations File Transfers
EMU Data Recorder Operations
EVA Debrief Conference
EMU Water Recharge
JEMAL Depressurization and Vent
PPS SSU Shunt Test

