
Payloads
Cardinal Heart: The crew performed a periodic cell culture media exchange in the various cell culture chambers. Cardinal Heart studies the effects of change in gravitational force on cardiovascular cells at the cellular and tissue level using engineered heart tissues (EHTs). Microgravity significantly affects heart tissues that perform work and exert an opposite force to gravity and is known to cause molecular and structural abnormalities in cells and tissues that can lead to disease. The investigation could provide new understanding of similar heart issues on Earth and help identify new treatments.
The ISS Experience: The crew recorded a session with the Russian Cosmonauts, and a conclusion recording and then performed the setup for data download. The ISS Experience is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station. Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA): The crew partially completed the setup of the SUBSA hardware. The remaining steps will be scheduled later this week. The objective of the SUBSA investigation is to advance understanding of the processes involved in semiconductor crystal growth. It offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C. Samples are contained in transparent quartz or ceramic ampoules with high definition video imaging available in real-time along with remote commanding of thermal control parameters.
Burning Rate Emulator (BRE): The crew completed the activities needed to replace the current 40% O2 / 60% N2 manifold bottle with a full bottle of the same composition. The Burning Rate Emulator (BRE) investigation is conducted in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) on the International Space Station (ISS), as part of the Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) project. In this fire safety study, the flammability of solid and liquid materials is simulated by burning gaseous fuels under key conditions corresponding to the solid and liquid materials. This technique has been demonstrated for a wide variety of materials in normal-gravity and could provide an efficient way to screen and select fire-resistant materials for use in spacecraft, if the technique is similarly effective in microgravity.
Systems
Microbial Air/Surface Sampling Analysis: Following last week’s microbial air and surface sampling, today the crew visually analyzed the media slides and petri dishes following incubation and prepared them for return for ground analysis.
Completed Task List Activities:

MELFI failed EU removal for packing

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Payloads ops support
Thermal Amine troubleshooting

