
Fluid Shifts – Baseline Imaging: The first of three 49Soyuz subjects performed their Baseline Imaging measurements with assistance from both onboard operators and ground remote guiders.  Ultrasound imaging was taken of arterial and venous measures of the head and neck, cardiac, ophthalmic and portal vein, and tissue thickness of lower and upper body. Additional measurements using the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), ESA’s Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Device, and Intraocular Pressure (IOP) using the tonometer were taken as well. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Optics Bench Configuration, Part 2: The crew continued the preparation for the Cool Flames Investigation (CFI) experiment by completing the reconfiguration and installation of the Optics Bench on the CIR.  The Hi Bit-depth Multi-Spectral (HiBMS) Imaging packages on Universal Mounting Locations 7 and 8 (ULM7 & ULM8). Ground teams are still evaluating how to remove the stuck FLame EXtinguishment (FLEX)-2 Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) trapped within the Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) of the CIR.  Once removed the MDCA will be reconfigured for CFI. CFI provides new insight into the phenomenon where some types of fuels initially burn very hot, then appear to go out — but they continue burning at a much lower temperature, with no visible flames (cool flames). Understanding cool flame combustion helps scientists develop new engines and fuels that are more efficient and less harmful to the environment.
ISS Safety Video Survey:  The crew recorded video of the interior volume of the ISS to allow ground teams to assess the current vehicle configuration and identify any safety concern. This survey is performed approximately every 6 months to identify ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, verify emergency egress paths, and confirm access to fire ports and safety equipment.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Conductivity Test: Today, the crew tested the conductivity of water samples obtained earlier this week from EMU 3008.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  The crew continued with preparations for the Battery Upgrade EVA. Today, the crew utilized Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software to review the translation paths during the upcoming EVAs, followed by a conference with ground specialists to answer any questions. Ground teams continue to monitor the discharge of the Channel 3A batteries.  The first of the two EVAs to replace the Channel 1A/3A batteries is scheduled Friday, January 9th. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Last night ground specialist powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body and Arm1 in order to grasp Robot Micro Conical Tool 2 (RMCT2) in the SPDM Tool Holder Assembly (THA).  SPDM Arm1 was then powered down and powered up back again and the Robotics Ground Controllers confirmed that the SPDM Orbital Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism 1 (OTCM1) Payload Status was still Secure.  This verified that the SPDM software update uplinked overnight corrected the anomaly where after power up of a loaded OTCM it no longer had a Payload Status of Secure.  RMCT2 was then released and SPDM Arm1 and the SPDM Body were then reconfigured for the start of the Battery replacement operations scheduled to start on GMT 366.  MSS performance today was nominal. 
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Combustion Integrated Rack Doors Open
Fluid Shifts Urine Collection Stow
Hardware Setup and Connection for TV Greetings in MPEG2 via Ku-band.
Combustion Integrated Rack Optics Bench Configuration 2
Crew Prep for PAO
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound 2 HRF Rack 1 Power On
Fluid Shifts OCT Baseline Setup
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event using MPEG
Fine Motor Skills Experiment Test – Subject
Fluid Shifts CDL Holter Arterial BP Hardware Don – Subject
Deactivation of КСПЭ Hardware and Closing Applications on the Central Post SSC after the TV Session
Hardware Prep for Spacesuit #5 Functionality Check.
Fluid Shifts Ultrasound Baseline Scan – Subject
Spacesuit #5 Activation.
PELIKAN. FSS Batteries Charge (start)
Degassing of Spacesuit #5 Water System, [КВО] LCG and БСС interface unit in ПхО.
Partial Pressure СО check on the Central Post with CSA-CP 
СОЖ Maintenance
Leak Check of Spacesuit #5 Secondary Bladder.
Fluid Shifts CCFP Baseline Test – Subject
Leak Check of Spacesuit #5, Onboard Interface Unit (БСС), and Spacesuit Valves.
Combustion Integrated Rack Optics Bench Translation In
PELIKAN. Observation and Photography using FSS Hardware
Fluid Shifts OCT Baseline Exam – Subject
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (RGN) WSTA Fill
Combustion Integrated Rack Optics Bench Configuration 3
Fluid Shifts DPOAE Baseline Test – Subject
Fluid Shifts OCT Baseline Stow
Spacesuit #5 Prep for telemetry checks.
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Setup
Combustion Integrated Rack Rack Doors Close
Cleaning of the Screen of Fan Unit with Heater (БВН) in Soyuz 732
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Exam – Operator
ИП-1 Sensors Deployment Monitoring
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Exam – Subject
Fluid Shifts CDL Holter Arterial BP Hardware Doff Alternate – Subject
Fluid Shifts Tonometry Baseline Stow
Portable Onboard Computers (POC) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software Review
COSMOCARD. Closeout Operations
Comm Setup and Transit-B Activation
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment Lab Video Setup
ESA Weekly crew conference
Photo and Video of Life on the ISS
Checking the Systems of Spacesuit #5, БСС, and Comm Assets
Restoration of Nominal Comm Config
Switching Spacesuit #5 and БСС to Stow Mode.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Conductivity Test
Hardware Restow after Spacesuit #5 Check
Soyuz 732 Samsung Tablet Charging (if the charge is less than 80%)
IMS Delta File Prep
ISS SAFETY VIDEO
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Conference
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment Lab Video Return
Flight Director/ISS CREW CONFERENCE
Stow Syringes used in H2O Conductivity Test
Finish Soyuz 732 Samsung Tablet Charging

Completed Task List Items

Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) Checkout
EVA Service and Cooling Umbilical Route
JEMRMS Bus Monitor cable Setup.

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

N2 Distribution System Leak Check 

