
Payloads:
NanoRacks Module-89 (Moon Gallery): Module-89 was removed from NanoRacks MainFrame A and stowed. NanoRacks Module-89 houses the Moon Gallery experiment that evaluates the performance of a single-board computer platform with a high-quality camera in the space station’s radiation environment. Photos and videos taken with the camera become part of an art installation known as the Moon Gallery. The camera could be used in future space platforms and science hardware.
NanoRacks Module-9: Designated Mixture Tubes were activated and deactivated per Operations 3 protocol. NanoRacks Module-9 is a module containing a complement of Mixture Tubes. These Mixture Tubes each contain a separate experiment that can be activated and deactivated while in zero-G. Tubes are a low-cost, high-return science opportunity for students to send experiments to ISS and encompass a wide range of science/disciplines. Mixture Tubes are popular with middle and high school science programs and have been used by private company research, technical schools, and individual research.
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer Mission-24 (NRCSD-24): NRCSD-24 deployers were installed on the JEMAL Slide Table (ST). NRCSD-24 Is an external deployer that is installed in the JEM airlock and robotically placed in the deploy configuration using the JEMRMS. NRCSD-24 will be deploying eight different satellites: DanteSat which is a deorbiting drag sail study; TJREVERB, developed by Thomas Jefferson High school will measure the strength of iridium signals; MARIO is a Macro-Fiber Composite Actuator experiment; NUTSat uses an ADS-B receiver to demonstrate and enhance commercial aviation safety technology; LORIS will provide detailed views of the Nova Scotia peninsula and its surrounding shorelines; ORCASat will demonstrate technology to calibrate optical telescopes; SPORT will study the effects of space weather in the upper atmosphere and its effects on communication; PetitSat will study local plasma density enhancements and buoyancy waves in the 380-420 km altitude.
OVOSPACE: OVOSPACE was removed from NanoRacks MainFrame A and stowed. How microgravity influences ovarian cell (Theca and Granulosa) maturation and development is an open question, and a scarcely investigated issue. The Modulation of Granulosa and Theca Cells Activity in Microgravity: Consequences for Human Health and Reproduction (OVOSPACE) investigation studies how the microgravity environment can impair ovary function and the physiological development of living beings. Given the objectives of human colonization of the Moon, this task assumes a critical importance in planning future programs of human settlement in space.
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub: The crew performed ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) of EMUs 3004 and 3013 as well as Airlock (A/L) cooling water loops. Conductivity readings and a water sample were taken from the cooling loop following the 70-minute scrub. Finally, crew terminated, deconfigured, and checked out the EMUs. EMU loop scrubs are required preventative maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU cooling loop. The EMU is and independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit.
Toilet Conductivity Monitor Troubleshooting: The crew ran various troubleshooting activities to recover the Toilet Conductivity Monitor with a goal to reach a conductivity reading of at least 46.8 mS/cm as seen on Crew Conductivity Monitor (CCM). Crew first powered on the toilet, then plugged in urine hose, performed concussive tapping, and finally shook the hardware while dosing. In order to address a capability gap for robust, low consumables, low profile human metabolic waste management system for future space exploration vehicles, NASA authorized the development of the Universal Waste Management System (UWMS), now known simply as ‘Toilet.’ The toilet troubleshooting was unsuccessful in the end. Teams did not see conductivity sensor readings above the threshold and per the plan; the crew put the toilet into dormancy mode.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

EMU Data Recorder Operations
HD EMU Camera Operations File Transfers
EVA EMU Cooling Loop Scrub Operations
Regenerative ECLSS OGA Cell Stack Scan

