
Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight Sarcolab-3: Today’s second operational day for the Sarcolab-3 experiment began with converting the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) from the ankle measurement configuration to the knee measurement configuration. The subject donned Percutaneus Electrical Muscle Stimulator (PEMS) and Electromyography (EMG) electrodes to stimulate and measure calf muscle and tendon response at the back of the knee (calf muscle origin). During the knee joint evaluation, the subject sat on the MARES dynamometer with the chair and pantograph set to obtain knee flexion and extension from 90 degree knee angle to full extension with the knee torque adapter securely fixed to the shin. The inflight data will be compared to pre and post flight measurements to measure the impact of a hypothesized microgravity induced muscle loss. Sarcolab investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus, or calf muscle, where it joins the Achilles tendon which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PBRE) Module Exchange: The crew exchanged PBRE modules, removing Test Module/Wetting and installing the Test Module/Non-Wetting into the PBRE located in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Work Volume (WV).  The activity, originally scheduled for two days was successfully completed in one day. The PBRE investigation studies the behavior of gases and liquids when they flow simultaneously through a column filled with fixed porous media. The porous media or “packing” can be made of different shapes and materials and are used widely in chemical engineering as a means to enhance the contact between two immiscible fluid phases (e.g., liquid-gas, water-oil, etc.). Packed columns can serve as reactors, scrubbers, strippers, etc. in systems where efficient interphase contact is desired, both on Earth and in space. 
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): During yesterday’s cartridge exchange, a bolt floated away. It was subsequently found and the exchange activities were rescheduled for today. The crew successfully removed the calibration cartridge and installed the test cartridge in the ELF. The Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency’s (JAXA) ELF is located in Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR)-2. It is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Inter Module Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning: The crew cleaned the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) starboard forward fan and IMV grille. The fan and grille were temporarily removed during the cleaning process. 
Medical Emergency On-Board Training (OBT): The 49S crew reviewed medical emergency procedures and rescuer roles during a medical event requiring Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) as follows:

Review emergency medical hardware configuration and determine desired deployed locations.
Determine individual preference for performing chest compressions in microgravity.
Discuss crew communication and coordination of care during an emergency medical event.

Today’s Planned Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

Crew Evaluation of New Food Items
Calf Volume Measurement
Personal CO2 Monitor iPad Application Restart
HMS PHS Evaluation Setup
HMS PHS – Subject
HMS PHS – CMO
XF305 Camcorder Setup
MSPR2 ELF Retrieve
SARCOLAB. MARES knee configuration installation
MSPR2 ELF Retrieve Sub
JEM Airlock Press
Combustion Integrated Rack Hardware Return
Cleaning of TV System LIV voltage converter vent grille
MARES Knee Shaving Preparation
Study of veins in lower extremities
MRM2 comm config to support the P/L Ops
JEM Airlock Leak Check
Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Run
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Ground Connection
EMG electrodes installation and Sarcolab knee protocol execution
SARCOLAB. subject electrodes equipment assistance
Electrostatic Levitation Photodetector(PD) Amplifier setting
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
Inspection of SM space behind panels for contamination
Study of veins in lower extremities
MSPR2 ELF Install
MSPR2 ELF Install Sub
KULONOVSKYI KRISTALL. Copying data to removable hard drive
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
SARCOLAB. MARES Laptop and Hardware Powerdown
TIMER.  Battery Charge
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Stow Hardware
Personal CO2 Monitor Power Cycle
ISS HAM Service Module Pass
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment Test Module Exchange
Greetings Video Footage
ESA ACTIVE DOSIMETER MOBILE UNIT SWAP
CheCS OBT
ТМ168-04 Sensor Inspection and Photography
Nikon D3 Camera Digital Image Sensor Cleaning
TIMER. Setup and Initiate Experiment Ops Video
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment Test Module Exchange
Perform SSC Server-1 Primary Hard Drive Reseat
VIZIR. Experiment Ops
JEM Inter Module Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning
Tightening QD Screw Clamps on MRM2-Soyuz 732 Docking Mechanism Interface
TIMER. Experiment Ops Video Termination and Cleanup
MOTOCARD. Experiment Ops
MOTOCARD. Operator Assistance with the Experiment
IMS Update
Early Mission Debrief Conference
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) Charge Initiate
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – ESA Nutritional Assessment
Personal CO2 Monitor Power Cycle

Completed Task List Items

EHS Dosimeter stow
SLM data transfer
TOCA WRS analysis
VEG03 pillow water

Ground Activities
All activities were completed unless otherwise noted.

MSS powerdown

