
ISS SERVIR (“to serve” in Spanish) Environmental Research and Visualization System (ISERV):  Wilmore and Cristoforetti viewed an ISERV Payload On-Board Training video and procedures to become familiar with removal techniques, then removed the ISERV telescope from the Window Observation Research Facility (WORF) payload volume.  ISERV is an automated system designed to acquire images of the Earth’s surface from the ISS. It is primarily a means to gain experience and expertise in automated data acquisition from the ISS, although it is expected to provide useful images for use in disaster monitoring and assessment, and environmental decision making.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Water Collection and Analysis:  Virts sampled water from the PWD Ambient for micro in-flight processing, TOCA analysis, Colormetric Water Quality Monitoring Kit (CWQMK) analysis, and Post-Flight archive sampling.  PWD water processing using Microbial Capture Devices (MCD) and coliform detection bag was performed following the water collection.
Bone Densitomer:  Cristoforetti loaded Bone Densitometer laptop application software onto the EXPRESS Laptop Computer (ELC). Many of the conditions of spaceflight that adversely affect astronauts, such as the loss of bone density, can be studied effectively using mice flown in space. Approximately the size of a consumer microwave oven, the Bone Densitometer (BD) uses X-rays to measure the bone mineral density (and the lean and fat tissue) of mice living aboard the ISS. As a result, researchers hope to develop medical technology that will combat bone density loss in space and on Earth, helping millions of senior citizens who suffer from osteoporosis.
Wireless-Sensor Network (WiSe-Net):  Cristoforetti configured the WiSe-Net Base Station and installed WISENET motes throughout the interior of the Columbus module and activated the system.  The WiSe-Net experiment places low-power sensor-nodes in ESA’s Columbus and forms a wireless network to monitor environmental factors such as temperature, pressure, and humidity.  The goal of Wise-Net is to test this wireless sensor network in a space environment and in the metallic structure of the European Columbus module. Another objective is to see if small amounts of energy could be ‘harvested’ from inside the ISS where light, airflows, or differences in temperature could be used to return power for experiments.
Ocular Health:  Cristoforetti assisted Virts in conducting his Flight Day 30 (FD 30) cardiac echo scan as part of the Ocular Health data collection. The crew set up equipment, configured the Ultrasound 2 and performed an echocardiogram with guidance from the Ocular Health ground team.  The Ocular Health protocol is a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment / intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
ISS Safety Video Survey:  Cristoforetti obtained video of the interior volume of the ISS which allows ground teams to assess the current vehicle configuration and identify areas of concern. This survey is performed approximately every 6 months to identify ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, emergency egress paths, access to fire ports and safety equipment.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities are completed unless otherwise noted.


ABOUT GAGARIN FROM SPACE. Experiment
ISERV – Payload OBT
ISERV – Procedure review
TV New Year Greetings to the ISS crew from the Head of Roscosmos
WRS Sample Collection
Personal Hygiene Articles (СЛГ) Audit, selecting СЛГ for priority use
Network and Computer Hardware Audit (recess under ИнПу)
USND2 – Hardware Activation
TOCA Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis
Ultrasound Scanning Ops
TV PAO with RSC Energia, IMBP, GCTC Management New Year Greetings
OTKLIK. Hardware Check
Network And Computer Hardware Audit (recess under ИнПу)
ISS Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Computer Based Training (CBT)
Personal Hygiene Articles (СЛГ) Audit, selecting СЛГ for priority use
Express Rack (ER) – Loading software Express Rack Laptop Computer
Cardiac Scan – Subject
ISERV – Post-OBT Payload Removal
OH – Ocular Health Nominal Operations Assistance
ISERV – Post-OBT Hardware Removal Assistance
WRM Condensate Pumping Start
TOCA Data Recording
Water processing using MCD
WRM Condensate Pumping Terminate
TEPC Removal
T2 – Quarterly Inspection
WISENET – Hardware setup
Video Survey of the ISS
JRNL – Journal Entry
IMS Delta File Prep
ISS Crew Medical Officer (CMO) Computer Based Training (CBT)

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities are completed unless otherwise noted.


Nominal commanding
High Beta Angle Configuration and Battery Overcharge Protection

