
Payloads:
Cytoskeleton: Today, the crew installed Cytoskeleton Experiment Containers into the Biolab Incubator.  In vitro cultures of mammalian cells react specifically to microgravity, but there is no solid scientific evidence available about how and why. The Involvement of Rho family GTPases in gravity perception and reaction (Cytoskeleton) investigation attempts to acquire new information about the events that are happening inside a mammalian cell, with the working hypothesis that the microgravity environment affects the function of RhoGTPases and the cellular signaling that they control. RhoGTPases are signaling molecules residing under the Rho family of proteins, known to be involved as “molecular switches”, in the control of cell proliferation, apoptosis (programmed cell death), gene expression (flow of genetic information from gene to protein), and cytoskeletal organization.
ESA-EPO (Education Payload Operations):  A crewmember recorded a video demonstration of the damping mechanism of granular materials by oscillating different dampers on a spring and by inducing collisions with a surface. Dzhanibekov Demonstrations were also recorded to show the Dzhanibekov effect with several differently shaped items. The activities related to ESA-EPO Generic Videos are intended to encourage and strengthen the teaching of science curriculum and stimulate the curiosity of students to motivate them towards further study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects. 
Materials ISS Experiment Flight Facility-14 (MISSE-14): Four MSCs (Material Sample Carriers) were removed from the MTT 2 (MISSE Transfer Tray) and were prepped for return. MISSE-14 continues a series of tests by NASA Glenn Research Center on how the harsh environment of space affects the performance and durability of various materials. Each mission tests new materials and material configurations, and similar materials fly on multiple MISSE missions. MISSE-14 exposes de-orbit, phase change and radiation shielding materials as well as 11 types of crop seeds to the space environment.
NanoRacks Platforms: Imagery was taken of Platform-2 Module-48. The NanoRacks Platforms is a multipurpose research facility on board ISS. The NanoRacks Platforms supports NanoRacks Modules in the CubeSat form factor by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity. 
T2 Treadmill Augmented Reality (T2AR) Procedures:  Today, an inspection of the T2 Treadmill was performed and the Questionnaire was completed. T2AR conducts tests using augmented reality to help crew members perform inspection and maintenance on the Combined Operational Load Bearing External Resistance Treadmill (COLBERT). The ability to perform such tasks without assistance from Mission Control is vital for future space exploration such as a mission to Mars, where significant time delays occur in communications between space and ground. Using augmented reality to guide astronauts through complex spacecraft maintenance and repair activities also reduces the time needed for training and task performance.
Systems: 
Node 3 to Cupola Velocicalc Measurements: Today, Crew completed measurements of IMV flow into Cupola. This check was completed as a close out step for the recently completed NOD3F3 Filter R&R, to ensure that IMV flow had returned to a nominal state post R&R.
Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) Transfer Station Initiation, Drain, and Swap: Today, Crew completed a drain and swap of the CWC-I system. First, the crew setup the CWC-I Transfer Station to initialize transfer to the Wastewater Bus. Next, Crew swapped the drained CWC-I bag for a full CWC-I bag in preparation for transfer. Finally, Crew terminated fluid transfer, and returned fluid and power connections to their nominal state.
BEAM Ingress and Microbial Sampling: Today, Crew ingressed into the BEAM to complete a hardware retrieval. This ingress required that the ARED platform be partially folded up. During this ingress ARED was no-go for use. While in the BEAM, crew completed the hardware retrieval as well as performed several different microbial sampling surveys. One survey tested the air for microbes, while the other tested surfaces in the BEAM using a Surface Sample Kit (SSK). After completing the above tasks, Crew egressed the BEAM and unfolded the ARED, so that is was GO for use.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 3 Deck Starboard Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning: Today, Crew completed cleaning of the Node 3 Deck Starboard IMV fan. The goal was to remove FOD from IMV Fan inlet flow straighteners, inlet silencer, and outlet silencer as well as clean the Deck IMV Starboard Fan inlet flow straighteners and Inlet Silencer.
Lab Fwd ATU and Headset Troubleshooting: On Thursday, January 30th, Crew reported that they had been having issues adjusting volume on the Lab Forward ATU and Headset. Two different crew members reported having this issue. Today, Crew coordinated with the ground team to troubleshoot the system to determine the underlying cause of the issue. At the time of the test, no volume issues were observed.
Dragon Cargo Transfer Operations: Today, Crew continued transfer of cargo from the recently docked SpX-24. These dragon cargo operations will continue for several weeks leading up to the currently planned departure date of SpX-24 on Friday, January 21st.
Completed Task List Activities:

None

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Initiating CWC-I Transfer to Waste Water Bus for Drains 1-4
JEM Airlock and ACDU-RC Activation
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey Support

