
Haptics-1:  Wilmore set up Haptics-1 equipment on rack front seat tracks in the Columbus Module, performed five Haptics-1 experiment protocols and transferred data to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for downlink.  The objective of the Haptics-1 experiment is to execute an in-orbit engineering parameter calibration and identification for one joint of an exoskeleton haptic device and record a set of performance measurements with crew operating force reflective controllers in micro-gravity. A single degree of freedom motor-unit with a handle-bar and a control computer are used to perform a set of identification experiments by astronaut crew.
Ocular Health:  Wilmore set up the fundoscope and acting as Crew Medical Officer (CMO), performed Flight Day 30 (FD30) measurements on Virts.  Cristoforetti set up the Ocular Coherence Tomography (OCT) hardware and software to support Virts’ FD 30 eye exam.  The Ocular Health protocol is a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment / intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Education Payload Operation (EPO):  Cristoforetti performed two EPO scripts: “Mission X 2015 Italian Edition” and “Bioregenerative closed systems”.  These educational activities were video recorded for future playback.  
Astro Palate:  Virts retrieved a special Astro Palate prepackaged meal, consumed it as his midday meal and completed the Mood and Food Consumption/Satisfaction Questionnaires.  Factors Contributing to Food Acceptability and Consumption, Mood and Stress on Long-Term Space Missions (Astro Palate) studies the relationship among emotions, mood, stress and eating during spaceflight. The study explores ways to minimize stressful aspects of eating so that individuals consume more food and are more satisfied. The experiment also examines ways to use eating to reduce stress or negative moods that crewmembers may normally experience in flight.
Today’s Planned Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.


ECLSS Recycle Tank Remove and Replace
PPS1 – Deactivation
On MCC GO EDV Refill from ATV5 WDS tank 
ВКС Laptops Antivirus Software Checkout and Report to MCC
MRM2 comm config to support voice comm for the experiment
KULONOVSKIY KRISTALL. Experiment Ops
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Photo of OCT Chin Rest Adjustment Grip
OCT Ops
Kulonovskiy Kristall Experiment Photography
Cleaning LIV TVS Voltage Converter Ventilation Grille
HAP1 – Experiment Ops
OCT Equipment Stowage
WRS – Recycle Tank Fill from EDV
MRM2 Comm Reconfig for Nominal Ops
Replacement of СРВ-К2М Sediment Trap Insert
СКПФ1, СКПФ2 Dust Filter Replacement and MRM1 Gas-Liquid Heat Exchanger (ГЖТ) Cleaning 
PROBOY. Penetration Simulator Ops
IMS Delta File Prep
HMS Defibrillator Inspection
Astro Palate (AP) – Pre-operations
Test activation of Vozdukh Atmosphere Purification System Emergency Vacuum Valves
BAR. Experiment Ops
Astro Palate (AP) – Launching the Application
Verification of ИП-1 Flow Sensor Position
ESA Nutritional Assessment (ENA)
Remove depress hose for UPA operations
Initiate EMU LLB Battery Autocycle
URAGAN. Observation and Photography using VSS
PAO Event
Draining Urine from Recycle Tank to ATV WDS
MISSION-BIOSYS – Equipment Gathering
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Bottle Replacement [Deferred]
Fundoscope – Exam
EPO – Experiment ops and video.
MISSION-BIOSYS – Equipment Stowage
Scheduled Maintenance of Compound Specific Analyzer- Combustion Products (CSA-CP)

Completed Task List Items

None

Ground Activities
All activities have been completed unless otherwise noted.


Nominal commanding
High Beta Angle configuration and battery over charging protection

