
Payloads
Cryo Chiller: The crew installed sample cartridge into the Cryo Chiller facility. Cryo Chiller is a single Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) locker replacement unit which provides rapid freezing capability in support of biological sciences, as well as temperature-controlled transfer to/from the ISS on visiting vehicles.
Manufacturing Device (MAND): The crew removed and stowed a completed print sample. The Manufacturing Device enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the MAND printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. MAND is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
MVP (Multi-use Variable-g Platform) Cell-06: The crew removed eight sample modules from the MVP facility and prepared them for return on SpX-21. The Cartilage–Bone–Synovium Micro-Physiological System Investigation Using the Multi-purpose Variable-G Platform (MVP Cell-06) develops a biological model to study the effects of spaceflight on musculoskeletal disease. Traumatic joint injury may lead to arthritis after loss of cartilage and bone, a disease called post-traumatic osteoarthritis. This investigation could lead to drugs to prevent the progression of this disease.
Plant Habitat-02: Plant Habitat-02: The crew performed the second Harvest of Radish plants in the Plant Habitat-02 facility. Some samples were sanitized for consumption by the crew. Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants.
TangoLab Mission-19: The crew removed Card Cubes from the TangoLab-2 facility. The children investigations to TangoLab Mission-19 are: Evaluation of Powered Ascent Utility Locker, Human Muscle-on-Chip, Project Andromeda, Space Tango-Human Brain Organoids. Space Tango’s TangoLab-2 locker is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development (R&D) and pilot manufacturing aboard the International Space Station (ISS). TangoLab-2 is similar to TangoLab-1 with the primary difference being an upgraded fan system which allows for a greater heat rejection capability. This upgrade enables payloads with greater power draw and lower temperature requirements to use the facility.
Rodent Research-23 (RR-23): The crew performed the activities necessary to restock the RR Habitats. Effects of Microgravity on Ocular Vascular Hydrodynamics, or Rodent Research-23 (RR-23), studies function of arteries, veins, and lymphatic structures in the eye and changes in the retina before and after spaceflight. The aim is to clarify whether these vascular changes impair visual function. At least 40 percent of astronauts experience vision impairment known as Spaceflight-Associated Neuro-ocular Syndrome (SANS) on long-duration spaceflights, which could adversely affect mission success.
Space Studio KIBO: The crew performed the setup for KIBO Studio sessions. The Space Frontier Studio KIBO is a broadcasting studio that is constructed and operated in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM), also known as Kibo. The studio can livestream activities, interactive entertainment, and communication from space. The program can receive uplinked video and audio from a ground studio to Space Frontier Studio KIBO, and downlink video and audio from space to ground.
Systems
ISS Power Augmentation Rollout Solar Arrays (IROSA) Mod Kit Stow: The crew prepared and stowed the P6 truss Power Channel 2B and 4B mod kits. This activity is in preparation for the IROSA Prep EVA planned in January 2021 and the IROSA EVA planned for June 2021.
Completed Task List Activities:

Cardinal Heart media exchange
FOP hardware stow
Toilet inspection stow

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

Payloads ops support
Cargo transfer ops
Dragon wakeup checkout

