12-31-2010December 31, 2010
ISS On-Orbit Status 12/31/10 Happy New Year’s Eve! (16 times for the Exp-26/27 crew of CDR Scott Kelly, FE-1 Alexander Kaleri, FE-2 Oleg Skripochka, FE-4 Dmitri Kondratyev, F-5 Paolo Nespoli & FE-6 Catherine Coleman while counting down to 2011!) All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   FE-2 Oleg Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Oleg will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.] CDR Kelly performed another status check on the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge, looking for any internal condensation moisture which would require replacing desiccants.     [MERLIN, the Galley fridge, is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.  If Scott found moisture, a change-out of the desiccant will be scheduled.  Daily checks by the crew are currently required because the ground has lost insight into MERLIN due to issues with the failed ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6) laptop software load on 12/28.  A manual software load by a crewmember will be scheduled for 1/3.  FDS (Fire Detection & Suppression) capabilities for the rack are still in place.] At the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), Scott performed troubleshooting on the CCF (Capillary Channel Flow) experiment unit, checking a power cable and connector pins.    [They may be the cause that two separate motors in the payload are not responding to commands from the ground.] In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Scott later supported the BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) payload by performing the periodic camera setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) with Sample 10, without SSC (Station Support Computer).    [The checkup includes image transfer, camera battery and camera/flash position.  It is scheduled daily starting at Initiation+1 day during automated photography. Pictures are being taken automatically of Sample 10 for 14 days (started on 12/30).] FE-6 Coleman conducted the weekly “T+2d” in-flight microbiology analyses of the potable water samples collected on 12/29 from the EHS PWD (Environmental Health Systems / Potable Water Dispenser) Ambient port for in-flight analysis.      [In-flight sample analysis was performed with the WMK MCD (Water Microbiology Kit/Microbial Capture Devices) for microbial traces, and the CDB (Coliform Detection Bag) for in-flight coliform bacteria (Escherichia coli) detection (Magenta for Positive, Yellow for Negative).  Results of the on-board processing with the MWAK are available after 4-6 days of incubation.] Scott & Cady filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).      [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces & spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.] Working in “his” Soyuz TMA-20/25S spacecraft, Kondratyev continued troubleshooting activities on the GA/gas analyzer in the SA/Descent Module, supporting the ground during an RGS (Russian Groundsite) comm pass.    [The troubleshooting is to determine why the SA continues to blow power line fuses.]  FE-5 Nespoli set up the CANON G1 video camcorder at the earth-facing Cupola window #2 to support ESA in recording footage of the overflown Earth surface.  The recording was terminated about 5 hrs later.  At ~4:15am & 5:55am EST, the six crewmembers participated in two PAO TV events with TsUP-Moscow via Ku-&S-band to exchange New Year’s greetings with Energia, GCTC (Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center), TsUP and IMBP (Institute of Medico-Biological Problems) management and personnel. At ~7:20am, the crew conducted the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events. The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).  Paolo’s workout on the ARED was captured on video and downlinked for subsequent biomechanical evaluation of the crewmember and hardware status at MCC-H. Jobs listed for Kaleri, Skripochka & Kondratyev today on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list were –Another ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera photography with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens,A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, andA ~15-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining NIKON D3 photos with Nikkor 80-200 mm lens and the SONY HD video camcorder on oceanic color bloom patterns in the waters of South-Eastern Pacific and South-Western Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC water audit.      [The new card (26-0045B) lists 123 CWCs (2,589.2 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (27 CWCs with 1061.5 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 604.2 L in 16 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 300.1 L in 7 bags for flushing only with microbial filter, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (85 CWCs with 1,501.2 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (6.3 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 7 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (20.2 L in 1 CWC from hose/pump flush & 1 empty bag).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.] CEO (Crew Earth Observation) target uploaded today (with New Year greetings) was Bulgaria-Turkey-Greece at night (looking right for clusters of city lights in the Danube valley nearer track [Bucharest, Romania], around Sofia [Bulgaria] further off track, then the Istanbul region of western Turkey.  Visibility should have been good after passage of a front, so that the Greek Islands and Athens also should have been visible further south).  