
Payloads:
Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (CARDIOBREATH): The crew donned the Bio-Monitor Garment and Headband. The crew then connected the equipment to both the Data Unit and the Bio-Monitor App for a 1.5 hr data collection during a CEVIS exercise session. Astronauts experience changes in their cardiovascular, respiratory, and musculoskeletal systems during spaceflight, which can affect their capacity to exercise and to maintain blood pressure when standing after return to Earth. CARDIOBREATH studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight. Results could provide a better understanding of the mechanisms of these adaptations on long-duration missions and support the development of methods for assessing cardiovascular and respiratory effects on blood pressure before and after spaceflight.
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL): SABL-4 Unit was removed and prepared for return on SpX-26. The CO2 Incubator Controller was removed from SABL-1. The SABL unit supports a wide variety of investigations in life, physical, and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. SABL can be fitted to provide any required concentration of CO2 for cell cultures or other types of investigations. The SABL unit also has two USB 2.0 ports, two Ethernet LAN connections, switchable 28VDC and 5VDC power supplies for investigation use.
Spaceborne Computer-2: The Spaceborne Computer-2 units were removed and prepared for return. Spaceborne Computer-2 High Performance Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Computer System on the ISS builds upon the successes of Spaceborne Computer, exploring how it can advance exploration by processing data significantly faster in space with cutting edge computing and Artificial Intelligence (AI) capabilities. Spaceborne Computer-2 further tests additional techniques for recovering or mitigating errors in the extreme environment of unprotected solar radiation, Galactic Cosmic Radiation (GCR) and other events. Additionally, Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) works with the space community and the ISS-National Laboratory (ISS-NL) to test and demonstrate that current Earth-based data processing of ISS experimental data can be performed onboard during the anticipated 24 to 36 month mission of Spaceborne Computer-2.
Sphere Camera-1: Sphere Cam-1 was repositioned and setup in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF). SphereCam-1 uses COTS ultra-high resolution digital movie camera with a wide-angle lens to collect footage in microgravity and evaluate technical performance of the camera. Investigators plan to use results to design and develop subsequent cameras for testing and, ultimately, provide a product that could support groundbreaking imaging of space with greater resolution, detail, and sharpness than anything currently available commercially.
Veg-05: Plants were checked, watered if necessary, and any detached tomatoes collected were weighed. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Hard Upper Torso (HUT) On-Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew performed an on-orbit change out of the HUT on the EMU with a spare standalone HUT. This R&R was performed to downsize the HUT on EMU 3004 from a Large to a Medium HUT in preparation for future EVAs. The EMU is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) R&R: Ground teams continued R&R operations from yesterday by removing the failed P34B-E and installing it into the empty S04B-C slot using the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). Following that, the S04B-C RPCM will be removed from the temporary stowed location at the S04B-H slot and installed into the P34B-E slot. Later today, the Mobile Transporter (MT), SSRMS, and SPDM will be safed and stowed in their final locations. The RPCM is the workhorse of the secondary power distribution system, containing solid-state or electromechanical switches, known as Remote Power Controllers (RPCs). RPCs can be remotely commanded to control the flow of power through the distribution network and to the users.
Completed Task List Activities:

NanoRacks Module-9 Ops Session 4 Alternate

Today’s Ground Activities:
All activities are complete unless otherwise noted.

MSS RPCM R&R
PRO TSIS Commanding
PRO STP-H5 Deactivation Commanding for EXPA2

