
Payloads:
BioNutrients-1: Following the conclusion of the 48-hour experiment session, the crew inserted the 8 production packs into cold stowage and filled out a survey. BioNutrients demonstrates a technology that enables on-demand production of human nutrients during long-duration space missions. The process uses engineered microbes, like yeast, to generate carotenoids from an edible media to supplement potential vitamin losses from food that is stored for very long periods. Specially designed storage/growth packets are intermittently activated by astronauts over a five-year period, then frozen and returned to Earth for examination.
Four Bed CO2 Scrubber (4BCO2): The crew gained access to the Four Bed CO2 Scrubber system with a goal of replacing the 4BCO2 Bed Filters. While one of the filters was removed and replaced, the crew was unable to remove the other, and the ground team will discuss a forward plan. 4BCO2 demonstrates a technology for removing CO2 from the atmosphere on a spacecraft. The technology is based on the current system in use on the ISS with mechanical upgrades in absorption beds, heater elements, and valves and use of an improved zeolite absorbent to reduce erosion and dust formation. A goal for next-generation systems is continuous operation for 20,000 hours without a failure, and this technology is a step toward that goal.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The crew gained access to the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) work volume and performed an exchange of the sample preform and spool. The preform is a rod of raw ZBLAN material from which the fiber is drawn. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN. Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth. Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
SpaceWear Monitor: SpaceWear data was transferred to the ground, and the hardware was stowed. The purpose of the Demonstration of a Wearable for Space and Extreme Environments (SpaceWear Monitor) is to prove the functionality of the Wearable Health Monitoring System by a crewmember aboard the ISS. SpaceWear is capable of measuring G-loads (when worn during launch/landing), electrocardiogram (ECG), heart rate (HR), heart rate variability, respiratory rates, and skin temperature.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: The crew performed a VR Mental Care experiment session. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality (HQ) VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires (via the ESA EveryWear app).
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub: The crew completed an EMU Hard Upper Torso (HUT) Scrubber install and an EMU Cooling Loop Scrub. EMU loop scrubs are required preventative maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU cooling loop. The EMU is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew conducted routine maintenance to R&R the WHC UR and IF. As part of the R&R, the crew cleaned the WHC power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance. The UR On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) consists of a replaceable Russian-supplied funnel, urine hose, and a receptacle switch for turning the WHC on/off and the associated wiring.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Monthly Inspection: The crew completed a regular maintenance inspection to ensure the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition. The crew inspected all four Snubber Arms for any sign of free play, as well as make any necessary adjustments to reduce the free play. The crew also performed additional inspections for Sorbothane residue on Snubber Pins, the Snubber Pin position within the Snubber Cup, and all tape and witness markings on the T2 Thumbwheels, Snubber Jam Nuts, and Snubber Cup Housing.
On-orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA) with KUDUwave Software Setup and Test: The crew performed a hearing test using an OOHA Headset and KUDUwave software. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.
