
Rodent Research-19 (RR-19): The crew continued to perform Bone Densitometer scans using the Experiment box in the Life Science Glovebox. Mighty Mice in Space: Preclinical Evaluation of a Broad Spectrum Myostatin Inhibitor to Prevent Muscle and Bone Loss Due to Disuse uses rodent models on the ISS to investigate the potential benefits of targeting the myostatin (MSTN) and activin signaling pathways to prevent skeletal muscle and bone loss during spaceflight and on the recovery of muscle and bone following return to Earth. This research could provide valuable preclinical data to support clinical trials for MSTN therapies for a wide range of conditions that affect muscle and bone health. Such research is particularly important for conditions that involve disuse muscle atrophy (muscle wasting due to immobility or lessened activity)—for example, patients recovering from hip fracture surgery, intensive care patients, and the elderly.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The Crew replaced the Media Bag and Waste Bag inside the Tissue Cassettes of the BFF and installed the facility into the Microgravity Experiment Research Locker/Incubator (MERLIN) unit for SpX-19 return. The BFF is dedicated to manufacturing human organs and tissues in space, primarily for use by patients on Earth. Besides printing tissue, the BFF also can help maintain the health of deep space exploration crews by producing food and personalized pharmaceuticals on demand.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): As a continuation of the s-Flame experiment, the crew performed manifold H2 and CH4 bottle exchanges. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity.
Space Tango MultiLab Locker (TangoLab-2): The crew removed Card #07, performed a telemetry check and took documentation photos. TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable general research facilities designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS.
Hybrid Electronic Radiation Assessor (ISS HERA): The crew de-installed the HERA hardware and packed it for return on SpX-19. ISS HERA refines data analysis and operational products that support future exploration missions. It uses an existing on-orbit radiation detection system developed for Orion and Exploration Mission 1 (EM-1), modified to operate on the space station. The investigation also serves an opportunity to evaluate this hardware in the space radiation environment prior to the EM-1 flight.
Systems:
Lab Port 6 (LAB1P6) Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Water Separator Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew completed a second replacement of the Water Separator that was originally replaced last week. After the R&R, ground teams determined the incorrect spare serial number had been installed. The crew installed the correct spare and a nominal checkout of the system was performed. The CCAA is the primary component responsible for the control of temperature and humidity in the USOS segment and consists of a fan, a condensing heat exchanger, an air/water separator, temperature and liquid sensors, and electrical controlling hardware. 
SpX-19 Cargo Operations: In preparation for the SpX-19 unberth and return to the ground, the ISS crew took the opportunity to work on Cargo transfer operations. The ISS crew, working off a Cargo Transfer list, packed and transferred a variety cargo items on the Dragon vehicle. SpX-19 is scheduled to depart ISS on Sunday, January 5th.
Robotic Survey of Columbus (COL) Trunnions:  The robotics team performed a survey of the Cargo Bridge & Columbus Trunnion using the MSS cameras in preparation for the Bartolomeo (BTL) commercial facility arriving on SpX-20.  Upon arrival, it will be robotically deployed and attached to the ram-facing Columbus (COL) trunnion pins.  The trunnion-to-trunnion distance is critical to the success of Bartolomeo installation as a larger-than-expected spacing could result in excessive structural loading within the outrigger beam during trunnion clamp closure.  This survey will assist in confirming the on orbit trunnion-to-trunnion measurement.

