ISS On-Orbit Status 01/04/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 FE-4 Dmitri Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator, installed (by Maxim Suraev on 10/19/09) in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dima will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 CDR Kelly Scott continued his current week-long regimen with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 5<sup>th</sup> session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 FE-5 Nespoli had Day 2 of his 2<sup>nd</sup> suite of sessions with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.  No special diet intact required.     [For Pro K, there will be five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day.  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
 At wake-up, FE-2 Kondratyev terminated his 2<sup>nd</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
 FE-5 also conducted the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the “bake-out” cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated at ~4:15pm EST before sleep time.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 12/13-15).]
 
 FE-6 Coleman serviced the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge, today removing all contents including the used-up desiccants intended to prevent internal condensation moisture, then propped the door open for a 24h moisture dry-out.    [MERLIN is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.]
 
 Later, Cady undertook the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh her CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on Eye Treatment.     [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]
 
 Continuing EVA equipment maintenance in the US Airlock, Scott Kelly initiated another EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) battery maintenance cycle on the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly) which takes the batteries through a charge-discharge-recharge cycle.
 
 Afterwards, Scott &amp; Paolo had ~2hrs set aside for resizing their spacesuits, to have them ready in case a spacewalk is required for the arrival &amp; berthing of the HTV (H-II Transfer Vehicle) on 1/27.     [EMU 3010 is Kelly’s suit; EMU 3005 is Nespoli’s suit.]
 
 In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Scott later supported the BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) payload by performing the periodic camera setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) with Sample 10, without SSC (Station Support Computer).    [The checkup includes image transfer, camera battery and camera/flash position.  It is currently scheduled every other day after Initiation+1 day during automated photography. Pictures are being taken automatically of Sample 10 for 14 days (started on 12/30).]
 
 Later, the CDR downloaded data from his SLEEP AW (Actiwatch) via the AW Reader to the HRF (Human Research Facility) laptop and then initialized the AW for continued data collection, decabled the equipment for stowage and powered off the PC.    [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight) session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 FE-1 Kaleri completed his 4<sup>th</sup> session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.       [Dmitri Kondratyev assisted in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes, applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit and taking documentary photography.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]
 
 Kaleri set up the configuration for conducting the periodic performance tests of the Russian KL-103-Ts onboard television system in the SM (Service Module), using the Klest-M VKU video monitor installed in the SM TsP (Central Post) to check the TV signal several times during the day.
 
 Paolo Nespoli completed the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling in Node-3 using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.     [After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]
 
 Cady Coleman performed routine service on the WRS by transferring 2 CWC-I (Contingency Water Containers-Iodine) bags with water to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) and offloading them.    [Estimated offload times: Bag #2009 – 6 mins., Bag #2010 – 15 mins.]
 
 After gathering &amp; preparing the necessary tools, FE-2 Skripochka &amp; FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the periodic inspection &amp; photo-documentation of RS (Russian Segment) window panes, specifically on windows 1, 2, 3, 5, 13, 14, 26 in the SM and VL1 (EV hatch 1) &amp; VL2 (EV hatch 2) in the DC1 Docking Compartment &amp; in the MRM2 Poisk module.  The observed defects were recorded in image and text files on the RSK1 laptop for subsequent downlink via U.S. OCA assets.     [Objective of the inspection, which uses a digital still camera (Nikon D1X w/SB-28DX flash) and voice recorder, was to assess the window pane surfaces for any changes (new cavities, scratches, new or expanded old stains or discolorations affecting transparency properties) since the last inspection.  The new assessment will be compared to earlier observations.  Defects on the currently  are measured with the parallax method which uses eyeball-sighting with a ruler and a right isosceles triangle to determine the defects' size and position with respect to the window's internal surface (parallax being the apparent change in an object's position resulting from changing the observer's position).]
 
 Oleg completed his 6<sup>th</sup> data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.      [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
 After making preparations &amp; reviewing instructional material yesterday, Scott started the 2-year maintenance/overhaul of the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment), today using ~1h15m for replacing piping (urine lines).     [The WHC 2-Year Changeout replaces urine lines, pressure sensors and the Urine Valve Block; these are yearly tasks and were performed last year.  Also replaced will be water lines, pressure sensors, and the Water Valve Block; these 2-year tasks have never been performed on WHC as yet.  The procedure includes a corrective maintenance activity to remove the internal UMS (Urine Monitoring System) line that was found to be contaminated with microbial growth during Inc-24.  UMS will arrive on ULF5, along with a new adapter.  Finally, the piping between the Pretreat &amp; Water Pump and the Pump Separator needs to be changed out.]
 
 FE-5 Nespoli set up, checked out and conducted his first test run with the French/CNES neuroscientific research experiment “3D-Space” (SAP) as Subject #8, while free-floating, using the ESA MPPL (Multipurpose Laptop) with a prepared HDD (Hard Disk Drive), data storage on a PCMCIA memory card, and an electronic pen table connected to it.  Afterwards, FE-6 Coleman, who took photographs of Paolo, also performed her first 3D-Space (SAP) experiment session, as Subject #9.    [3D Space, which involves distance, writing and illusion exercises, is designed to test the hypothesis that altered visual perception affects motor control.  To do this, the subject is asked to reproduce shapes or text on an electronic pen tablet (Wacom Intuos3 A4) which allows researchers to record and analyze the reactions both on earth and in space.]
 
 Cady downloaded and saved the ECG (Electrocardiograph) data recorded for the last 24 hrs from her first session (of 3 total) with the JAXA biomedical experiment BIORHYTHMS and its body-worn digital Walk Holter ECG (Electrocardiograph), started yesterday.
 
 Afterwards, FE-6 tackled the 3.5-hr job of removing the LGF (Low Gradient Furnace) from the MSL (Material Science Laboratory) and installing the SQF (Solidification &amp; Quench Furnace) instead.  The activities were video-recorded via the Lab camcorder, and the CDR had ~1h reserved on his timeline to provide assistance and photography.
 
 Alex &amp; Oleg again spent several hours on transferring &amp; loading disposal cargo in Progress M-08M/40P, scheduled for undocking on 1/24.
 
 Skripochka also performed routine maintenance on the KN1(2) and KV1(2) valves of the SM Rodnik tanks, to prevent their failure during the long-term water stowage.    [Each of the four valves was activated twice (On/Off) from the IKR (Rodnik Control System Indicator) panel.] 
 
 Nespoli completed another periodic relocation of the TEPC (Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter) detector assembly, the primary radiation measurement tool in the ISS, moving it from JPM (F3) to the SM (Panel 327), utilizing panel 450 for power.
 
 Afterwards, FE-5 did his first onboard session with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.      [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]
 
 After retrieving the two CSA-O<sub>2</sub> instruments (Compound Specific Analyzer-Oxygen, #1041, #1045) from the Soyuz TMA-01M/24S, Scott activated them in the Lab for their weekly checkout, taking readings, then turning them off again and returning them to 24S.     [The oxygen sensors in the CSA-O<sub>2</sub>s (and CSA-CPs/CSA-Combustion Products) have exceeded their shelf life due to resupply delays.  The new weekly calibration checks will permit continued use of these units until new ones arrive on ULF-5.]  
 
 Dmitri continued the current round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, working in the SM to clean Group B filters &amp; the GZhT heat exchanger grille.
 
 Kondratyev worked for about an hour with Skripochka in partial fulfillment of regular crew handover requirements.
 
 FE-4 also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 FE-1 did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Working on the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exerciser Device), Paolo inspected and greased the VIS (Vibration Isolation System) Y- &amp; Z-axes rails &amp; rollers and upper stops.  Later, after his workout on the device, FE-6 replaced both cable arm ropes and performed the periodic inspection of the recently added rope knot of the ARED’s exercise rope for fraying or damage in the strands.     [These activities were deferred yesterday from Cady’s schedule.]
 
 Before sleeptime, Sasha Kaleri will set up the Russian MBI-12 payload and start his 7<sup>th</sup> Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 FE-1, FE-2, FE-4 &amp; FE-5 had their regular PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Paolo at ~7:40am, Dima at ~10:30am, Alex at ~10:50am, Oleg at ~1:30pm EST.
 
 At ~9:55am, Paolo also had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 Robotics Update:   MT (Mobile Transporter) has moved from WS2 (Work Site 2) to WS5.  The SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator) “Dextre” will be stowed, and the crew will perform SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) practice operations later this week.  Congratulations have been extended to CSA (Canadian Space Agency) for the highly successful SPDM operations which met all FRAM (Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism) grappling/repositioning/ungrappling objectives without a human spacewalker needed.  This is a “signature moment” for the ISS. 
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded today were Bhutan, Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam (looking to the right of the descending pass towards the Ganges River Delta for the cities of Calcutta and Dhaka.  The next brightest city should have been Yangon [Rangoon] located near the Irrawaddy Delta.  Along the Thailand coast was Bangkok.  As ISS neared the Vietnamese coast the crew should also have been able to see Phnom Penh, Cambodia and Ho Chi Minh [Saigon], Vietnam), Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman (looking to the left of this descending pass towards the city of Kuwait at the beginning of the pass.  Continuing to photograph the cities along the Persian [Arabian] Gulf coast, including Bahrain and shortly thereafter Doha, Qatar.  Further left of track the crew should have been able to see the city of Abu Dhabi along the United Arab Emirates coast.  Finishing this pass at the Oman coast), and Libya, Egypt, Sudan, Ethiopia, Somalia (beginning the pass by looking left of track towards coastal cities.  Continuing along track, looking left towards the Nile delta along the Mediterranean Sea coast.  Several cities were illuminated along the Nile River as the crew has documented in the past.  As ISS tracked closer to the Red Sea coast the crew was to look for the larger cities.  This pass ended along the Somalia coast, very close to or perhaps nadir to Muqdisho [Mogadishu]). 
 
 
