
Payloads:
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light end-of-day assessment was performed. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Earthshine from ISS: The experiment hardware was set up, and photos were taken of the Moon.  The Earthshine from ISS investigation involves the thorough analysis of photos taken of the Moon from the ISS at specific points in the lunar cycle to study changes in the Earth’s reflectance of light, or albedo. Activities consist of in-flight sessions comprised of photography of the Moon by the crew using a handheld digital camera and lens available onboard the ISS.
RadMap: In a continuation of troubleshooting activities, the crew swapped an ethernet cable; however, this troubleshooting step did not resolve the issue, which began over the weekend. The Validating New Radiation-Sensing Technologies (RadMap Telescope) demonstrates new radiation-sensing technologies for applications in autonomous and crewed spacecraft. These technologies, which have just become sufficiently mature for large-scale applications, enable compact yet highly capable radiation monitors so future spacecraft can benefit from increased measurement capabilities with fewer sensors.
Sleep in Orbit: Following charging of the batteries, the crew donned the experiment hardware and began an overnight recording session. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep in Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear- Electroencephalography (EEG) based sleep monitoring.
Space Health: The crew reapplied the electrode gel and continued the 48-hour data collection session. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crewmember physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Space Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter (SpaceTED): The Secure Digital (SD) card was removed from SpaceTED, the data was downlinked, and the fan air inlet was cleaned. Exposure to space radiation can introduce hazards to crew member health and the function of equipment in space. Building on a previous space station study, SpaceTED aims to develop a device to collect data on crew radiation exposure and characterize the space radiation environment. This low-cost, portable device may be able to better assess radiation risks and help protect crew members and systems on long-term missions.
Systems:
Columbus Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Maintenance Operations: Today, the crew installed the ITCS Maintenance Canister Assembly (ICMA) in the Columbus module. Columbus ITCS fluid will pass through the ICMA through Thursday, January 11th, introducing the antimicrobial agent Ortho-Phthalaldehyde (OPA) into the system. This activity is a part of standard Columbus maintenance to ensure that the ITCS system maintains its ability to provide thermal control.
Russian EDV Inspection: Today, the crew performed a visual inspection of a Russian EDV to determine if its contents can be processed through the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA). Imagery of the Russian EDV was downlinked for ground teams to analyze.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Inspection: Today, the ISS crew completed regularly scheduled maintenance on the ARED Vibration Isolation System (VIS) Rails and Rollers, Upper Stop Cables, and X-Rotation Dashpots. The crew also provided feedback on ARED performance while the ARED Lift Bar was moving between Lower Stops and Upper Stops. This quarterly maintenance allows the ARED exercise device to keep operating nominally as well as verifying if any wear and tear exists on the hardware.
