
Body Measures Investigation:  FE-6 Hopkins, with operator assistance from FE-6 Wakata, set up cameras and cabin video, performed body marker instrumentation, and collected calibration and body pose images and circumference measurements. This is Hopkins’ flight day 105 session.  The goal of this study is to gather data to better understand the magnitude and variability of changes due to microgravity and fluid shifts within the human body during long-duration space flight.  Results of the investigation may result in changes to space suit fit and sizing, workstation design, etc. for future missions to maximize performance, prevent injury, and reduce crew time to accommodate their anthropometrics.
Circadian Rhythms:  Wakata donned Thermolab double sensors and mounted the Thermolab unit on his belt. Wakata is scheduled to wear the equipment for next 36 hours.  This study examines the circadian variation of astronaut’s cardiac autonomic function during space flight. The research is expected to provide insights into changes in those functions before, during and after long-duration space flight and may be used to improve the health care technology used for future ISS crewmembers.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-4 Investigation:  FE-5 Mastracchio set up the BCAT-4 sample module, photographed samples 1-10, and then stowed the module.  BCAT-4 investigates how crystals form from solid materials suspended in a liquid.  Comparing crystals grown in space with those grown on the ground reveals how the forces of gravity influence the creation of these crystalline structures. The experiment serves to improve scientific understanding of important physics processes, including how crystals form in different temperatures and at different particle concentrations in the liquid.
Sprint Ultrasound Scans: Hopkins was the ultrasound operator, for Wakata’s 3rd of 7 planned Sprint ultrasound scans of the thigh and calf, with remote guidance from the ground team.  Prior to the scans Wakata configured the equipment and, with Hopkin’s assistance, placed reference marks on his calf and thigh of his right leg, and don thigh and calf guides.  The Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Columbus Internal Thermal Control Systems (ITCS) Water Sampling:  Hopkins collected the last of the ITCS samples scheduled this week by collecting one from the Columbus Module. This preventative maintenance task is performed to determine the Ortho-Phthalaldehyde (OPA) and ammonia levels in the ITCS for each of the modules.

