
Rodent Research-19 (RR-19): The crew completed the last set of Bone Densitometer scans using the Experiment box in the Life Science Glovebox. The crew also performed the Rodent Transporter Setup. Mighty Mice in Space: Preclinical Evaluation of a Broad Spectrum Myostatin Inhibitor to Prevent Muscle and Bone Loss Due to Disuse uses rodent models on the ISS to investigate the potential benefits of targeting the myostatin (MSTN) and activin signaling pathways to prevent skeletal muscle and bone loss during spaceflight and on the recovery of muscle and bone following return to Earth. This research could provide valuable preclinical data to support clinical trials for MSTN therapies for a wide range of conditions that affect muscle and bone health. Such research is particularly important for conditions that involve disuse muscle atrophy (muscle wasting due to immobility or lessened activity)—for example, patients recovering from hip fracture surgery, intensive care patients, and the elderly.
Bone Densitometer (BD): The crew changed out the Imaging unit in the Bone Densitometer and took historical photos. Approximately the size of a consumer microwave oven, the Bone Densitometer (BD) uses X-rays to measure the bone mineral density (and the lean and fat tissue) of mice living aboard the ISS. As a result, researchers hope to develop medical technology that will combat bone density loss in space and on Earth, helping millions of senior citizens who suffer from osteoporosis.
ICE Cubes Facility: The crew removed Cube #6 (KIRARA) in preparation for return on SpX-19. In the Ice Cubes Experiment Cube #6 – Kirara mission, a 1-Unit (1U)-sized incubator, equipped with a temperature controller, is used to allow protein crystallization to happen in microgravity under a well-maintained temperature inside the cube. This first mission is aimed as an in-orbit validation test for a protein crystallization service as part of future commercial space activities. This first demonstration mission includes proteins for seven different companies and research institute
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L): The crew removed the Humidifier fan unit from the CBEF 1G incubator. Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Space Moss: The crew performed Space Moss sample fixation using the CBEF-micro-G and 1G facilities. Environmental Response and Utilization of Mosses in Space – Space Moss (Space Moss) grows mosses aboard the space station, and on Earth, to determine how microgravity affects their growth, development, gene expression, photosynthetic activity, and other features. Tiny plants without roots, mosses need only a small area for growth, an advantage for their potential use in space and future bases on the Moon or Mars.
Systems:
SpX-19 Cargo Operations: In preparation for the SpX-19 unberth and return to the ground, the ISS crew took the opportunity to work on Cargo transfer operations. The ISS crew, working off a Cargo Transfer list, packed and transferred a variety cargo items on the Dragon vehicle. SpX-19 is scheduled to depart ISS on Sunday, January 5th.
Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Ultra High Frequency (UHF) Communication Unit (CUCU) Crew Command Panel (CCP) Checkout: In preparation for SpX-19 Dragon vehicle departure, the crew successfully checked out the CUCU and CCP. The CUCU system provides a command and telemetry communications link between the ISS and Dragon vehicle during free flight operations while in close proximity of the ISS.
Columbus Space Station Computer (SSC): Earlier this week, the Columbus SSC went offline and would not reboot. Troubleshooting was not successful at returning the SSC to service. Today, the crew performed a shell swap. The SSC was returned to a nominal configuration following the activity.
Space Debris Sensor (SDS) Transfer to Cygnus: Ground controllers performed a robotic survey of the SDS payload prior to the Columbus Exposed Facility site and transferred the payload to Cygnus.  Northrop Grumman 12 (NG-12) is the first mission with passive Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) sites located on the Cygnus vehicle.  These sites are planned to allow for the disposal of ISS FRAM payloads and Flight Support Equipment (FSE).

