
Rodent Research-8 (RR-8): Crewmembers performed the Rodent Research Access Unit Cleaning procedure. The Rodent Research-8 (RR-8) investigation utilizes mice flown aboard the ISS, and maintained on Earth, to investigate the physiology of aging in response to microgravity and the role of aging in the onset and progression of disease.
Materials International Space Station Experiment (MISSE-10): Today the ground robotics team extracted the MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT) from the JEM ORU Transport interface (JOTI) mounted on the JEM Airlock slide table. The MTT was then transferred to site Express Logistics Carrier-2 (ELC-2) site via the Mobile Transport and for the next three days, a failed switch box will be replaced, seven MISSE Sample Carriers (MSC) will be mounted on the MISSE Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) platform and one MSC will be de-installed and returned to the JEM airlock. MISSE-10-NASA hosts a suite of eight NASA investigations aboard the MISSE-FF. The MISSE-10 mission exposes 188 samples consisting of radiation protection, radiation detection, laminates, coatings, polymetric, high-efficiency low-mass solar cell systems, composites and additively-manufactured materials to the space environment.
Neutron Star Interior Composition Explorer (NICER): Today the NICER instrument package was rotated into the stowed position and deactivated to allow MISSE Robotics operations. Upon completion of the Robotics operations, the instrument package will be redeployed and reactivated. The NICER payload studies the extraordinary physics of stars, providing new insights into their nature and behavior.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R):  The crew performed routine maintenance and replaced the WHC Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter. After replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was performed and the WHC was declared operational.
SpaceX-16 Cargo Operations: In preparation for Dragon departure planned for January 10, the crew continued to load cargo into the vehicle.

