ISS On-Orbit Status 01/06/12
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 After wakeup, FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection. 
 
 CDR Burbank had several hours set aside for closing out and restowing the equipment used for the EPIC upgrades of the C&amp;C (Command &amp; Control) and GNC MDMs (Guidance, Navigation &amp; Control Multiplexer/Demultiplexer) computers in the USOS (US Orbit Segment).
 
 FE-4 Kononenko configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h5m session, his first, which forbids moving or talking during data recording. The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure. The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA. [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions. By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]
 
 FE-5 Kuipers performed operations with the NanoRacks Smartphone Module-17 experiment, to check out how smartphones operate in space. Activities included first reviewed briefing material, next setting up the camcorder for documenting video of the operations and then performing imagery and life cycle tests on two smartphones. Smartphone-2 was left powered on.[ISS National Laboratory partner NanoRacks LLC has a collaboration with Odyssey &amp; Apple which enabled Odyssey to send two iPhone 4's to ISS as part of the STS-135 mission on 7/8/11. These phones are like the ones found in stores, but with certain alterations to meet NASA flight certification standards. The iPhone 4 was selected for its mix of features, which include a three-axis gyro, an accelerometer, a high resolution camera and screen, and the means to manipulate the image. The smartphones use the same software as their Earth counterparts, and standard tools were used to develop a new app called “SpaceLab for iOS” which enables the planned research aboard the station (the app is also available for people to download to their own devices). The hope is to use the compact hardware in future research studies and to augment crew performance and productivity in operational activities. Currently there are four separate experiments that will run on the smartphones via “SpaceLab for iOS”: (1) Limb Tracker (a navigation experiment using photos of the Earth and image overlay manipulation to match the horizon to an arc to give an estimate of altitude and off-axis angles), (2) Sensor Calibration or Sensor Cal (using reference photos and the three-axis gyro and accelerometer for calibration to improve measurement accuracy, (3) State Acquisition or State Acq (also using photos, but this time to estimate spacecraft orbital parameters), and LFI/Lifecycle Flight Instrumentation (tracking the impact of radiation on the phones by monitoring radiation-induced single bit upsets, which are unintended changes in memory location values).]
 
 In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-6 Pettit powered on the USND-2 (Ultrasound 2) and VPC (Video Power Converter) hardware, connected VPC to HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1), and underwent his first ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Resting Echo Scan in the US Lab, assisted by Dan Burbank who served as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) to operate the USND scans. Pettit then transferred the data from the USND2 hard drive to the USND2 USB for subsequent downlink. [Wearing electrodes, ECG (Electrocardiograph) cable &amp; VOX, Don underwent the USND scan for ICV assessment, with video being recorded from the HRF (Human Research Facility) Ultrasound and COL cabin camera. Heart rate was tracked with the HRM (Heart Rate Monitor). There are dietary constraints, and no exercise is allowed 4 hrs prior to scan. After confirmed file transfer, the gear was powered down and stowed. Later, the data from the two HM-2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi Cards and two Actiwatch Spectrums were downloaded. The USND echo experiment uses the Image Collector software on the laptop and requires VOX/Voice plus RT Video downlink during the activity. Goal of the ICV experiment is to quantify the extent, time course, and clinical significance of cardiac atrophy and identify its mechanisms. The ICV experiment consists of two separate but related activities over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session. The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there are fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).]
 
 Afterwards, Pettit conducted an ESA Vessel Imaging (Echography) ultrasound scan in the COL on the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop, using the Image Collector software, with VOX/Voice plus real-time video downlink during the activity. [Vascular Echography (Vessel Imaging) evaluates the changes in central and peripheral blood vessel wall properties (thickness and compliance) and cross sectional areas of long-duration ISS crewmembers during and after long-term exposure to microgravity. An LBNP (Lower Body Negative Pressure) program will be run in parallel to Vessel Imaging. Flow velocity changes in the aorta and the middle cerebral and femoral arteries will be used to quantify the cardiovascular response to fluid shift. Vessel Imaging aims to optimize the countermeasures used routinely during long-duration space missions.]
 
 Later, Don also performed the leg self scan as part of the SPRINT protocol he is currently on. [SPRINT is a special experimental protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND leg muscle self scan in COL. No exercise is being timelined for Fridays. If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.]
 
 FE-5 Kuipers concluded his first (FD15) ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity (~10:25am EST). Later, Andre powered on the laptop and downloaded the data from the two Actiwatch Spectrums, copied the data from the 2 HM2 HiFi CF Cards to the HRF PC and downloaded Cardiopres data. [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis. The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute). After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres/BP is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required. After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.]
 
 FE-1 Shkaplerov continued the current round of the periodic inspection and photo-documentation of window panes in the SM, on windows 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 &amp; 26 started yesterday. The observed defects were recorded in image and text files on the RSK1 laptop for subsequent downlink via U.S. OCA assets. [Objective of the inspection, which uses a digital still camera (Nikon D2X w/SB-28DX flash) and voice recorder, is to assess the pane surfaces on RS for any changes (new cavities, scratches, new or expanded old stains or discolorations affecting transparency properties) since the last inspection. The new assessment will be compared to the earlier observations. Defects are measured with the parallax method which uses eyeball-sighting with a ruler and a right isosceles triangle to determine the defects' size and position with respect to the window's internal surface (parallax being the apparent change in an object's position resulting from changing the observer's position).]
 
 Afterwards, Anton terminated the charging process on the battery of the TTM-2 heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer of the Russian BAR science hardware.
 
 With its TTM-2 heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer battery recharged in the morning, Shkaplerov &amp; Ivanishin spent another ~2 hrs with the KPT-2 payload with its BAR science instruments suite, checking out micro conditions of the SM surface in areas with identified signs of microflora growth on the pressurized shell surface and measuring local temperatures with the Piren-V pyro-endoscope. [Problem area monitoring is necessary to predict shell micro-destruction rate and to develop measures to extend station life. Data were copied to the RSE1 laptop for downlink to Earth via OCA, with photographs, and the activities were supported by ground specialist tagup as required. Objective of the Russian KPT-2/BARscience payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night). Piren-V is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization. Besides KPT-2 Piren-V, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times. Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
 Kononenko set up the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) hardware at SM window #9 for another sun-glint observation session, using the bracket-mounted spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor) for unattended ops, synchronized with the coaxially mounted NIKON D2X camera for taking snapshots, and later downloaded the data to laptop RS1 for subsequent downlink via OCA. [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere.]
 
 Ivanishin gathered manual SRN pump assembly hardware required for work on the SOTR GK (gydrokonture) fluid loop in the MRM1 Rassvet module.
 
 Anatoly &amp; Oleg had several hours for stowing excessed equipment on Progress 45P, logging moves in the IMS (Inventory Management System).
 
 Burbank &amp; Pettit filled out their weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), the 6th for Dan and the 2nd for Don. [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software. Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins. The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health. Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 Pettit used the CSA-O2 (Compound Specific Analyzer-O2) units (#1043, #1048) to take oxygen partial pressure readings in the SM and COL.
 
 Depending on Don’s readings, on TsUP Go Kononenko was to refresh ISS cabin atmosphere with another O2 represses from Progress 45P SRPK tankage.
 
 Oleg took care of the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Anatoly performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 Dan Burbank spent ~1 hr with André Kuipers in another handover session, during which Dan familiarized his crewmate with USOS activities.
 
 The CDR &amp; FE-6 had another time slot reserved for making entries in their electronic Journals on their personal SSC (Station Support Computer). [Required are three journaling sessions per week.] 
 
 Soyuz 29S crewmembers Kononenko &amp; Kuipers again had about an hour of free time for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization &amp; acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.
 
 At ~3:10am EST, Anton, Anatoly &amp; Oleg linked up with TsUP-Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
 At ~9:10am, Dan &amp; André conducted the regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
 At ~10:35am, Dan &amp; Don supported a PAO TV event, responding to live interviews with KGW-TV, Portland, OR and The Huffington Post (Jake Bialer). 
 
 At ~2:10pm, the six-member crew was scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H.
 
 Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
 The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2). [FE-6 is on the special SPRINT protocol.]
 
 The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for FE-1, FE-2 &amp; FE-4 for today suggested more preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) Note: ISS daylight-awake orbit tracks have assumed a seasonal pattern in which they temporarily parallel the terminator. Consequently most of the nadir views of CEO target areas fall below the criteria for illumination, with darkness to the left of track and adequate lighting right of track. This condition is expected to persist at least through 1/12. Today none of our target areas had sufficient illumination. Overall auroral activity is low to moderate with late pre-sunset light in the Northern and pre-dawn light in the Southern Hemisphere skies, so these phenomena are not expected to be worthwhile targets today. In lieu of traditional targets, CEO also looks for nighttime opportunities of cities in near-nadir to oblique views. CEO targets uplinked for today were Major Southern Indian Cities at Night (generally fair weather with some smog or haze for this early evening pass over southern India. As ISS approached from the NW, the crew should have encountered Mumbai, near nadir; then Hyderabad just left of track; followed by Bangalore just right; and finally Madras on the coast and just left of track. At this time, they were to begin looking and acquiring imagery for the next three minutes), and Southern African Coastal Cities at Night (weather was expected to have cleared for this pass, as ISS approached from the NW, offering good views of the major city of Cape Town and the smaller cities of Port Elizabeth and East London. At this time, the crew was to begin looking and acquiring imagery for the next three minutes).
 
 
