
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The crew gained access to the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) work volume and performed an exchange of the sample preform and spool. The preform is a rod of raw ZBLAN material from which the fiber is drawn. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN.  Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth.  Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
Virtual Reality (VR) for Exercise: The crew donned the experiment hardware and performed a science exercise science. VR for Exercise focuses on the development of a VR environment for biking sessions aboard the ISS. The VR equipment is interfaced with the current bicycle exerciser aboard the space station, the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS), located in the United States Laboratory Module Destiny.
Systems:
Station Support Computer (SSC) 9 and 12 Swap: Today, the crew swapped out the SSC that is located in the SpaceX Crew Dragon Endurance, SSC 12, with SSC 9. SSC 9 was updated with the latest set of procedures this week. This update and swap is completed on a regular basis to ensure that the crew has offline access to all of the most up-to-date procedures in the event of an emergency situation that requires them to shelter in their crew vehicle.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Hard Upper Torso (HUT) Stow and Body Restraint Tether (BRT) Tighten: In preparation for the upcoming RFG Retrieval 2.5 EVA, the crew stowed a HUT following standard maintenance performed yesterday. The crew also performed BRT cable tension adjustments to optimize its stiffness.
Emergency Mask Inspection and Ammonia Cartridge Replace: As part of maintenance completed ahead of new crew arrival, the crew performed inspections of emergency masks. They also replaced expired ammonia cartridges in each mask.
