
Kubik-6 Ebox Exchange:  Kelly unstowed the European Space Agency (ESA) Kubik-6 facility and exchanged the centrifuge and thermal eBoxes in preparation for the Kubik-6 commissioning.  He then performed an activation and checkout of the unit.  Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator / cooler used to study biological samples in a microgravity environment.  It is equipped with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic experiments using seeds, cells, or small animals.  
 
Fluid Shifts Before, During and After Prolonged Space Flight and Their Association with Intracranial Pressure and Visual Impairment (Fluid Shifts):  Kelly and Kornienko continued their Return-45 (R-45) Fluid Shifts session today.  Kelly collected blood samples and placed those and Kornienko’s saliva, blood and urine samples into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is under investigation to support development of preventative measures against a lasting change in vision.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrubs:  Kopra configured EMU suits 3005 and 3008 for loop scrubbing.  Once the scrubbing activity was complete, the associated hardware was reconfigured in order to perform iodination of Ion Filters for both suits.  A sample containing 250 mL of the water was obtained after the loop scrub activity to determine the effectiveness of the filtering.  A small portion of this water sample was utilized for a conductivity test onboard ISS and the remaining water will be sent to the ground for chemical analysis.
 
Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Review:  Peake and Kopra performed a review of DOUG Software in order to study translation and robotics operation paths for the upcoming Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) Extravehicular Activity (EVA), which is scheduled to occur on January 15th.
 
Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) Onboard Training:  Kopra reviewed ECWS operations then practiced EVA Cuff Checklist procedures.
 
EVA Tool Build:  Peake built two separate brush tools in order to assist in cleaning and lubricating threads during the upcoming EVA.
 
Elektron Fault:  Elektron was activated this afternoon, however experienced a fault and shutdown soon after. The crew performed initial troubleshooting steps by inspecting the EDV for the presence of bubbles. The crew confirmed that the EDV was clean with only a few very small bubbles present.  A second attempt to activate Elektron was performed without success.  At the end of the crew day, the crew purged the Elektron and left it deactivated.  Another activation attempt will be performed within the next few days.  Elektron had been deactivated since December 24th for the high beta period.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday, following translation of the Mobile Transporter (MT) to Worksite 2, robotics ground controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to pick up the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power and Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) #2.  Overnight, while capturing the SPDM PDGF, a new Dual Stage Carriage Rates functionality was tested for carriage mechanism motion.  Also, SPDM Latch End Effector (LEE) Diagnostics were performed as well as SPDM Backup Drive Unit (BDU) checkouts required every 180 days.  The MSS was then maneuvered into position to start Robotic Refueling Mission (RRM) Task board #4 (TB4) operations which are being performed this afternoon.
 

