
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Today, the USOS crew continued to gather and configure tools that will be used during Friday’s EVA, which will upgrade Nickel Hydride Channel 3A batteries to Lithium Ion batteries. They also configured two cameras that will be used during the EVA. Finally, the crew reviewed procedures associated with EVA. US EVA #38 is scheduled for Friday, January 6th with Joint Airlock Egress occurring at ~6:15am CST.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday and overnight (GMT 003-004), the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and operated the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body and Arm2 to unstow the Robotic Offset Tool (ROST) from the SPDM Tool Holder Assembly (THA). They then used it to fasten the H1 (secondary) bolt on the Lithium-Ion (Li-Ion) battery in Slot 5 of the 3A Integrated Electronics Assembly (IEA). They also made multiple attempts to fasten the H1 bolt on the Li-Ion battery in Slot 1 of the 3A IEA without success. Finally the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS and the SPDM to a park position and maneuvered SPDM Arm2 as required to allow for an inspection of the ROST using SPDM Camera Light Pan Tilt Unit (PTU) Assembly 1 (CLPA1). There was a Multilateral Anomaly Resolution Team (MART) meeting at 11:00am Central Time (CT) this morning to discuss the issue with fastening the H1 bolt on the Li-Ion battery in slot 1. MSS performance was nominal. 
Body Measures: Today’s Body Measures activity was the second inflight session for the 49S subject. The crew, with assistance from a trained operator, conducted a Body Measures data collection session. The crew configured still cameras and video, then collected the Neutral Body Posture video and stow the equipment. NASA is collecting in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. Still and video imagery is captured and a tape measure is used to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments (chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) from astronauts before, during and after their flight missions.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Zero Robotics Unit Test: The crew configured the SPHERES hardware and an EXPRESS Laptop Computer (ELC) then executed an end-to-end hardware and software test prior to the Zero Robotics competition scheduled for January 27, 2017. The SPHERES Zero Robotics investigation establishes an opportunity for high school students to design research for the ISS. As part of a competition, students write algorithms for the SPHERES satellites to accomplish tasks relevant to future space missions. The algorithms are tested by the SPHERES team and the best designs are selected for the competition to operate the SPHERES satellites on board the ISS.
Fine Motor Skills: The crew performed their weekly Fine Motor Skills tests, performing a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation studies how fine motor skills are effected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of Fine Motor Skills is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.

