
Payloads:
Astrobee Maneuvering by Robotic Manipulator Hopping (Astrobatics): The perching arm attachment was installed onto two Astrobees, and the crew assisted with the Astrobatics science 5 session.  Multiple sessions were performed successfully with either one or two Astrobees attached to a free-floating locker. Astrobatics demonstrates the Astrobee robotic vehicles using robotic manipulators to execute a hopping or self-toss maneuver as the primary mean of propulsion, making it mostly propellantless. Astrobee performs increasingly complex maneuvers between handrails using its perching arm to demonstrate vehicle dynamic modeling and guidance and control of the robot. These maneuvers may be incorporated into future robotic missions and advanced terrestrial robotic applications.
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): Following the final preform exchange and fiber draw attempt, the crew removed the experiment hardware from Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and stowed it. Over the multi-week experiment, the team was able attempt multiple fiber draws under several different conditions. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN.  Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth.  Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
Gaucho Lung: The crew gathered the hardware and set up for the sample 1 experiment session. Due to the fluid not flowing as expected in the tubing, most of the time was used for troubleshooting.  The experiment team believes they have some ideas on how to proceed with subsequent experiment activities. Wicking in Gel-Coated Tubes (Gaucho Lung) studies how mucus linings affect the transport of liquid plug drug treatments through airways. This treatment method must account for the effects of capillary or wicking forces, the characteristics of the mucus, and gravity, and these effects can be isolated in microgravity. Results may support the development of new strategies for administering these treatments and for preventing the contamination of tubing used for liquid flows in the health care and food industries.
Space Health: The experiment hardware was gathered, and the wearable sensor garment was donned to begin a 48-hour data collection session. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: The crew performed a VR Mental Care experiment session. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality (HQ) VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires (via the ESA EveryWear app).
Systems:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) 6-Month Maintenance and Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation: The crew completed six-month routine ARED maintenance tasks including re-torqueing the crank handle socket head cap screw and inspecting the heel raise pin and mechanism. ARED helps the astronauts maintain muscle strength and mass by incorporating adjustable resistance piston-driven vacuum cylinders along with a flywheel system to simulate free-weight exercises in normal gravity.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain and Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew reported that there was still approximately 2 inches of brine in the bottom of the recycle tank. This was due to the EDV not being completely empty prior to starting the drain. A second EDV was attached to the UTS, and the ground commanded the recycle tank to finish draining. The crew then verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations.
Urine Transfer System Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) Flow Measurement Survey and OGS Rack COTS Airflow Sensor (CAS) Install:The crew performed flow measurements of the AAA system to gather a baseline airflow rate. The crew then installed the CAS onto the OGS rack. With the baseline measurement taken prior to install ground teams will be able to use data from the CAS to analyze flow changes in real time.
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Tablet Checkout and Deploy: In preparation for the upcoming Axiom PAM flight, the crew performed a checkout and deployed the tablets that the PAM crew will use during their time on ISS. These tasks were completed to ensure that the science objectives during the PAM mission can be completed efficiently and correctly.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Gambit Transfer: Today, the MSS is transferring the Gambit payload from the NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL) external site D to external site C. This is the first of several transfers that will be completed for the Gambit payload as it performs science operations at each of the NRAL’s external payload sites.
