
Rodent Research-19 (RR-19): The crew completed the Life Science Glovebox Cleaning activity. Mighty Mice in Space: Preclinical Evaluation of a Broad Spectrum Myostatin Inhibitor to Prevent Muscle and Bone Loss Due to Disuse uses rodent models on the ISS to investigate the potential benefits of targeting the myostatin (MSTN) and activin signaling pathways to prevent skeletal muscle and bone loss during spaceflight and on the recovery of muscle and bone following return to Earth. This research could provide valuable preclinical data to support clinical trials for MSTN therapies for a wide range of conditions that affect muscle and bone health. Such research is particularly important for conditions that involve disuse muscle atrophy (muscle wasting due to immobility or lessened activity)—for example, patients recovering from hip fracture surgery, intensive care patients, and the elderly.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): As a continuation of the s-Flame experiment, the crew performed a manifold H2 and CH4 bottle exchanges. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity. 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L): The crew installed the Plant Experiment Unit into the CBEF-L facility. CBEF-L is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
JAXA Mouse Habitat Unit-5 (JAXA MHU-5): The crew gathered items in preparation of the next Mouse Mission experiment and installed the food cartridges (5) to cage units. JAXA Mouse Habitat Unit-5 (MHU-5) examines the effects of partial G on mice using the JAXA-developed mouse habitat cage units (HCU) that can be installed in the newly developed Centrifuge-equipped Biological Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) on the ISS. Stress caused by partial G may alter gene expression in cells of the body. The investigation analyzes any such alterations and their possible effects on development of germ cells, which carry genetic information and expression to subsequent generations. 
Saibo Experiment Rack: The crew disconnected the CO2 gas Umbilical from the Z-panel to allow ground teams to perform a CO2 leak check as part of troubleshooting steps. Saibo Experiment Rack which means “living cell,” includes a Clean Bench glovebox with microscope that isolates the organisms being studied, and Cell Biology Experiment Facility that includes incubator and centrifuges. 
JAXA Colloidal Clusters: The crew inserted the sample container which arrived on SpX-19 into the FROST cold stowage facility. JAXA Colloidal Clusters investigates the mechanism for formation of tetrahedral clusters of negatively and positively charged particles suspended in liquid. These clusters are examined and characterized after return to Earth. The clusters may be useful as building blocks of future photonic, or light-manipulating, materials.
Systems:
SpX-19 Post Mission Operations:  The Dragon vehicle has been recovered after splashdown. All of the splashdown cargo operations are complete and are being transferred by ship.  The recovery ship is expected to arrive at Long Beach, California today.  On-orbit, the ISS crew completed the deactivation on the SpX Dragon CUCU unit.  
X2R18 Database Transition: Following the X2R18 step-up, the POIC flight control team was not able to send commands through the command server. The command servers were cycled after returning to the old activity, which resolved the issue.  Today, the ISS crew completed the X2R18 PCS-Z book Imaging Part 1 activity, however, the remaining X2R18 transition activities are currently deferred while ground teams troubleshoot the root cause for the payloads command server issue.
Resupply Stowage Platform (RSP) Transfer:  The ISS crew completed the transfer of one Resupply Stowage Platform (RSP) form the PMM1D3 location to the Cygnus aisle-way. The RSP was partially disassembled to allow it to fit through the Cygnus hatchway. The crew noted there were no contact issues with the hatch or hatch seal during the transfer procedure.
P6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Today, the ISS crew completed EVA procedure reviews, DOUG review, EVA Tool Config, and participated in an EVA conference to support the P6 Solar Array battery EVAs.  The P6 battery EVA is aimed to upgrade the Solar Array battery from Nickel Hydrogen to the new Li-Ion battery.

