
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  The USOS crew continued preparations for Friday’s EVA by auditing and configuring EVA tools, reviewing EVA Cuff Checklist procedures and participating in a conference with ground specialist.  Additionally, they checked out the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBAs) on Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) suits 3006 and 3008 to verify the glove heaters are functional and helmet cameras are receiving power.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday and overnight (GMT 002-003), Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and operated the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body and Arm2 to remove a Nickel-Hydrogen (NiH2) battery from slot 3 on the 3A Integrated Electronics Assembly (IEA) and temporarily stow it on SPDM Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP) Side 3.  They then removed a Lithium-Ion (Li-Ion) battery from Slot C on the H-II Transfer Vehicle 6 (HTV6) Exposed Pallet (EP) and installed it in Slot 3 of the 3A Integrated Electronics Assembly (IEA), this was the last Li-Ion battery that had to be installed in the 3A IEA.  The team is currently performing operations to drive the slot 1 and slot 5 H1 bolts with the ROST to complete the 3A pre-EVA robotics ops.
Fluid Shifts – Baseline Imaging: The last of the three 49 Soyuz subjects performed their Baseline Imaging measurements with assistance from both onboard operators and ground remote guiders.  Ultrasound imaging was taken of arterial and venous measures of the head and neck, cardiac, ophthalmic and portal vein, and tissue thickness of lower and upper body. Additional measurements using the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), ESA’s Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Device, and Intraocular Pressure (IOP) using the tonometer were taken as well. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA- Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
European Space Agency (ESA) Education Payloads Operations (EPO): The crew reviewed the overview for the three EPO activities which make up the EXo-ISS – CERES, CrISStal and CatalISS.  They also installed the CERES experiment in the Veggie facility, fastening the Seed Support then watering the seeds.  The crew then prepared the CrISStal Salt Bag, dissolving the Seingnette salt then injecting the solution into the experiment bags. Finally, the crew initiated the CatalISS experiment by activating the CatalISS Gelatin Syringe by injecting degassed lemon-lime soda. CERES, is devoted to the study of plant growth; lentil, mustard, and radish seeds were selected having met the required criteria of rapid germination, vertical growth, and resistance to long-term storage. CrISStal, aims to demonstrate the role of gravity in growing crystals, where in microgravity growth is the same in all directions, giving a perfect regular shape of the crystal. The crystal grows in a liquid solution from saturated Rochelle salt. The student designed experiment, CatalISS, aims to prove the influence of gravity on the catalytic reactions. For this purpose, the experiment operates from catalysis of enzymes and gelatin for reaction with a duration of three days.

