
MISSE-10 Materials International Space Station Experiment-10 (MISSE-10): Crewmembers removed the MISSE Sample Container #6 (MSC) and failed Switch Box from the MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT) and packed them for return on SpX-16. Crewmembers also removed the MTT from the JEM Airlock slide table. The MISSE-10 experiment hosts a suite of eight NASA investigations aboard the Materials International Space Station Flight Facility (MISSE-FF). The MISSE-10 mission exposes 188 samples consisting of radiation protection, radiation detection, laminates, coatings, polymetric, high-efficiency low-mass solar cell systems, composites and additively-manufactured materials to the space environment.
Rodent Research-8 (RR-8): Crewmembers prepared the Rodent Animal Transporter and reviewed procedures for Animal transfer. The Rodent Research-8 (RR-8) investigation utilizes mice flown aboard the ISS, and maintained on Earth, to investigate the physiology of aging in response to microgravity and the role of aging in the onset and progression of disease.
Crystallization of LRRK2 Under Microgravity Conditions-2 (CASIS PCG 16): The last set of Sample microscope photography sessions were completed and the CASIS PCG 16 sample cards #12 and 13 were placed into cold stowage completing the CASIS PCG 16 experiment. CASIS PCG 16 evaluates growth of Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) protein crystals in microgravity. LRRK2 is implicated in Parkinson’s disease, but crystals of the protein grown on Earth are too small and compact to study. Detailed analysis of larger, space-grown crystals can define the protein’s exact shape and morphology and help scientists better understand the disease’s pathology.
International Commercial Experiment Cubes (ICE Cubes): Today, a crewmember removed Cube #1 and installed Cube #2 into the ICE Cube facility and inserted the cubes into the TCU tray. The ICE Cubes Facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration or educational objectives.
Micro-14: Today a crewmember activated sample Group Activation Packs (GAP). The Micro-14 (Characterizing the Effects of Spaceflight on the Candida albicans Adaptation Responses) life science research mission will investigate and evaluate the responses of the Candida albicans microorganism to microgravity conditions and, in particular, to assess changes at the physiological, cellular, and molecular level and to characterize virulence factors.
Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Crew Command Panel (CCP) Checkout: In preparation for SpX-16 Dragon vehicle departure, currently planned for January 10, the crew successfully checked out the CUCU and CCP. The CUCU system provides a command and telemetry communications link between the ISS and Dragon vehicle during free flight operations while in close proximity of the ISS.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Saturday, Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) as required to stow SPDM on US LAB Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF). They then commanded the SSRMS to release the SPDM and maneuvered it to grapple Node 2 PDGF. After a base change, the SSRMS released the Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF 3 and maneuvered the SSRMS to a park configuration. Next, Ground Controllers performed Latch End Effector (LEE) checkouts and diagnostics required for the upcoming Dragon release. Finally, they translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 6 to 3.

