ISS On-Orbit Status 01/07/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
&gt;&gt;&gt;Russian Orthodox Christmas.   Eastern Orthodox Church observes Nativity according to the old Julian Calendar.  After World War I, various Orthodox Churches, beginning with the Patriarchate of Constantinople, began to abandon the Julian calendar or Old Calendar, and adopt a form of the Gregorian calendar or New Calendar.  The Julian calendar is at the present time 13 days behind our Gregorian Calendar.&lt;&lt;&lt;
 
S Rodzhestvom Kristovym!
 
 
FE-1 Alexander Kaleri conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Alex will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
CDR Kelly continued his current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 5<sup>th</sup> session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
Scott Kelly also took photography of the current Pro K diet logfile &amp; pH logsheet and transferred the images to the OpsLAN for downlinking.
 
FE-5 Nespoli continued his current Pro K session, for which there is no need for diet; however, intakes are being logged.     [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sampling sessions scheduled (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180), to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day.  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
Nespoli also concluded his second NUTRITION w/Repository/Pro K 24-hr urine collection period, with samples deposited in MELFI.  Additionally, Paolo completed his second NUTRITION / Repository / Pro K generic blood collection, with CDR Kelly assisting with the phlebotomy as operator.  FE-5 then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI.      [The operational products for blood &amp; urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
For her on-going first Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment, Cady Coleman observed the initial 10-min rest period before going about her business, swapping Makita batteries as required.  Midpoint for the entire ICV run was reached at about 7:40am, after which the second 24h data collection period was started.        [The rest period involved relaxing &amp; breathing normally for 10 minutes under quiet, restful conditions.  ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres/BP to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist &amp; ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Cady continued the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing were timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After approximately 24 hrs (today at ~12:00pm), the Cardiopres was temporarily doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).  The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.]
 
CDR Kelly configured the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) toilet for using the internal EDV-U container, and reported the flush counter.
 
Later, Scott Kelly “degassed” a CWC-I (Contingency Water Containers-Iodine, #2035), i.e. to remove any free air bubbles that may have been ingested since its last use.  This has become necessary since the water in the bag is reaching its expiration date and needs to be used.    [The traditional procedure for “degassing” the container by first draining, then refilling it with a fully charged water CWC was replaced in 2004 by a rather ingenious new procedure developed and checked out on the KC-135 aircraft flying zero-G parabolas at JSC/Houston: Essentially, it involves the crewmember himself centrifuging the selected container by holding it away from the body and applying a slow rotation of ~15 rpm to himself, to separate air and water in the bag through centrifugal force, while simultaneously squeezing out the air by cinching down on bungee cords wrapped around the CWC.]
 
In support of the on-going ground-controlled Node-3 MDM (Multiplexer/Demultiplexer) computer software upgrade, Scott closed the Cupola windows.
 
The MDM transition also required Scott to deactivate the WHC temporarily (~35 min.) due to loss of insight to the WHC avionics fan during the N3-2 MDM software upgrade.  The ground also deactivated the OGS (Oxygen Generator System) and re-set the ECLLS (Environment Control &amp; Life Support Systems).
 
Preparatory to the ground’s OGS deactivation, CDR Kelly accessed the OGS Rack and then performed hydrogen purging with the HOPA (Hydrogen Sensor ORU Purge Adapter).
 
Shortly before bedtime, Scott will also turn off the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox).
 
As part of regular ACS (Atmospheric Control System) maintenance, Paolo Nespoli conducted the periodic inspection of hatch seals in the USOS (US Segment), <a name="OLE_LINK54">using a special vacuum cleaner</a> and other tools.     [Inspected were the hatches in COL, US Lab (Fwd, Aft), C/L (Crewlock), Node-1 (Fwd, Port, Aft, Stbd), and Node-3 (Stbd, Nadir).]
 
After adjusting the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) to cover his activities in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) for ground monitoring, FE-5 worked in the forward section on the D1 rack on degassing the water loop of the WPA2 TCS (Water Pump Assembly 2 / Thermal Control System).     [Activities included setting up and connecting the PFA (Portable Fan Assembly) for ventilation, opening a D1 panel, installing the “Hydrocyclone” device on WPA2 and initiating degassing.  After checking Hydrocyclone activity several times during the day for its air bubble removal, the device was deinstalled and returned to stowage.  The deck panel was then re-installed, the work area was closed out and items stowed.] 
 
Also in COL, FE-5 recharged two batteries for the ERB (European Recording Binocular).
 
In the JAXA Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Cady Coleman performed maintenance on the FPEF MI (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility / Marangoni Inside) payload, disconnecting the IPU (Image Processing Unit) user video cables between FPEF and IPU and payload bus cable, then opening up the body and removing the silicone filter hose.
 
Afterwards, Cady removed &amp; replaced the 5 HDs (Hard Disks) of the VRU (Video Recording Unit) with new ones- #1081, #1082, #1083, #1084, #1085    [The replaced VRU disks (#1076, #1077, #1078, #1079, #1080) were put in a Ziploc bag for return to SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center/Tsukuba)].
 
In support of the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment), Scott unstowed the hardware, prepared the MWA (Maintenance Work Area) and secured the gear on the MWA, then powered up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) for real-time viewing by POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) and positioned the HD camcorder.  Scott then conducted VG1 (Vane Gap 1) fluid test runs for ~2 hrs, after which he shut the experiment down again and disassembled the gear.  Paolo assisted as photographer.     [CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  VG is one of three CFE experiments, the others being ICF and CL (Contact Line).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]
 
Later, the CDR performed the regular 30-day inspection of the AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack.     [AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient.  It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.]
 
Kaleri completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
Coleman &amp; Nespoli filled out their weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).      [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
At ~4:00am EST, over an RGS (Russian Groundsite), Sasha Kaleri, Oleg Skripochka &amp; Dima Kondratyev received a VHF phone call with Holiday greetings from the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, Alexei II. 
 
At ~2:20pm, the three crewmembers had their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director for ISS at JSC/MCC-Houston.
 
The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1). 

MDM R3 Software Transition:   MCC-Houston is transitioning four MDMs (Multiplexer / Demultiplexer) computers to new versions of software.  The two S0 truss MDMs are being transitioned to the S0-1 &amp; S0-2 R3 version, the N3-1 MDM to N3Sys1 R3 and the N3-2 MDM to N3Sys2 R4.  During the transitions, which have some unavoidable but temporary impacts, the crew is supporting as needed.
 


