
CBEF-L (Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L): The crew removed the Plant Experiment Unit from the CBEF-L facility and reconfigured the Video output cables for multiple channel ops. CBEF-L is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments. 
JAXA MHU-5 (JAXA Mouse Habitat Unit-5): The crew completed the configuration of the Mouse Habitat Unit for future ops. JAXA Mouse Habitat Unit-5 (MHU-5) examines the effects of partial G on mice using the JAXA-developed mouse habitat cage units (HCU) that can be installed in the newly developed Centrifuge-equipped Biological Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) on the ISS. Stress caused by partial G may alter gene expression in cells of the body. The investigation analyzes any such alterations and their possible effects on development of germ cells, which carry genetic information and expression to subsequent generations. 
Time Perception in Microgravity: The crew performed a Time Perception session In the Columbus Bay 2 module. A program on the laptop induces visual and audio stimuli to measure a subject’s response to spatial and time perception in a microgravity environment. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time is fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination.
Systems: 
X2R18 Software Transition: The ground teams completed the MCC-H server step-up overnight and started on the X2R18 software load to the Command and Control System (CCS).  Today, the ISS crew continued with supporting on-orbit transition to the X2R18 by completing Part 2 of imaging two PCS laptops.
P6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  In preparation for the upcoming P6 Battery EVA, the ISS crew completed multiple preparatory activities including the Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) suit Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) degassing procedure.  Additionally, the crew completed standard checkout procedures for the EVA EMU Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) device along with the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) hardware.  Later in the day, the crew also completed the EMU Li-Ion battery charging activity and installed fresh EMU batteries and Metox canisters into both EMU suits. The crew was also involved in completing an EVA EMU Resize activity along with the EVA Tool Config activity. The first of two planned P6 Li-Ion battery replacement EVAs is scheduled for January 15, 2020.
SpX-19 Post Mission Operations:  All post mission cargo operations are complete with no known issues. All Dragon cargo has been transferred to NASA.

