ISS On-Orbit Status 01/09/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew half-duty day.
 
 Note:  After Wakeup (6:00am EST), the crew always has 1.5 hrs of Postsleep time for Station Morning Inspection, Morning Toilet, and Breakfast.
 
 FE-1 Suraev began the day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator.    [The filters were installed by Maxim on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 Right after Postsleep, CDR Williams, FE-5 Noguchi &amp; FE-6 Creamer completed a Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  A total of 121 RST runs are assigned to Jeff for the duration of his orbital stay.]
 
 The five station residents performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 As part of the house cleaning, Suraev &amp; Kotov conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and also Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).
 
 Additionally, Maxim checked the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter units of the SM’s and FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.
 
 Later, Oleg completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].
 
 The crew performed three VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) programs, starting with the FE-6 who worked with the FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack).    [After configuring the US Lab camcorder to cover activities, Creamer opened the lower and upper FCF (Fluids Combustion Facility) doors, translated the FIR Optics Bench out of the rack and connected all the CVB (Constrained Vapor Bubble) and LMM (Light Microscopy Module) cables except those cables associated with the final power connection to the FIR, then installed the FIR White Light F/O Cables for LMM and rotated the LMM Spindle Bracket Assembly to operate position.  FIR Optics Bench and FCF doors were finally restored to their original position.]
 
 For his own VolSci program, CDR William set up the camcorder for recording video and then conducted the EPO (Educational Program Operations) demo on “Speed/Work/Energy”, discussing speed of the ISS and Earth, work, and energy.  The hardware was then restowed.     [The demos were timed such that EPO ground personnel could provide real-time feedback during the demo.]
 
 For a third VolSci activity, FE-5 Noguchi set up the G1 camcorder for a 3-min science Podcast segment describing the Japanese Marangoni Convection experiments.    [“On Earth, when silicon crystallizes, it is affected by buoyancy convection--the rising and falling of molecules due to their weight.  This movement of molecules causes flaws in the crystals’ structure.  Scientists assumed that in near-weightlessness, where buoyancy convection is greatly reduced, they would see defect-free crystals.  But this is not the case. In space, another kind of convection takes over: Marangoni Flow.  Occurring when there are temperature differences throughout a fluid, Marangoni Flow can look like an invisible spoon stirring a liquid.  This is because energized molecules are ceaselessly being pulled towards the area of high surface tension.  In this Japanese-led experiment that features significant Canadian contribution, we use silicone oil for the liquid bridge and induce Marangoni flow with two disks--one cool, the other hot--on either side of the liquid.  We vary the temperature between 5 and 90 degrees and collect our data through the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility’s 3D, 2D, and thermal imaging cameras.”   Podcast: A series of digital media files (either audio or video) that are released episodically and downloaded through web syndication or on demand.]
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 Later, Williams transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 At ~9:05am, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 At ~10:20am, the two Russian Flight Engineers downlinked PAO TV greetings to TsUP-Moscow for Igor Narimanovich Valiakhmetov, General Director of Izhevsk Radio Manufacturing Plant, to his 60<sup>th</sup> birthday.    [“During our entire flight we are surrounded with the hardware manufactured by Izhevsk Radio Manufacturing Plant.   Among those are telemetry hardware for rocket carrier, automatic docking system, which brought the vehicle to the station. Hardware from Izhevsk Radio Manufacturing Plant in our space home performs monitoring of all parameters.  Dear Igor Narimanovich, our heartfelt wishes to you on this remarkable occasion!  We are wishing you yet more successful and reliable products for space research.  Stay happy and healthy!”]
 
 
