All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 FE-1 Lonchakov performed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP (Harmful Impurities Removal System) by starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated at ~3:50pm EST.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods.  The BMP's regeneration cycle, normally done every 20 days, is currently performed four times more frequently (last time: 12/17-18).] 
 
 FE-2 Magnus completed the final steps of the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) gas loop dryout, followed by moving the USB stick to the SSC7 (Station Support Computer 7), so that the ground could perform a software update before the TOCA priming and run is completed.    [This software update was necessary to turn the P4 sensor in TOCA on during the first replicate, as it has been turned off for this replicate since its launch and needs to be turned back on for further TOCA operations.]
 
 After all TOCA activities had been completed, CDR Fincke began a 1:15h troubleshooting task on the WRS DA (Water Recovery System/Distillation Assembly).
 
 In JAXA's Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Sandy Magnus supported SSIPC/Tsukuba (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center)'s work with the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) in the SAIBO Rack by closing the CO2 supply valve of the CGSE (Common Gas Supply Equipment) after the ground was done.
 
 Fincke turned off the ENose (Electronic Nose) payload, relocated it from its temporary location at a Lab UOP (Utility Outlet Panel) back to its regular place on ER2 (EXPRESS Rack 2) and re-activated it.    [The hardware had been moved to the independently powered site by Magnus on 12/26.  ENose monitors the station's interior for harmful chemicals such as ammonia, mercury, methanol and formaldehyde, running continuously and autonomously.  It is the first instrument aboard ISS which can detect and quantify chemical leaks or spills as they happen.  If successful, ENose might be used in future space missions as part of an automated system to monitor and control astronauts' in-space environments.  The shoebox-sized ENose contains an array of 32 sensors that can identify and quantify several organic and inorganic chemicals, including organic solvents and marker chemicals that signal the start of electrical fires.  The sensors are polymer films that change their electrical conductivity in response to different chemicals, where the pattern of the sensor array's response depends on the particular chemical types present in the air.  The instrument can analyze volatile aerosols and vapors, help monitor cleanup of chemical spills or leaks, and enable more intensive chemical analysis by collecting raw data and streaming it to a computer at JPL's ENose laboratory.  The instrument, weighing less than nine pounds and requiring only 20 watts of power, has a wide range of chemical sensitivity, from fractional parts per million to 10,000 parts per million.  Its data-analysis software can identify and quantify the release of chemicals within 40 minutes of detection.  While ENose will look for 10 chemical types in this six-month experiment, it can be “trained” to detect many others.]
 
 The CDR started the SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight) experiment for himself &amp; the FE-2 for another data take session by downloading older Actiwatch data from the Reader, then initializing the Actiwatches and decabling &amp; stowing the Reader.  Mike &amp; Sandy then donned the Actiwatches.     [To monitor the crewmember's sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the two crewmembers will be wearing the special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days, as part of the crew's discretionary “job jar” task list.]
 
 Mike also performed the regular 30-day inspection of the new AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack.     [The AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient.  It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.  AEDs are generally either held by trained personnel who will attend events or are public access units which can be found in places including corporate and government offices, shopping centers, airports, restaurants, casinos, hotels, sports stadiums, schools and universities, community centers, fitness centers, health clubs and any other location where people may congregate.]
 
 Sandy conducted the periodic flushing of the WHC UT (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment/Urine Tank) with a drink-bag full of non-iodinated water from the PWD.    [This activity is performed every 10 days or so while the toilet is not in use. This will keep the WHC in good working order until it is used in January when KABIN (its privacy enclosure) is installed.]
 
 Later, the FE-2 also completed the daily flushing of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser).   [The PWD had been found, via several microbial analyses by Sandy, to have bacteria growing in the ambient water.  It is suspected that this is due to the water being stagnant and not used.  The crew now performs daily flushes with 100 mL of deionized water.]
 
 In the SM (Service Module), FE-1 Lonchakov had ~80 min set aside to conduct an audit/inventory of AB 800A battery air duct sealing screws and their condition behind panels 226, 227 &amp; 430, along with the condition of the air ducts, supported by documentary photography.
 
 In the FGB, Lonchakov installed a POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter instrument, supported by ground specialist tagup as required, and connected it to the RBS-10/3 power outlet on panel 430.
 
 Sandra Magnus took the periodic O-OHA (on-orbit hearing assessment) test, a 30-min NASA environmental health systems examination to assess the efficacy of acoustic countermeasures, using a special MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop application.   It was Sandy's second O-OHA test.      [The O-OHA audiography test involves minimum audibility measurements for each ear over a wide range of frequencies (0.25-10 kHz) and sound pressure levels, with the crewmembers using individual-specific Prophonics earphones, new Bose ANC headsets (delivered on 30P) and the SLM (sound level meter).  To conduct the testing, the experimenter is supported by special EarQ software on the MEC, featuring an up/down-arrow-operated slider for each test frequency that the crewmember moves to the lowest sound pressure level at which the tone can still be heard.  The baseline test is required not later than about Flight Day 14 for each new Expedition and is then generally performed once per month.  Note: There have been temporary hearing deficits documented on some U.S. and Russian crewmembers, all of which recovered to pre-mission levels.] 
 
 CDR Fincke performed a run with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Windows Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool), his second onboard session, by logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) and conducting the psychological evaluation exercise on the laptop-based WinSCAT experiment.   [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.] 
 
 Sandy unstowed and set up the NUTRITION w/Repository hardware for a new session by herself for urine and blood collection.  For her blood draw tomorrow, Sandy's 8-hr fast begins tonight (~7:00pm EST).
 
 For today's VolSci (Voluntary Science) program, Sandy set up the camcorder equipment and then recorded another series of scripted scenes for the VLE-1 (Video Lesson ESA-1) program "An ordinary meal".   [Based on an uplinked storyboard, Sandy was to film Mike in various scenes on the theme “A Celebration Meal” in the SM, Node-1 &amp; Node-2, highlighting the importance of communal and celebratory eating, particularly in space where it provides a key opportunity for communication between crew members.  It also is to describe where the food is stored on board the ISS and the differences between American and Russian food.  The clips are intended to provide 16-18 years old European students with selected aspects of life on board the ISS, focusing on the social and cultural value of food and the research on plant growing in a microgravity environment. The footage will help to directly compare and contrast food on Earth and in Space.]
 
 Yuri terminated charging of the “Kelvin-Video” batteries, initiated yesterday, and started it on the TTM-2 batteries.  He also checked out the equipment for another run of the Russian KPT-2 science payload BAR-RM.    [Objective of the payload is to experiment with ISS leak detection based on environmental data anomalies (temperature, humidity, and ultrasound emissions) at leak locations.  The payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss anemometer/thermometer (TTM-2), an ultrasound analyzer (AU-01), and a leak detector (UT2-03) to determine physical background signs of loss of ISS pressure integrity which could be indicative of leaks in the working compartments of the station.  Measurements are taken in specific zones (13 in SM PkhO and 4 in DC1), both with lights &amp; fans turned on and off.]
 
 The FE-1 completed the routine daily servicing of the SM's SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]
 
 Lonchakov also performed the regular daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance task by updating/editing the IMS standard “delta file” including stowage locations for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 The station residents conducted their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1), IRED/Interim Resistive Exercise Device (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 WRM Update:   An updated WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked yesterday for the crew's reference, updated with the latest water audit.    [The new card (18-0006I) lists 40 CWCs (~1,243.7 L total) for the four types of water identified on board: technical water (660.6 L, for Elektron electrolysis, not usable before further analysis since these bags were filled from WPA or sampled on ULF2), potable water (530.4 L, incl. 174.6 L currently off-limit because of Wautersia bacteria), condensate water (0.0 L), waste/EMU dump and other (46.7 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observations) photo targets uplinked for today were Mozambique, Africa (weather was predicted to be partly cloudy during this early morning overpass.  The southern Mozambique area is in the initial stages of development for petroleum extraction infrastructure, and urban development is expected to follow.  Baseline imagery of the current landscape is therefore vital to tracking ecosystem and geomorphic change due to urbanization.  Overlapping, nadir-viewing frames taken along track were requested), and Heard Island, S. Indian Ocean (a break in cloud cover was predicted over Heard Island.  Looking to the right of track for the island; CEO is particularly interested in imagery of the central volcano Mawson Peak.  Large ice rafts or icebergs may also have been visible to the south of Heard Island).
 
 CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website:
 <a href="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov">http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov</a>  &lt;<a href="http://">http://</a>eol.jsc.nasa.gov/&gt;  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).
 
 
