
Capillary Flow Experiments-2 (CFE-2):  Virts reviewed CFE Vane Gap test operations and crew procedures.  He then completed the setup, which includes retrieving CFE hardware, preparing the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) work surface only, securing the CFE hardware on the MWA, and positioning the HD Camcorder. He prepared a CFE-2 Vane Gap vessel for testing by partially disassembling the vessel. Selected perforations were drained and dried and the vessel re-assembled using the MWA. The Capillary Flow Experiment-2 furthers research on wetting, which is a liquid’s ability to spread across a surface, and its impact over large length scales in strange container shapes in microgravity environments. This work will improve our capabilities to quickly and accurately predict how related processes occur, and allow us to design better systems to process liquids aboard spacecraft (i.e., liquid fuel tanks, thermals fluids, and water processing for life support).
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV) Adapter Plate Installation and Cargo Operations:  Wilmore and Cristoforetti installed adapter plates on several ATV rack fronts.  These plates ensure that cargo bags stowed within the racks will not shift during ATV post-departure operations.  In addition, cargo bags can be strapped to the adapter plates allowing for additional cargo to be stowed outside the rack volume.  Two adapter plates will be temporarily stowed for later installation on two locations that require access just prior to hatch closure.
Acoustic Dosimeter Data Download:  Acoustic dosimeter collection sessions have been performed this week using 2 dosimeters.  During the week, each of the crewmembers wore a dosimeter for a 24 hour collection session.  Following the last crew worn session, the dosimeters were deployed in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Pressurized Module (JPM) starboard end cone closeout panel and in the Node 3 near the treadmill for 24 hours.  Today, Cristoforetti retrieved the two dosimeters and downloaded the data from all the sessions to a Station Support Computer (SSC) and then stowed the dosimeters.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fault:  Following the changeout of the Pressure Control Pump Assembly (PCPA) yesterday, the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) was configured for UPA processing and two successful process cycles have been completed. 

