
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
BioNutrients-1: The crew hydrated and mixed the production packs, beginning the 48-hr experiment session. BioNutrients demonstrates a technology that enables on-demand production of human nutrients during long-duration space missions. The process uses engineered microbes, like yeast, to generate carotenoids from an edible media to supplement potential vitamin losses from food that is stored for very long periods. Specially designed storage/growth packets are intermittently activated by astronauts over a five-year period, then frozen and returned to Earth for examination.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): In support if the CIPHER suite of experiments, the crew performed a series of ultrasound scans with assistance from the ground team. The various experiments under the CIPHER umbrella aim to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light end-of-day assessment was performed. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system, to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (CIR/SoFIE):  The crew replaced the 30% O2/70% N2 manifold bottle with a new bottle containing the same gas mixture.  This was performed in support of the ongoing SoFIE Growth and Extinction Limit (SoFIE-GEL) experiment series.  SoFIE-GEL studies burning in microgravity, measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. Results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques, improving crew safety in future space facilities.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The crew gained access to the MSG work volume and performed an exchange of the sample preform and spool. The preform is a rod of raw ZBLAN material from which the fiber is drawn. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN.  Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth.  Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
Plant Habitat-06: Water was injected into the distribution system to support the ongoing experiment session. Today marks day three of the 20-day experiment run. Plants on Earth and in space must defend themselves from diseases. Effect of Spaceflight and Simulated Microgravity on Plant Defense Responses (Plant Habitat-06) investigates the physiological and genetic responses to defense activation and immune system function in tomatoes during spaceflight. Genetic sequencing and analyses indicate the adaptive response of plants rather than the initial defensive response. A better understanding of how microgravity affects plant immune function is needed to support plant growth and food production on future space missions.
Systems:
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) Logistics Reader SD Card Swap: The crew swapped SD Cards on unresponsive RFID readers to restore functionality. RFID is one of the many tools that the crew and ground teams use to help organize, manage, and locate stowed hardware necessary for the successful completion of the ISS mission.
ACY Insert Audit and Node 2 Cleanup: Today, the crew performed an audit of the ACY Insert inventory on ISS. These audits are completed on a quarterly basis and afford ground teams a better understanding of crew usage rates. This allows for more accurate vehicle manifesting which reduces the risk of flying too much or too little. Following the audit the crew cleaned up Node 2, consolidating bags to reduce stowage footprint.
