ISS On-Orbit Status 01/05/12
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 After wakeup, FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
 For his on-going first Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Alternate experiment, FE-5 Kuipers reached the initial rest period at ~1:05am EST for 10 minutes of quiet, restful conditions before going about his business.  Midpoint was reached at about 8:55am, after which André began the second 24h data collection period. Earlier, after wakeup, FE-5 had swapped Makita batteries for the Cardiopres and again ~3 hrs later.   [For the second 24 hr period, the Cardiopres was temporarily doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours. After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink. The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).   Note: The crew experienced problems with the new Cardiopres unit launched on Soyuz 29S which was to be used to support blood pressure measurements for the ICV experiment. After some real-time troubleshooting, crew was instructed to remove the hardware for the remainder of this experiment session.]
 
 FE-6 Pettit closed out the SSHDTV (Super Sensitive High-Definition Television) activities by disconnecting cables between the SSHDTV converter and two A31p 120VDC power supplies.       [In the past, SSHDTV has taken Earth views with different optical filters from the Node-3 Cupola, including stunning aurora recordings.]
 
 Next, Don conducted his first session with the U.S. HMS VIS (Health Maintenance Systems / Visual Acuity) testing program which uses an eye chart for both far &amp; near visual acuity and an eye questionnaire (DCT/Data Collection Tool), to be filled out with test data and downloaded on a laptop for ground access.
 
 CDR Burbank &amp; FE-6 Pettit spent most of their work day with remaining EPIC (Enhanced Processor &amp; Integrated Communications) transition activities, today upgrading the last 2 MDMs (Multiplexer / Demultiplexer) computers with the EPIC card and supporting the upgrade by the ground of associated PCSs (Portable Computer System) laptops with patches.       [In the Lab, GNC-1 (Guidance, Navigation &amp; Control 1) and C&amp;C-3 (Command &amp; Control 3) MDMs were upgraded with the new EPIC card.  Afterwards, GNC-1 was left in Backup and C&amp;C 3 MDM in Standby, with the station now no longer one GNC MDM failure away from a Loss of ISS Attitude Control.  Next, Non-EPIC PCS laptops were connected on MCC-H Go, including return of the temp stowed Non-EPIC PCS laptops to the A/L (Airlock) and Node-3 and their connecting for receiving their EPIC patches.  When finished, there is an extra patch that will be deployed on all PCSs to complete the transition.]
 
 FE-4 Kononenko supported the current experiment with the Russian/German KPT-21 Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall/PK-3+) payload, activated in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, by first checking the hermeticity of the evacuated EB vacuum chamber after wakeup and before bedtime (any pressure increase above the vacuum should stay within 5 mmHg). Then, after configuring the STTS comm system for working in MRM2, Oleg set up and initiated the KPT-21 experiment in semi-automatic mode. Later, the system was disconnected, results downloaded &amp; downlinked and PK-3 deactivated.  STTS was reconfigured to nominal. [Main objective of PK-3 today was to find conditions for heterogeneous crystallization of 1.55 micron particles in the absence of a low-frequency AC (alternating current) field, at argon pressures of 10 &amp; 15 Pa (Pascal) and variable power of HF generator (RF SP = 400, 1000).]
 
 With its KPT-2 Piren pyro-endoscope battery recharged in the morning, Anton Shkaplerov &amp; Anatoly Ivanishin spent another ~2 hrs with the KPT-2 payload with its BAR science instruments suite, repeating an earlier (12/22/11) check of micro conditions of the SM surface in areas with identified signs of microflora growth on the pressurized shell surface and measuring local temperatures with the Piren-V.  Kononenko took documentary video for Russian television.  At sleeptime, FE-1 sets up the Piren-B battery for recharge. [Problem area monitoring is necessary to predict shell micro-destruction rate and to develop measures to extend station life. Data were copied to the RSE1 laptop for downlink to Earth via OCA, with photographs, and the activities were supported by ground specialist tagup as required. Objective of the Russian KPT-2/BARscience payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night). Piren-V is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization. Besides KPT-2 Piren-V, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times. Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
 André Kuipers conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies. Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes. [WRM Update: A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.   [The current card (29-0008D) lists 30 CWCs (450.4 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (5 CWCs with 179.5 L, for Elektron electrolysis, all containing Wautersia bacteria; 2. Condensate water (3 CWCs with 19.1 L), 8 empty bags; 3. Iodinated CWCs with 186.4 L; also 2 expired bags with 38.8 L); 4. Waste water (1 bag with 6.4 L EMU waste water); and 5. Special fluid (1 CWC with 20.2 L, hose/pump flush). Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents. Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources. These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 André also filled out his 2nd weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer). [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software. Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins. The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health. Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 Oleg Kononenko conducted another 30-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the Central-Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.
 
 André Kuipers used the CSA-O2 (Compound Specific Analyzer-O2) units (#1043, #1048) to take oxygen partial pressure readings in the SM and COL.
 
 Depending on André’s readings, on TsUP Go Kononenko was to refresh ISS cabin atmosphere with another O2 represses from Progress 45P SRPK tankage.
 
 Don Pettit took the (approx.) monthly O-OHA (On-Orbit Hearing Assessment) test, his first, a 30-min NASA environmental health systems examination to assess the efficacy of acoustic countermeasures, using a special software application on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop. [The O-OHA audiography test involves minimum audibility measurements for each ear over a wide range of frequencies (0.25-10 kHz) and sound pressure levels, with the crewmembers using individual-specific Prophonics earphones, new Bose ANC headsets (delivered on 30P) and the SLM (sound level meter). To conduct the testing, the experimenter is supported by special EarQ software on the MEC, featuring an up/down-arrow-operated slider for each test frequency that the crewmember moves to the lowest sound pressure level at which the tone can still be heard. The baseline test is required not later than about Flight Day 14 for each new Expedition and is then generally performed once per month. Note: There has been temporary hearing deficits documented on some U.S. and Russian crewmembers, all of which recovered to pre-mission levels.]
 
 In the JAXA Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Pettit performed repair on the door of the CBEF IU MG (Cell Biology Experiment Facility Incubation Unit for Micro-G) by attaching a protector over the ventilation valve.     [Crew downlink: “Done per procedure; made sure no interference when door was closed; stowed tape and Velcro back where came; images in photos downlink folder in folder for JAXA.”]
 
 FE-5 Kuipers transferred urine manually from an EDV-U (#980) into the UPA WSTA (Urine Processor Assembly Waste Storage Tank Assembly) for checking out the ARFTA (Advanced Recycle Tank Assembly) in order to help mitigate any unknown quantities of fluid being put in or taken out of the Recycle Tanks during the fill period.       [This manual procedure is used only during Recycle Tank checkouts.]
 
 Later, André reconfigured the WRS (Water Recovery System) ARFTA by disconnecting the QD (quick disconnect) depress hose along with the tank’s vent adapter.
 
 Anton executed the periodic data dump from the BRI (SSR/Smart Switch Router) control log to the RSS1 laptop for downlink to the ground via OCA.
 
 Kononenko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of theKTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV,KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 Afterwards, Oleg also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Shortly before bedtime, Oleg will initiate recharging the batteries for the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) hardware for another run tomorrow. [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere].
 
 FE-2 Ivanishin had another ~1.5 hrs set aside for loading &amp; stowing throw-away cargo on the 45P resupply ship, slated for atmospheric reentry and destruction on 1/24.
 
 Anatoly also continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, today cleaning the numerous Group A ventilator fans &amp; grilles in the SM, after photographing all fan screens for ground inspection.
 
 At ~9:45am, André Kuipers supported a PAO TV downlink, responding to two interviews with Dutch broadcasters, NOS and RTL, at NOS/RTL Studios in Hilversum, Netherlands, moderated by Jules Grandsire from ESA. 
 
 Before Presleep, the CDR will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).
 
 The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for FE-1, FE-2 &amp; FE-4 for today suggested more preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were B.P. Structure, Impact Crater, Libya (B.P. is an exposed impact crater that is 2 km in diameter and is estimated to be less than 120 million years in age.  Looking left of track for this crater.   Although small, it is somewhat distinctive because of its circular shape.  A local visual cue is an S-bend ridge near the crater), and Mississippi River Delta Region (CEO observers are interested in context views of the Mississippi river delta region.  Noting any coastal changes in terms of vegetative or shorelines changes.  Also noting sediment output from the delta.  Looking left of track and take a mapping pass of the delta region).
 
 
