
Payloads:
BioNutrients-2: BioNutrients-2 Production Bags was removed from SABL and placed into cold stowage MELFI-3. BioNutrients demonstrates a technology that enables on-demand production of human nutrients during long-duration space missions. The process uses engineered microbes, like yeast, to generate carotenoids from an edible media to supplement potential vitamin losses from food that is stored for very long periods. Specially designed storage/growth packets are intermittently activated by astronauts over a five-year period, then frozen and returned to Earth for examination.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-24 (J-SSOD-24): Photographs were taken of the satellite deployments. Satellites are deployed. J-SSOD is a mechanism for deploying small satellites. It is designed in accordance with CubeSat design specification (10cm×10cm×10cm). The satellites installed in J-SSOD are transferred from the Japanese Experiment Module Kibo’s airlock to space and are released on orbit. J-SSOD is composed of the Satellite Install Cases, Separation Mechanism, and Electrical Box.
Micro Monitor: Two ambient water samples (100 ml and 250 ml) were collected from the Portable Water Dispenser (PWD) for post-flight analysis. Development of the On-board Monitoring System for Microorganisms in Potable Water on Manned Spacecraft (Micro Monitor) examines a high-performance, real-time system for monitoring spacecraft water systems. It uses an ultraviolet light and a fluorescence detector to measure microbes in the space station’s potable water and compares results with conventional cultivation methods. This monitoring system could be used on future deep space exploration missions. 
NanoRacks Science Box: NanoRacks Science Box was removed from EXPRESS Rack 4 Locker 5.  NanoRacks-Black (Science) Box is a key part of NanoRacks’ next generation ISS platforms. This new platform is specially designed to provide near-launch payload turnover of autonomous payloads while providing advanced science capabilities for customers, including the use of robotics, new automated MixStix, and NanoLab-style research. Black (Science) Box is a locker-sized platform that accommodates up to 18U of payloads. Technology Demonstrations on OA-5 NanoRacks-Black (Science) Box include NanoRacks-Valley Christian-Microsoft IoT NanoLab, NanoRacks-Edge of Space-Sphero-SPRK, and NanoRacks Automated MixStix.
Veg-05: Plants were checked, watered if necessary, and any detached tomatoes were collected and weighed. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
Columbus Local Area Network (LAN) Switch (CLSW1) MkII and Patch Panel Installation: Today the crew replaced the CLSW1 MkI with the new CLSW1 MkII and installed relevant Patch Panels in the Starboard Endcone Area. The LAN provides the data interconnections of the Data Management System (DMS) nodes. This supports systems, subsystems, and payloads for communication in the Columbus module.
Dragon Zenith Docking System Hatch Seal Inspection & Cleaning: The crew inspected and cleaned the Dragon Docking System Forward Hatch prior to departure to ensure successful Forward Hatch closure and seal as well as avoid liberated Foreign Object Debris (FOD) compromising International Docking Adaptor (IDA) seal surface during undock. SpX-26 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until January 9th before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) R&R: Ground teams continued R&R operations from yesterday by removing the spare RPCM from the S12B_C slot and installing it into the S11A_A slot. Following this task, the failed RPCM previously in S11A_A was removed from its temporary stowed location at S14B_H and transferred to S12B_C. The S11A_A RPCM failure occurred on December 9th and caused power to be removed from the S1 Lower Outboard External Television Group ((ETVCG). The RPCM is the workhorse of the secondary power distribution system, containing solid-state or electromechanical switches, known as Remote Power Controllers (RPC). RPCs can be remotely commanded to control the flow of power through the distribution network and to the users.
