
Amyloid: Today the crew retrieved the final set of Amyloid samples from the measurement experiment unit on the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and placed them in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) where they will remain until they are returned on SpaceX-13. Amyloid fibrils prepared in the microgravity environment of the ISS are returned to Earth for analysis through Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and electron microscopy. Amyloid fibrils are the peptide or protein aggregates known to be associated with various diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease and diabetes.  It is expected that this study will provide additional insight into the mechanism of amyloid fibril formation. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  A 52S crewmember collected surface and air samples to characterize the different types of microbial locations on the ISS. The samples were placed inside a MELFI in support of the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation.  MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1 year period.  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time. 
Circadian Rhythms: The 53S subject removed and stowed the Double Sensors and Thermolab Unit equipment that was used to complete a 36-hour Circadian Rhythms session that began on Wednesday. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Repository): A 52S subject conducted his Flight Day (FD) 120 blood sample collections to support the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in MELFI.

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. 

At Home in Space:  A 53S crewmember completed an At Home in Space questionnaire this morning. This Canadian Space Agency experiment assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the spacecraft by creating a home in space. At Home in Space uses a questionnaire to investigate individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Igniter Tip Alignment for Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) Operations: To properly align the ACME igniter tip with the ACME coflow burner, the crew removed the chamber insert from the CIR combustion chamber and restrained it to the maintenance work area, before aligning the igniter tip to the coflow burner. The crew then reinstalled and connected the chamber insert into the CIR combustion chamber.  The ACME investigation is a set of five independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the CIR. ACME’s primary goal is to improved fuel efficiency and reduced pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth. Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Transparent Alloys Cartridge Installation: After the installation of the cartridge into the Transparent Alloys hardware in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), there was poor contact between the Transparent Alloys hardware and the cold plate in the MSG that resulted in the inability to properly control the heating of the cartridge. Ground teams are working a plan to resolve this configuration issue.  The experiment run for this investigation will be deferred until after the configuration is corrected next week and then will run for a month. The aim of this experiment is to study the morphological instabilities of directional solidified, transparent binary eutectic alloys under purely diffusive conditions. It is planned to observe real-time the dynamics of eutectic front structures with a micron-scale resolution, over a large (centimetric) space scale, and over long periods of time. Such observations would be strongly sensitive to convective motions in the liquid, which, in ordinary conditions on earth, entail a detrimental redistribution of the solute on a scale comparable to the container size. Such convective motions are suppressed in microgravity. The specific goals of the experiment is: to study the formation and the relaxation of topological defects in rod-like structures, to study the rod-to-lamellar transition of eutectic growth patterns, to study the forcing effects of the distortions of the thermal gradient.
Space Headaches:  The crew completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
ZBook Transitions:  Today the crew finished the transition of laptops in the Russian segment from the T61P model to the newer ZBook model.
Cargo operations:  Today, the crew continued working to pack cargo into the SpX-13 Dragon capsule for return to Earth.  Hatch closure is planned for January 12th.

