ISS On-Orbit Status 01/03/12
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 After wakeup, FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
 FE-6 Pettit had Day 4 of his first Pro K session, with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.
 
 CDR Burbank completed his 11th post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol. [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
 FE-4 Kononenko tended the current experiment with the Russian/German KPT-21 Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall/PK-3+) payload, running in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, by checking the hermeticity of *the evacuated EB vacuum chamber after wakeup and before bedtime (any pressure increase above the vacuum should stay within 5 mmHg). After configuring the STTS comm system for working in MRM2, Oleg set up and initiated the KPT-21 experiment in manual mode while explaining it for the video being recorded by Ivanishin. Later, the system was disconnected, results downloaded &amp; downlinked and PK-3 deactivated. [Main objective of PK-3 is to study wave propagation and dispersion ratio in a dust plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber, at a specified power of HF discharge, pressure, and a varied number of particles.]
 
 For Dan Burbank, it was another EPIC day.  The CDR upgraded the GNC-2 MDM (Guidance, Navigation &amp; Control 2 Multiplexer/Demultiplexer) with its new EPIC (Enhanced Processor &amp; Integrated Communications) card.       [After power-up of GNC-2 by the ground, it was to be transitioned to Primary, while GNC-1 becomes  Backup (non-EPIC).  The EPIC Unit (EIOCU, also known as the processor card) in the C&amp;C MDMs (3 of them) and GNC MDMs (2 of them) are being replaced in this upgrade with the EPIC version of the processor card. Six cards launched on Progress 43P were loaded with CCS R10 &amp; GNC R9 software; four cards delivered on 29S were loaded with CCSR10 and PEPR10. The new software contains the same functionality as the previous versions; it is just running on a faster, more capable processor card.]
 
 Afterwards, Dan supported the Primary GNC MDM transition, which involved ground-commanded locking of the Port and Starboard SARJs (Solar Alpha Rotary Joints) and thruster firings, by closing the protective shutters of the Lab, Node-3/Cupola &amp; JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) windows.
 
 Oleg Kononenko took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 Later, Anton used the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware at SM window #9 and the overnight freshly charged FSS photo spectrograph battery, taking pictures of targets along the flight track during a one-hour segment.     [The FSS (Fotospektralnaya sistema) consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module. FSS includes the ME Electronics Module &amp; MRI Image Recording Module.]
 
 Anatoly Ivanishin conducted the routine verification of yesterday’s refreshes of the IUS AntiVirus program on all Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2. [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the recent SSCV4 software update. Before the installation on 8/8 of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1,RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1. On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops. Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily. On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
 Pettit began his first periodic HRF (Human Research Facility) generic 24-hr urine collection period, with samples deposited in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS). Later in the day, Don set up the equipment for the associated blood collection, scheduled tomorrow. [The operational products for blood &amp; urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities. Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated. Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement. Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
 Meanwhile, FE-5 Kuipers unstowed &amp; set up the equipment for his first (FD15) session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring assessment, scheduled tomorrow.  Andre downloaded Don’s data from his Actiwatches and Holter cards as well as the Cardiopres data.  [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session. The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan includes an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise. The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
 In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Kuipers powered up the 28 Volt EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop from LUDP (Left Utility Distribution Panel) and completed installation of the ESA experiment NEUROSPAT (Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration).  Afterwards, Andre undertook his first orbital NEUROSPAT session, assisted by Don Pettit as CMO (Crew Medical Operator) in putting on the EEG (Electroencephalogram) electrode cap and optimizing channel impedance of the electrodes before starting measurements, with Don taking documentary photography. Later, Kuipers stowed the equipment and saved the science data on the hard disks of the EPM MEEMM (Multi-Electrode Electroencephalogram Measurement Module) and the MPL (Multipurpose Laptop). After the data transfer, FE-5 disassembled and stowed the equipment.     [NeuroSpat investigates the ways in which crew members’ three-dimensional visual &amp; space perception is affected by long-duration stays in weightlessness. The Hungarian/Belgian experiment involves two principal experimental tasks: Visual Orientation and Visuomotor Tracking, plus additional, standardized EEG tasks performed as a means of assessing general effects of the space station environment on EEG signals. MEEMM is a subsection of the EPM facility, used for different types of non-invasive brain function investigations. It can also easily be reconfigured to support research in the field of muscle physiology.]
 
 Burbank undertook the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas. The video-based proficiency drill today focused on a review of all topics. At the end, Dan completed a self-assessment questionnaire. Answers were then provided at test conclusion. [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk. To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training). The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]
 
 Anton Shkaplerov conducted a 40-min audit/inventory of 6 kits of the Russian CMS (Countermeasure System), a component of the SKDS GANK-4M suite used for testing the SM cabin air, today looking for traces of CO (Carbon Monoxide), Formaldehyde and Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) . [CMS uses preprogrammed microchips to measure for numerous contaminants such as O-Xylol (1,2-Dimethylbenzol, C8H10), Hydrogen Chloride (HCl), Formaldehyde, Isopropanol, Methanol, Toluene, Mercaptan, Sulphur Dioxide, Hydrogen Cyanide, Phosgene, Ozone, Acetic Acid, Ammonia, Nitrogen Dioxide, Nitrous Oxides, Acetone, Benzene, Carbon Monoxide, etc.]
 
 Afterwards, Anton conducted the regular (weekly) inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).
 
 In the US Lab, Don replaced the failed A31p laptop in ER2 (EXPRESS Rack 2) with a new A31p which he then activated and configured.  
 
 Later, FE-6 loaded the ALTEA (Anomalous Long Term Effects on Astronauts) payload application on the new ER2 laptop for re-activation.     [ALTEA-Shield dosimetry uses the ALTEA (Anomalous Long Term Effects on Astronauts) hardware to survey the radiation environment in the US Lab in 3D. It also measures the effectiveness and shielding properties of several materials with respect to the perception of anomalous Light Flashes.]
 
 Pettit also loaded the GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator) freezer payload application software onto the ELC2 (ER2 Laptop) from a CD.
 
 Oleg had another ~1.5 hrs for continuing cargo unloading &amp; transfers from the Soyuz 29S spacecraft to ISS for stowage, while tracking moves in the IMS database.
 
 FE-4 also completed the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways, a prudent preparation for the imminent doubling of the station crew size. [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO,PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]
 
 Anton worked ~2 hrs on loading trash &amp; excessed equipment on the Progress 45P cargo ship for disposal.
 
 In the MRM1 Rassvet module, Anatoly performed an audit/inventory on three bags containing light units and their power supplies, selecting and pre-packing old SD1-7 units for disposal as per uplinked listing, and restowing remaining spares for future use.
 
 Later, Ivanishin also audited/inventoried Rodnik water/fluid hardware supplies stowed in several kits.
 
 Burbank and Kuipers joined for ~1.5 hrs of Increment 30-to-31 crew handover activity.
 
 Anton &amp; Anatoly had ~1h 50m reserved for more video shooting in support of the Roskosmos Television Studio’s project to prepare a film on onboard life. 
 
 FE-1, FE-2, FE-4 &amp; FE-5 had their regular PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, André at ~7:10am, Anton at ~11:45am, Anatoly at ~12:10pm, Oleg at ~1:25pm EST.
 
 Before Presleep, the CDR will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-4). 
 
 The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for FE-1 &amp; FE-2 for today suggested more preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
 No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 
 Conjunction Alert: Flight controllers continue to track a new conjunction with Object 09617 (DELTA 1 debris). TCA (Time of Closest Approach): 6:53pm EST on 1/4 (Wednesday). Tracking continues.  If a DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) is required, Go/NoGo decision will have to be today at 7:23pm and TIG (Time of Ignition) at 4:35pm EST on 1/4. 
 
 
