All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 FE-1 Lonchakov performed the periodic check of the BRI Smart Switch Router computer and its new Ethernet connection, then downloaded BRI log files from the RSS1 laptop for downlinking to the ground.    [BRI is part of the RS OpsLAN (Russian Segment/Operations Local Area Network), with connections to the three SSC clients, the Ethernet tie-in with the US network, and a network printer in the RS.]
 
 With the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) temporarily out of service, FE-2 Magnus performed the regular periodic US WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling and processing from the RIP (Rack Interface Panel), the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Hot needle and PWD Auxiliary Port with the WMK (Water Microbiology Kit) with MCD (Microbial Capture Device) and CDB (Coliform Detection Bag).    [After the analyses, the usual water reclamation from the sample bags via an absorbing towel (to be dried by airing) and data recording concluded the activities.  WRS sampling &amp; checkouts are being conducted for 90 days, i.e., every 4 days: WRS water hose (TOCA inflight analysis when TOCA is available) &amp; microbial bag sample (inflight bacterial visual enumeration plus archival for return on 15A), every 8 days: an archival water sample (return on 15A), and monthly: a TOCA bag sample from PWD (tested inflight).]
 
 Lonchakov conducted a familiarization tagup with ground specialists on the new Russian experiment OBR-1-3/”Fizika-Otolit”, then performed the experiment, which demonstrates a simulation process for transferring motion effects in microgravity to the human vestibulatory apparatus (inner ear), recorded imagery and closed out the equipment.    [OBRAZOVANIE (Education) is a suite of three educational demonstrations of physics in micro-G, viz., OBR-1-1/”Fizika-LT” (motion), OBR-1-2/”Fizika-Faza” (phase) and OBR-1-3/”Fizika-Otolit”. Otoliths, also called Statoconia, are the minute calciferous granules within the gelatinous statoconic membrane surmounting the acoustic maculae (membrana statoconiorum macularum) in the inner ear, the organ of equilibrium.]
 
 Fincke &amp; Magnus completed the regular monthly session (their second) of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh their CMO (Crew Medical Officer)'s acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The proficiency drills today focused on nosebleed treatment.     [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]
 
 The FE-2 &amp; CDR also conducted the PFE (Periodic Fitness Evaluation) protocol, a monthly 1.5-hr. procedure which checks up on blood pressure and electrocardiogram (ECG) during programmed exercise on the CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation) in the US Lab.  Readings were taken with the BP/ECG (blood pressure/electrocardiograph) and the HRM (heart rate monitor) watch with its radio transmitter.    [First, the CDR assisted as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Afterwards, roles were switched and Sandy became CMO for taking Mike's BP readings for the PFE protocol.  BP/ECG provides automated noninvasive systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements while also monitoring and displaying accurate heart rates on a continual basis at rest and during exercise.] 
 
 With the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) installation in Node-1 put on temporary hold, Mike &amp; Sandy went ahead with the contingency installation of the “traditional” IRED (Interim RED) in Node-2, using detailed instructions uplinked overnight.    [To make room for the IRED installation, Fincke first relocated stowage bags from Node-2 to the US Airlock.  The IRED installation was estimated to take about 90 min for the two crewmembers.]
 
 Sandra performed the periodic battery replacement in the prime CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products, #1045) unit.
 
 The FE-2 also conducted the periodic PCS (Portable Computer System) laptop battery checks and reboots on all active US PCS and on the COL PWS (Portable Work Station) laptop (once/month).
 
 From the BIO-5/RASTENIYA-1 (Plants-1) plant growth payload, Yuri collected about an hour's worth of data for subsequent downlink to Earth.
 
 In the SM, FE-2 Magnus completed the routine daily servicing of the SM's SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]
 
 Yuri Lonchakov worked on the IMS (Inventory Management System) data set of the Progress M-01M/31P cargo ship.  Later, the FE-1 also performed the regular daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance task of updating/editing the IMS standard “delta file” including stowage locations for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Afterwards, Lonchakov completed an inventory/audit of plug-in locations and PPS-16 &amp; PPS-31 power panel outlets.
 
 On the AR MCA (Atmosphere Revitalization/Major Constituent Analyzer) in the Lab, the CDR was to remove &amp; replace the MSA (Mass Spectrometer Assembly), then to hook up a vacuum access jumper retrieved from the OGS (Oxygen Generator System) rack, perform MSA vacuum chamber pump down, disconnect the jumper and restow it.
 
 The station residents are scheduled for their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR, FE-2), TVIS treadmill (FE-1), IRED (CDR, FE-2), and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 At ~3:25am EST, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
 No CEO (Crew Earth Observations) photo target uplinked for today.
 
 CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website:
 <a href="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov">http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov</a>  &lt;<a href="http://">http://</a>eol.jsc.nasa.gov/&gt;  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).
 
 
