
SpaceX-5 Status: Yesterday, SpaceX announced they needed additional time to work the actuator problem and officially moved the next launch attempt to Saturday, January 10th at 3:47am CST with berthing taking place on Monday, January 12th.  As a result of the slip, SpaceX unberth will move to February 10th.   A delta Launch Readiness Review is scheduled to occur tomorrow.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fault:  Yesterday during a UPA process cycle, the UPA experienced a fault.  Ground teams quickly analyzed associated telemetry and isolated the problem to the system’s Pressure Control Pump Assembly (PCPA).  Today, the crew changed out the PCPA and the ground teams are in the process of activating the system.  Meanwhile, the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) is configured to collect urine via internal tank (EDV). 
Haptics-1:  Wilmore set-up Haptics-1 equipment on rack front seat tracks in the Columbus for the execution of experiment protocols in a Vest body mount configuration.  He then performed the seven Haptics-1 experiment protocols and transferred data to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for downlink. After the experiment, the hardware was disassembled and stowed.  The objective of the Haptics-1 experiment is to execute an in-orbit engineering parameter calibration and identification for one joint of an exoskeleton haptic device and to record a set of performance measurements with crew operating force reflective controllers in micro-gravity. For this purpose, a single degree of freedom motor-unit with a handle-bar and a control computer are used to perform a set of identification experiments by astronaut crew.
Synchronized Position Hold Engage and Reorient Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Smartphone:  Cristoforetti reviewed the SPHERES Smartphone procedures and test plan then set up the work area to activate and check out the hardware and ELC (EXPRESS Laptop Computer) before testing begins.  The crew attached one Smartphone to a SPHERES and ran tests using the Smartphone’s vision based navigation to fly the Satellite inside the beacon volume as well as outside the beacon volume to specific points in the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM), Node 2, and US Lab. After the activity concluded, the crew deactivated satellites, checked and removed battery packs, powered off beacons, disconnected the laptop transmitter (LPTx) antenna, and stowed the satellites.  This experiment demonstrates telerobotic operations using SPHERES and smartphone technology, assessing the capability of consumer electronics to perform vision-based navigation with the aim to reduce risk in technology development for a robotic free-flyer.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR):  Virts performed CIR Rack Maintenance today. The activity had the crew remove and replace a CIR Manifold Bottle on one of four manifolds.
 JAXA Clean Bench (Saibo):   Wilmore performed standard maintenance to clean and disinfect the Clean Bench chambers and check the relief valves. Disinfection chamber relief valves must be cleaned and manually depressed every 6 months to prevent valve sticking.   
Lab Window Inspection:  Virts conducted a periodic inspection of the Lab window for contamination and damage. This inspection documents any contamination (smudges, particulates, etc.) or damage (scratches, cracks, etc.) there may be on any of the window pane surfaces. Video and photographs were taken and will be downlinked for ground teams to analyze.

