
Payloads:
BioNutrients-2: BioNutrients-2 Production Bags were hydrated and inspected. BioNutrients demonstrates a technology that enables on-demand production of human nutrients during long-duration space missions. The process uses engineered microbes, like yeast, to generate carotenoids from an edible media to supplement potential vitamin losses from food that is stored for very long periods. Specially-designed storage/growth packets are intermittently activated by astronauts over a five-year period, then frozen and returned to Earth for examination.
GRIP: GRIP science in the seated and supine configurations were completed. The GRIP experiment studies long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements such as oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-24 (J-SSOD-24): J-SSOD-24 deployer hardware was installed on the JEM slide table. J-SSOD provides a novel and safe small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD, including satellite install cases with small satellites, is installed on the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) by crew members, it is passed through the JEM airlock for retrieval, positioning, and deployment by the JEMRMS.
NanoRacks Module-9: NanoRacks Module-9 Mixing Tube assemblies were activated per OPS 4 protocols. NanoRacks Module-9 is a module containing a complement of Mixture Tubes. These Mixture Tubes each contain a separate experiment that can be activated and deactivated while in zero-G. Tubes are a low-cost, high-return science opportunity for students to send experiments to ISS and encompass a wide range of science/disciplines. Mixture Tubes are very popular with middle and high school science programs and have also been used by private companies for research, technical schools, and individual research.
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer Mission-24 (NRCSD-24): NRCSD-24 deployer hardware was removed from the JEM slidetable. NRCSD-24 is an external deployer that is installed in the JEM airlock and robotically placed in the deploy configuration using the JEMRMS. NRCSD-24 will be deploying eight different satellites: DanteSat which is a deorbiting drag sail study; TJREVERB, developed by Thomas Jefferson High school will measure the strength of iridium signals; MARIO is a Macro-Fiber Composite Actuator experiment; NUTSat uses an ADS-B receiver to demonstrate and enhance commercial aviation safety technology; LORIS will provide detailed views of the Nova Scotian peninsula and its surrounding shorelines; ORCASat will demonstrate technology to calibrate optical telescopes; SPORT will study the effects of space weather in the upper atmosphere and its effects on communication; PetitSat will study local plasma density enhancements and buoyancy waves in the 380-420 km altitude.
Pore Formation and Mobility Investigation-Asymmetric Sawtooth and Cavity-Enhanced Nucleation-Driven Transport (PFMI-ASCENT): The A4 PFMI Ampoule was removed from the PFMI Thermal Chamber and the A2 ampoule was installed. PFMI-ASCENT demonstrates a passive cooling system for electronic devices in microgravity using a microstructured surface. When fluids boil over flat heated surfaces in microgravity, vapor bubbles grow larger in size, causing poor heat transfer that can lead to damage of devices. Adding microscopic ratchets on the surface may passively enable mobility of vapor bubbles and prevent this damage.
Veg-05: Plants were checked, watered if necessary, and any detached tomatoes collected were weighed. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
On-orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA) with KUDUwave Software Setup and Test: The crew performed a hearing test using an OOHA Headset and KUDUwave software. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) Cleaning: Today, the crew cleaned the OGA AAA Muffler Filter and Manifold Inlet Screen. Additionally, the inlet components that reside behind the manifold were cleaned. The AAA provides cooling for equipment that is not cooled by cold plates. A fan and noncondensing heat exchanger provide cooling for rack equipment and circulation for operation of the smoke detectors.
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Retractable Equipment Tether (RET) Tether Inspection: The crew inspected tethers for damaged cords on mounted and unmounted RETs. Each RET must be inspected and then placed in a protective bag to isolate the RETs from potential damage until ready for EVA use. The RET has 6 feet of tether cord on a retractable take-up reel.
