
Rodent Research-8 (RR-8): Today crewmembers transferred the Live Animal Return transporter to the SpX-16 Dragon and the Animal Access Unit was cleaned. The Rodent Research-8 (RR-8) investigation utilizes mice flown aboard the ISS, and maintained on Earth, to investigate the physiology of aging in response to microgravity and the role of aging in the onset and progression of disease.
NALCO Biofilms: Today a crewmember terminated the two Group Activation Packs (GAPS) and placed them in to the Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL) facility. NALCO Biofilms (Champion Studies on Microbiologically Influenced Corrosion) examines biofilms on Earth and in space and monitors the rate of corrosion caused by microorganisms, referred to as Microbiologically Influenced Corrosion (MIC).
Micro-14: The Micro-14 Group Activation Packs (GAPS) sample tube #3 was hand cranked terminated for operations session #4 and then all three GAPS were returned to the Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL) facility. The Micro-14 (Characterizing the Effects of Spaceflight on the Candida albicans Adaptation Responses) life science research mission will investigate and evaluate the responses of the Candida albicans microorganism to microgravity conditions and, in particular, to assess changes at the physiological, cellular, and molecular level and to characterize virulence factors.
CASIS PCG 11: A crewmember retrieved the three Handheld High Density Protein Crystal Growth (HDPCG) hardware units containing five cells each and deactivated and stowed them back into cold stowage. Neutron Crystallographic Studies of Human Acetylcholinesterase for the Design of Accelerated Reactivators (CASIS PCG 11) produces acetylcholinesterase crystals, a neurotransmitter enzyme. Crystals grown in microgravity are larger, of higher-quality and can be used for a technique called macromolecular neutron crystallography (MNC) to locate hydrogen atoms in the crystal’s structure.
Perfect Crystals: A crewmember removed one of two Perfect Crystal sample units and packed it for return on SpX-16 Dragon. The remaining unit will stay on board the ISS and return on SpX-18. Growth of Large, Perfect Protein Crystals for Neutron Crystallography (Perfect Crystals) crystallizes human manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD or SOD2) in order to analyze its shape. This sheds light on how the antioxidant protein helps protect the human body from oxidizing radiation and oxides created as a byproduct of metabolism.
SpaceX-16 Cargo Operations: In preparation for Dragon departure planned for January 10, the crew continued to load cargo into the vehicle.  As of this morning, approximately 8 hours of cargo operations remained to be completed.  Final cargo loading is scheduled to occur tomorrow, January 9.

