
MSFO-2 (Made In Space Fiber Optics 2): Today a crewmember removed and stowed the MSFO-2 hardware. The Optical Fiber Production in Microgravity (Made In Space Fiber Optics) investigation demonstrates the merits of manufacturing fiber optic filaments in microgravity. The fiber optic material chosen for this demonstration is Zirconium, Barium, Lanthanum, Aluminum, and Sodium.
STaARS BioScience-4 (Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems): Today a crewmember removed Bioscience-4 experiment containers from the STaARS 1 facility and placed the containers into cold stowage. The STaARS BioScience-4 investigation examines how oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) react to microgravity, specifically the rate at which the cells proliferate and differentiate in the microgravity environment.
Circadian Rhythms: Today a crewmember donned on the Circadian Rhythms hardware as part of flight day 30 measurements. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks.
NanoRacks Platforms: Today a crewmember removed the NanoRacks Modules 75, 76, 78, and 80 from Platform 1 in preparation for return on SpX-16. Module 77 was removed and then reseated into Platform 1 as there have been indications of a bad connection. Module 77 will return on SpX-17. NanoRacks Platforms is a multipurpose research facility on board the ISS. NanoRacks Platforms supports NanoRacks Modules in the CubeSat form factor by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity.
TangoLab-1 (Space Tango MultiLab Locker): Today a crewmember removed cards 1-3 from the TangoLab-1 facility and placed card s/n-002 back into slot 2. Removed cards were packed and prepped for SpX-16 return. Space Tango MultiLab Locker (TangoLab-1) is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing aboard the International ISS.
Rodent Research-8 (RR-8): Today a crewmember replaced all the food bars in the Animal Transporters with clean uncontaminated food bars and also added additional attachment efforts to secure the food bars on the mounted plates. The Rodent Research-8 (RR-8) investigation utilizes mice flown aboard the ISS, and maintained on Earth, to investigate the physiology of aging in response to microgravity and the role of aging in the onset and progression of disease.
Cygnus On-Board Training (OBT): Today the space station crew completed a training session to practice Cygnus (NG-10) emergency response scenarios. The crew regularly completes OBT sessions to refresh their familiarity with the various emergency procedures that may be necessary during off-nominal events onboard ISS. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday evening and this morning, the space station robotics ground controllers performed Material on ISS Experiment (MISSE) Sample Carrier (MSC) transfers from the MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT) to the MISSE Flight Facility (FF). Ground controllers are scheduled to translate the MSS Mobile Transporter (MT) from work site two to work site six overnight tonight.

