
USOS Crew Off Duty:  The USOS Crew was scheduled for an off duty day today and again tomorrow in preparation for upcoming Cygnus operations this weekend.
Orbital 1 Status:  The first X-Class solar flare of 2014 occurred yesterday, January 7th.  As a result, Orbital Sciences has decided to delay their Antares launch to no earlier than January 9th 1210pm CST. High levels of space radiation is forecasted, which exceed margins imposed on the mission.  Cygnus berthing remains scheduled for January 12th with ingress the following day.  An updated space weather forecast is expected later this afternoon.
S1 Lower Outboard Camera (S1LOOB): Overnight, video from the S1LOOB camera degraded to the point where video was lost.  Initial attempts by the flight control team to manipulate the camera were unsuccessful. The team subsequently power cycled the camera four times in order to recover most of the camera’s functionality. The automatic iris control capability was not recovered and required manual control.  The camera is now pre-positioned to support upcoming Cygnus operations. It is one of four possible cameras needed to monitor Cygnus’s trajectory during final approach.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Loss of Communication Troubleshooting:  Troubleshooting was performed today for the FIR Fluid Science Avionics Processor (FSAP) communication issue.  After copying application files to the secondary hard drive, Ground Controllers were able to reconfigure the internal software to boot from the secondary drive.  Communication between the FSAP and the Input-Output Processor (IOP) was reestablished on the secondary drive.  Ground teams then completed a check disk scan of the hard drive which did not show any issues.  A review of the application and log files did not show any evidence of corruption in any of the files. Another attempt to reboot the FSAP from the primary hard drive was performed, however but this time the FSAP booted nominally and was able to establish nominal communication with the IOP and with the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) science package.  All indications showed the primary hard drive is operating nominally.

