
Payloads
Antimicrobial Coatings: The crew touched each coupon on Antimicrobial Coatings placard. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Kubik: Kubik facilities 5 and 6 were deinstalled. Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator or cooler with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic microgravity investigations such as those using seeds, cells, and small animals.
BioAsteroid: The crew deinstalled the BioAsteroid hardware and stowed the Experiment Containers (6) into cold stowage. The BioAsteroid investigation studies how gravity affects the interaction between microbes and rock in a liquid medium with the goal to provide researchers a better understanding of basic physical processes – such as gravity, convection, and mixing – that control the way liquids mix with rocks and microbes. This will inform biomining, use of regolith in life support systems, and other bioprocessing applications involving rocks and regolith.
Micro Monitor: The crew collected a water sample from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) and stowed for return for post-flight analysis. Development of the On-board Monitoring System for Microorganisms in Potable Water on Manned Spacecraft (Micro Monitor) examines a high-performance, real-time system for monitoring spacecraft water systems. It uses an ultraviolet light and a fluorescence detector to measure microbes in the space station’s potable water, and compares results with conventional cultivation methods. This monitoring system could be used on future deep space exploration missions.
Ice Cubes Experiment Cube #6 – Kirara: The crew removed Cube #6 and prepared it for return. The crew also replaced the Solid State Drive (SSD). In the Ice Cubes Experiment Cube #6 – Kirara mission, a 1-Unit (1U)-sized incubator, equipped with a temperature controller, is used to allow protein crystallization to happen in microgravity under a well-maintained temperature inside the cube. This first mission is aimed as an on-orbit validation test for a protein crystallization service as part of future commercial space activities. This first demonstration mission includes proteins for seven different companies and research institutes.
Systems
Collapsible Contingency Urinal (CCU) In-Cabin Demonstration: This demonstration enabled ground personnel to observe fluid dynamics of liquid in the CCU. The crew performed multiple fill and drain cycles with varied rates and methods to analyze performance characteristics. An evaluation of the test was completed following the demonstration.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for the upcoming COL upgrade EVA, the crew performed the following:

Reviewed briefing package, detailed timeline procedure and tool config summary
Reviewed EVA procedures and completed conference with ground teams
IV crew reviewed reminders, emergency briefing and procedures used during EVA prep

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Application Computer (MAC) Commissioning: Yesterday was Day 3 of MAC commissioning for contact ops of the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS).  The MAC commanded a double walk-off and performed the grapples and releases, while ground teams performed the alignment.  The next step in MAC commissioning will be later this year with SSRMS “Look & Move” which will enable MAC to perform the visual alignments to static grapples.

