All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Saturday – rest day for CDR Fincke, FE-1 Lonchakov &amp; FE-2 Magnus.
 
 The crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 At ~9:05am EST, the crewmembers conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 Yuri Lonchakov completed the routine daily servicing of the SM's SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]
 
 At ~5:23am, CDR Fincke powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and conducted, at 5:28am, a ham radio exchange with Technopolis, Mechelen, Antwerpen/Belgium. [Technopolis is a permanent platform for science and technology in Mechelen, Flanders, Belgium. The mission of Technopolis is to bring science and technology to the people, offering permanent and temporary exhibitions, organizing workshops, school activities and other outreach activities for “4-99 years old”: a Science Week and Science Festival, an annual exhibition at the Royal Palace in Brussels and many activities for a variety of organisations (governmental, private and educational). The radio contact with ISS was incorporated in the planning during the Christmas holidays as an extra activity to promote scientific and technical studies to the target group of schoolchildren and students. Questions to Mike were uplinked beforehand. “How long could I live in ISS as a boy of 12 years old, without becoming ill?”; “How is it to make a walk in space?”; “Can you still hear the Big Bang?”; “What do you have to do if you have to do pipi in space?”; “Since when are you an astronaut?”; “Do you recycle your garbage or do you throw it outside?”; “How many days do you stay in the ISS?”; “Are you not afraid to fall to earth when you go outside the ISS?”; “How long do you have to study to become an astronaut?”; “How do you spend your free time in a space station?”]
 
 The station residents conducted their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR, FE-2), TVIS treadmill (FE-1), IRED/Interim Resistive Exercise Device (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 Working from his discretionary “as time permits” task list, FE-1 Lonchakov performed a session of the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program, using the NIKON D2X digital camera to take telephotos.     [Uplinked target zones were the Kerguelen Island Glaciers, Heard Island, the Panama Canal, general views of the Andes on both sides of track, Patagonia Ice Field Glaciers, and the Falkland Current.]
 
 
