
ISS Safety Video Survey: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio captured  video of the ISS interior volume, with which the ground team will assess the current vehicle configuration and identify any areas of concern related to ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, emergency egress paths, access to fire ports, and safety equipment, etc. The Safety Video Survey is performed approximately every 6 months.
Internal Thermal Control Systems (ITCS) Sampling: FE-3 Hopkins has completed nominal sampling from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) ITCS, Node 2 Low Temperature Loop (LTL) and Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL), and Node 3 MTL. He was ahead of the timeline today and performed a LAB ITCS sampling as well, which was originally scheduled for tomorrow.  The preventative maintenance task is performed to determine the Ortho-Phthalaldehyde (OPA) and ammonia levels in the ITCS for each of the modules.
Cardio Ox Investigation:  FE-6 Wakata has attached Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes, and prepared for ultrasonic scanning by marking arteries with assistance from the operator, FE-3 Hopkins. Wakata then performed ultrasound scans on himself with assistance from Hopkins and remote guidance from ground team. This is Wakata’s flight day 60 session and his final on-board session.  Future human space travel missions may increase the risk of oxidative and inflammatory damage primarily from radiation, but also from psychological stress, reduced physical activity, diminished nutritional standards, and exposure to elevated oxygen levels during extravehicular activity. There is evidence that higher levels of oxidative and inflammatory stress and associated damage to blood vessels contribute to cardiovascular disease. The purpose of this study is to measure levels of biomarkers in blood and urine that are affected by oxidative and inflammatory stress before, during, and after long duration spaceflight and relate them to the risk of developing atherosclerosis.
Advanced Biological Research System (ABRS) Deconfiguration: On December 13th the ABRS loop flush to remove air bubbles was not successful on Chamber 2. Wakata powered down the ABRS and configured it for return on a future mission.

