
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The crew gained access to the MSG work volume and performed an exchange of the sample preform and spool. The preform is a rod of raw ZBLAN material from which the fiber is drawn. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN.  Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth. Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
Sleep in Orbit: Following charging of the batteries, the crew donned the experiment hardware and began an overnight recording session. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep in Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-Electroencephalography (EEG) based sleep monitoring.
STEMonstration: A biology themed STEMonstration activity was performed which discussed what a cell is, the parts of the cell, and how they relate to the ISS. STEMonstrations are short 3–5-minute educational videos that use the unique microgravity environment aboard the ISS to demonstrate popular K-12 Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) topics. Each STEMonstration has a corresponding Classroom Connection lesson plan teachers can use in K-12 classrooms to further engage students in STEMonstration topics.
Systems:
ISS Safety Video Survey: A video survey of the ISS was performed for ground analysis. The crew obtained video of the interior volume that allows the ground team to assess the current vehicle configuration and to identify any areas of concern related to ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, emergency egress paths, access to fire ports, and safety equipment. The Safety Video Survey is performed approximately every six months.
On-orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA) with KUDUwave Software Setup and Test: The crew performed a hearing test using an OOHA Headset and KUDUwave software. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.
Russian EDV Inspection: Today, the crew performed a visual inspection of a Russian EDV to determine if its contents can be processed through the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA). Imagery of the Russian EDV was downlinked for ground teams to analyze.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap: The crew reconfigured EMUs on the EMU Don-Doff Assembly (EDDA) for upcoming activities. To perform this activity the crew retrieved bundled EMUs, unbundled EMUs, stowed Lower Torso Assembly (LTA) restraint bag and straps, and swapped EMUs.
Acoustic Monitor Modified Noise Survey: Today, the crew took acoustic measurements in the JPM, the US Lab, and the Russian MLM. Acoustic monitoring is an important part of the noise control process on ISS, providing critical data for trend analysis, noise exposure analysis, validation of acoustic analysis and predictions, and to provide strong evidence for ensuring crew health and safety.
