
Payloads:
BioNutrients-2: BioNutrients-2 Production Bags were hydrated, agitated, and incubated. BioNutrients demonstrates a technology that enables on-demand production of human nutrients during long-duration space missions. The process uses engineered microbes, like yeast, to generate carotenoids from an edible media to supplement potential vitamin losses from food that is stored for very long periods. Specially designed storage/growth packets are intermittently activated by astronauts over a five-year period, then frozen and returned to Earth for examination.
Faraday Research Facility-2: The Faraday facility was removed from the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack and prepared for return. Faraday Research Facility-2 is a multipurpose, standalone research facility that loads into the EXPRESS Racks. EXPRESS Racks provide structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
GRIP: GRIP science in the seated configuration (1 out of 3) was completed. The GRIP experiment studies long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kinds of movements such as oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
NanoRacks Module-51: NanoRacks Module-51 S/N 1005 was observed and photographed as part of Ops-4 protocol. NanoRacks Modules allow experimenters and students to perform extended on-orbit operations using space-proven hardware. Each individual module houses a unique experiment. Anything approved for transport to ISS can be incorporated into a module experiment, representing any field of science.
NanoRacks Module-98-Novel Methods of Antibiotic Discovery in Space (NoMADS): Photos were taken of the NanoRacks Module-98 hardware in a free-floating condition in the Cupola with the lit Earth in the background. The contents were then placed into Cold Stowage for return. NoMADS assesses the effects of space on bacterial communities by identifying mutations and chemical metabolite secretions using a technology called the ichip. This technology makes it possible to process bacteria as well as extract and analyze genetic material to identify individual species and potential differences caused by space exposure.
Particle Vibration: The Particle Vibration Array contents inside Cell Array Stowage Bag were shaken to prevent the particles located inside the fluid containers from sticking to the container walls. Thermovibrationally-driven Particle self-Assembly and Ordering mechanisms in Low grAvity (Particle Vibration) project aims to investigate the self-organization mechanisms of particles in fluids. The outcomes of the project have various implications in the science of materials (development of novel manufacturing techniques) and astrophysics (understanding of the mechanisms responsible for the formation of asteroids and planets).
Veg-05: Plants were checked, watered if necessary, and any detached tomatoes were collected and weighed. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Veggie Monitoring: Crew photographed a crewmember performing Veggie Monitoring Surface Sample Analysis operations. Culture-based Environmental Monitoring of Crop-based Space Food Systems (Veggie Monitoring) collects microbial samples from the surface of the station’s Veggie plant production system in conjunction with quarterly Environmental Health System (EHS) sample collection. Longer exploration missions require space-based systems for growth of plants, and this investigation is expected to help establish requirements to protect these systems, plants, and crew from contamination.
Systems:
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Surface Sampler Kit (SSK) and Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Analysis T + 5: Today the crew visually analyzed media slides and Petri dishes after incubation and sorted for return. These samples will give medical personnel a gauge of microbial growth in the air and on surfaces of ISS. The EHS monitors the atmosphere for gaseous contaminants from nonmetallic materials off-gassing, combustion products, propellants, microbial contaminants from crew members and Station activities, water quality, acoustics, and radiation levels.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The crew set up the recycle tank to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations.
