ISS On-Orbit Status 01/08/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew rest day.
 
 FE-2 Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Oleg will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 CDR Kelly continued his current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 5<sup>th</sup> session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 FE-6 Coleman concluded her first ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity (~7:20am EST).   Data download from all devices to the HRF (Human Research Function) PC1 laptop will be scheduled later.     [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres/BP is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.]
 
 Scott, Oleg, Alex, Dmitri, Paolo &amp; Cady completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 As part of the uborka house cleaning, Sasha, Oleg &amp; Dima conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille and Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM (Service Module).
 
 FE-2 also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), the CDR supported the BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) payload by performing the periodic camera setup status check on the running BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) with Sample 10, without SSC (Station Support Computer).  Later, Scott performed Sample 10 crystal photography.      [The checkup includes image transfer, camera battery and camera/flash position.  It is scheduled daily starting at Initiation+1 day during automated photography. Pictures are being taken automatically of Sample 10 for 14 days (started on 12/30).  Since the ground has not been seeing expected color changes in Sample 10 which would indicate the presence of crystals, the CDR today moved light and camera to different angles to see if this will make the crystals observable and then took photos.]
 
 Scott also turned on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) for downlinking data from his CFE VG1 (Capillary Flow Experiment / Vane Gap 1) session yesterday, while POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center/Huntsville) routed the HRDL (High-Data Rate Line) system.
 
 As a VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) program today, FE-5 Nespoli conducted a work session with the ERB2 (European Recording Binocular).      [Paolo’s activities included: unmounting the ERB2 from the multi-use bracket in EDR (European Drawer Rack), inserting batteries, switching on lights in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Node-2, Lab, Node-3, then taking video, ensuring 15 minutes of footage.]
 
 At ~7:21am EST, Nespoli powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 7:26am conducted a ham radio session with students at Universitа degli studi di Bari “Cittadella Mediterranea della Scienza”, Bari, Italy.
 
 CDR &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Cady at ~9:50am, Scott at ~2:20pm EST.
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 T2 Issue:    Cady ran a special ACO (Activation &amp; Checkout) protocol that was created specifically to test the T2 system to try and see how bad the bumping from misaligned snubber pins may get.  Since some of the T2 snubber pins are misaligned within their respective snubber cups, there was a concern that T2 is not centered properly which can cause bumping within the rack, leading to hardware damage. The protocol included different speed changes when compared to Cady’s normal protocol. 
 
 
