
Vascular Echo: With ground team assistance, a 53S crewmember performed a Vascular Echo protocol, which included scans of his neck, thigh, portal vein, and heart. Following the scanning activity, the subject completed three consecutive blood pressure measurements using the Cardio-lab Holter Arterial blood pressure unit. Vascular Echo examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile, Repository): Today a 52S subject began a 24-hour urine sample collection to support the Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Intracranial Pressure & Visual Impairment (IPVI): A 52S crewmember took both front and side view pictures to check for any facial edema, followed by a conference with ground experts.  The IPVI investigation studies changes to crewmembers’ eyes and optic nerves by analyzing arterial blood pressure and blood flow to the brain before and after spaceflight. This investigation uses non-invasive methods to measure intracranial pressure instead of the more common invasive methods.
Meteor Hard Drive Swap-out with Diffraction Grating Configuration: The crew removed and replaced the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) hard drive and changed the diffraction grating in the Meteor laptop located in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).  The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument with the primary purpose of observing meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. Since the parent comets or asteroids for most of the meteor showers are identified, the study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.  
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS): Using the Red camera, the crew took images of Fitz Roy, Patagonia. EIISS is used to support creation of a series of videos showcasing Earth views taken from space. The videos are taken with cameras on the ISS in 6K hi-resolution and are integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement.
SpaceX (SpX)-13 Dragon Departure: On Saturday at 4:00am CST, the ISS Crew released Dragon utilizing the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). Following Dragon departure, Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position and provided video support of the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) petals closure. Dragon splashed down in the Pacific Ocean on Saturday at 9:38am CST.  Recovery forces then retrieved cargo, including human and animal science samples, biotechnology studies, and physical science and education investigations. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Operations: The crew performed EMU 3004 suit maintenance, which included scrubbing and iodination of EMU and Airlock cooling water loops. A water sample was taken for subsequent conductivity testing in order to determine the effectiveness of the scrubbing.
Hatch Seal Inspection: The crew performed scheduled maintenance to clean the United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) hatch seals in Columbus, Node 2, Airlock, Node 3, Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM), and the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). They will also inspect the sealing surface and hatch handle mechanism for Foreign Object Debris (FOD) or damage. 
Transition to (X2) R16 Software:  As part of the R16 software transition starting today, the crew will install hard drives containing the latest Portable Computer System (PCS) software (R19) onto 5 PCS laptops. Once installed, the ground will load the latest Command and Control software (R16) onto the Command and Control Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM)s. The software transition is expected to be completed on January 18th. 

