
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Circadian Light: The crew performed a Circadian Light start-of-next-day assessment. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
JEM Camera Robot-2: The crew performed JEM Camera Robot 2 manual undocking, powering on, cooling fan check, and manual docking. JEM Internal Ball Camera 2 demonstrates technology for automating video and photos of research activities. Crew time is one of the most valuable resources on the ISS, and many simple, repetitive tasks could be automated. This automation frees up crew time for more important activities.
KEyence Research MIcroscope Testbed (KERMIT): The crew installed a slide into KERMIT in preparation for a ground commanded checkout of the microscope. The KERMIT commercial microscope (model BZ-X800E by Keyence) is an all-in-one fluorescence microscope system available for biological, physical, and material science research. KERMIT is housed in the Material Science Research Rack (MSRR) onboard the space station.
Robotic Arm Repair Satellite (RSat): The crew installed the RSat hardware in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) in preparation for experiment operations, and the ground performed a commanded checkout. RSat demonstrates a small satellite platform to survey and possibly repair larger conventional spacecraft on orbit. The CubeSat has robotic arms fitted with claws and cameras to obtain diagnostic information and is intended to operate in constant contact with a host spacecraft. Results could advance the use of robotic assistance on future space missions.
Space Health: The crew completed the Space Health Questionnaire using the Data Collection tool on any SSC. This is the final day of the 48-hour experiment run. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crewmember daily activities.
Systems:
Lab Air Revitalization System (ARS) Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Mass Spectrometer Circuit Card Reseat: Today, the crew performed maintenance on the ARS MCA that is located in the US Lab. Each circuit card was checked and reseated to ensure they were seated correctly within the MCA. The primary function of the ARS MCA is to analyze atmospheric samples for the percent concentration and partial pressures of oxygen, nitrogen, water, hydrogen, methane, and carbon dioxide. This data is then downlinked to ground teams so that they can monitor the air the crew is breathing.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Crew-7 Crew Dragon Awake Mode Checkout: Today, ground teams configured the Crew-7 Crew Dragon to awake mode to perform system checkouts. These checks are performed on a regular basis to ensure that the vehicle remains healthy and all systems are ready to support the crew.
