
Confined Combustion: The crew continued the experiment, including an ignition of a SIBAL sample with no baffles installed, and two ignitions with the silver baffles installed (3 total ignitions completed today).  The baffles are used to change the airflow path and alter the radiated heat environment around the flame.  This project aims to study flame spread in confined spaces—specifically the interactions between spreading flames and surrounding walls. Flame spread in confined spaces (such as buildings and vehicles) may pose a more serious fire hazard than flame spread in open spaces because of acceleration caused by radiative heat feedback from the surrounding walls and a tunnel flow acceleration effect. However, several aspects of flame spread are difficult to study in normal gravity conditions. Gravity-driven buoyancy flow complicates the fire growth process and prohibits a fundamental understanding of the underlying physics. However, in microgravity, buoyancy is eliminated, allowing scientists to better study the physics of flame spread. 
Food Acceptability survey: The crew completed a Food Acceptability Survey using the Data Collection Tool on an available SSC (Station Support Computer). This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
ISS HAM pass: The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with Sayama Mizutomi Community Center, Sayama, Japan.  Some of the questions included what the most beautiful place on Earth is from the crew’s perspective, if meteor showers can be seen from space, and what the most crucial thing is for astronauts.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units. 
Systems: 
X2R18 Software Transition: Over the weekend and today, the ISS crew and ground team completed the final steps for the on-orbit X2R18A software transition.  The Motion Control System (MCS) is currently on Control Moment Gyros (CMG) Momentum Management Control, however, one issue that is being tracked involves an ISS attitude difference observed between US and RS data. Ground teams are currently investigating this Guidance, Navigation and control (GNC) attitude divergence anomaly. Meanwhile, MCS remains configured to use Russian attitude data and there is no impact to ISS attitude control in the current configuration.
P6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Today, the ISS crew continued preparing for the upcoming P6 channel 4B battery upgrade EVAs by performing an equipment lock prep activity for Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) 3004 and 3008.  Additionally, the crew completed an On-Board Training (OBT) on the EVA robotics as well as performed an on-orbit fit check of the EMU suit, making some minor adjustments to the sizing.  Furthermore, procedure reviews and a procedure conference were also completed by the ISS crew and ground support teams.  The first of two P6 4B channel battery EVAs is planned for January 15, 2020.

