
Bionutrients hardware locate: The crew successfully located a BioNutrients-1 support kit needed for upcoming operations with the investigation.  The experiment uses engineered microbes, like yeast, to generate carotenoids from an edible media.   The carotenoids can be used to supplement potential vitamin losses from food that is stored for very long periods. Specially designed storage/growth packets are intermittently activated by astronauts over a 5-year period, then frozen and returned to Earth for examination.
Standard Measures: The crew performed a saliva sample collection in support of the Standard Measures (SM) investigation.  The aim of the SM investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.
Systems: 
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #62/P6 Battery EVA#3:  Today, EV1 (Jessica Meir) and EV2 (Christina Koch) conducted a 7hr 29min EVA to perform the following tasks in support of the P6 Channel 4B battery transition from Ni-H2 to Li-Ion:

4B worksite prep
Install battery 1 (IEA) on EP Z location
Install battery F (EP) on 4B slot 1 (IEA)
Install battery 2 (IEA) on EP F / AP F (EP) on Slot 2 (IEA) location
Install battery 3 on AP F (slot 2 (IEA))
Install battery E (EP) on slot 3 (IEA)
Install battery 4 (IEA) on EP Y (Get ahead task)
Cleanup

Mobile Servicing System (MSS): Today, Robotic Ground Controllers (ROBO) powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and HTV8 Exposed Pallet (EP8) from the pre-EVA park position to the P6 channel battery EVA position. Once in position, ROBO removed EP8 payload power in preparation for the planned battery and adapter plate swaps. Following EVA battery access on EP, ROBO re-applied EP8 payload power and will maneuver the SSRMS and EP8 to the post-EVA park position later today. The MSS and EP8 will remain the post/pre-EVA park position until the second P6 4B EVA planned for January 20th.

