
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Hardware Reconfiguration: As a continuation of the ongoing CIR reconfiguration for the Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) BRE (Burning Rate Emulator) investigation, the crew replaced the relay optics module in the CIR HiBMS (High Bit depth Multi Spectral) Imaging Package, installed the CIR LLL-UV (Low Light Level Ultraviolet) Imaging Package, and installed the FCF IPSU (Fluids and Combustion Facility Image Processing and Storage Unit).  The BRE experiment is focused on spacecraft fire prevention. More specifically, BRE’s objective is to improve our fundamental understanding of materials flammability and to assess the relevance of existing flammability test methods for low and partial-gravity environments. 
Slingshot configuration: Today the crew performed the data cable and controller installation.  This is part of the setup needed to bring SlingShot to a configuration needed to support ops.  SlingShot is a commercial facility that mounts on the Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (PCBM) over the hatch of a departing Cygnus vehicle just prior to unberth from ISS.  Modular in design, it can hold up to nine Deployers that can launch CubeSats of multiple sizes or host fixed payloads that remain rigidly attached to the vehicle to conduct science while the vehicle is still in orbit.
Vegetable Production Systems (VEGGIE) Light Meter installation: The crew installed the Veggie Light Meter and performed light readings in each Veggie Facility. The Light Meter and Light Sensor will be used to measure ambient ISS lighting conditions in both VEGGIE units. The goal is to take ambient light measurements within the two ISS VEGGIE facilities prior to Veg-04 and Veg-05. Measurements gathered on-orbit will allow the VEGGIE team to further refine the Ground Control Tests by allowing the team to mimic ISS conditions within ground environmental simulators. 
ISS Reboost: Today at 12:01PM CT the ISS performed a nominal 8 minute and 20 seconds reboost using the 71P Aft Rendezvous & Docking Thrusters. This is one of a series of reboosts to set up planned phasing conditions for Soyuz 58S and Progress 72P launch.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Data Recorder (EDaR) and Install:  Today the crew installed the complete EDaR system into EMU 3008. EDaR is a new system that provides real-time data storage from EMU systems and increases the rate in which EMU telemetry is sent to ground controllers.
Crew Quarter (CQ) Screen Installation: The crew replaced the temporary cloth filters in all four CQs exhaust and inlet with permanent screens. The new screens were built by the High school students United with NASA to Create Hardware (HUNCH) program and arrived on ISS on Northrop Grumman (NG)-10.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Collection: As part of regular maintenance, the crew collected ITCS coolant samples from the Node 2, JEM, and Columbus modules yesterday.  These samples will be returned to ground for detailed analysis.

