
Try Zero-Gravity (Try Zero-G) Experiments:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata set up and performed the JAXA Try Zero-G experiments, while video of the activities are recorded with a camcorder.  Try Zero-G allows the public, especially kids, to vote for and suggest physical tasks for JAXA astronauts to perform to demonstrate the difference between zero and one gravity (G) for educational purposes.   Various categories of experiments are performed, including movements in space, spin (rotation), folding clothes, “Magic Carpet”, water pistol, eye drops, propulsion through space, and two-way movement. Video from these experiments will be used to support education resources for educators throughout Japan.
Vaccine-21 Group Activation Packs (GAPs) Second Activation:  FE-5 Mastracchio accessed the Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus-2 (CGBA-2), performed the second activation of all 16 Vaccine-21 GAPs, which is performed 24 hours after the first activation performed yesterday.  He then returned the mixture tubes into the CGBA-2.  This experiment, also referred to as Antibiotic Effectiveness in Space-1 (AES-1), tests the hypothesis that antibiotics used to treat bacterial grown in space will exhibit reduced efficacy and will be associated with specific changes in bacterial gene expression that correlate with cell survival.
NanoRacks Module 9 Investigation:  Wakata activated and shook designated NanoRacks Module 9 mixing tubes today.  He then used the Microscope-2 to perform a microscopic analysis of the mixing tubes.   For this investigation student teams from across the United States designed their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. This investigation is part of the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP), which is sponsored by the commercial Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education program that is overseen by the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE).
ISS Emergency Simulation On-board Training (OBT): All six crewmembers participated in an emergency ammonia leak drill and debrief.  The purpose of this drill was to practice ISS emergency responses based on information provided by a simulator. The crew physically translates through ISS to appropriate locations in order to visualize the use of station equipment and interfaces. They also practiced procedure execution and associated decision making, all while exercising communication skills with MCC-H and MCC-M.
Cygnus Cargo Operation: The USOS crew continued Cygnus cargo operations today. They reported working a combined total of 6 hours.  Later in the day, Hopkins participated in a space to ground conference with MCC-H specialist in order to relay status.  At this point all Cygnus cargo has been unpacked and the crew is proceeding with disposal item loading.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and started maneuvering the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into position to grapple the Functional Cargo Block (FGB) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF).  During the pre-motion survey and the initial SSRMS maneuvers, the Robotics team found a number of items (the Russian Crane (STRELA), cables) that were not modeled correctly in the Robotics Planning System (RPS) tool. A decision was made to stand down from today’s operations until these items are correctly modelled in RPS and the trajectory of the SSRMS to grapple the FGB PDGF has been confirmed as safe.  The final position reached during today’s operations left the SSRMS in a good parked configuration.  The completion of the grapple of the FGB PDGF is expected to take place on Friday, January 17th.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Component Maintenance:  Mastracchio completed annual WHC maintenance to replace urine hydraulic components. No issues were reported. WHC was configured back to the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA), and is go for nominal ops.

