
Bio-monitor commissioning: The crew completed the first part of the Bio-Monitor commissioning activity.  The ground team is still assessing the data from the commissioning and reported an issue with one of the iPad application tests, but reported everything else looks good so far.  The missed iPad application test can be performed during the next commissioning activities in the upcoming weeks.  Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way.  The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, ECG (Electrocardiogram), skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc. 
Fluid Shifts: The crew performed the dilution measures portion of the ongoing Fluid Shifts investigation.  This involves the ingestion of a tracer solution and collection of blood, saliva and urine samples.  Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging with Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure). The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
Transition to (X2) R17 Software Transition: Ground teams continued with the R17 software transition by loading both of the Internal (INT) Multiplexer/Demultiplexers (MDMs) with INTSYS R10 software. The teams will continue to load X2R17 software into the Node 1 and Airlock MDMs tomorrow.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Hydraulic Components R&R: Today, the crew performed periodic maintenance in order to replace the WHC urine valve block, urine lines, urine pressure sensors along with the flush water tank empty pressure sensor.

