
External Thermal Control System (ETCS) Loop B Recovery Status:  Over the weekend, ground teams finished repressurizing and recovering ETCS Loop B and the systems which were deactivated as a result of Wednesday’s safeing response. The Loop B Interface Heat Exchangers (IFHX) have been reintegrated, which allows internal heat rejection on Loop B. 
Cardio Ox: Crew setup and configured ultrasound hardware.  Wilmore, acting as Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and with the help of the Cardio Ox ground team performed the ultrasound scans and blood pressure measurements supporting Cristoforetti’s flight day 60 Cardio Ox session. The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries will be obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health
Drain Brain:  Cristoforetti set up and configured the Pulmonary Function System (PFS) equipment, and performed the Drain Brain protocol self-scans with guidance from the Drain Brain ground team.  On Earth, blood flows down from a person’s brain back toward the heart thanks in part to gravity, but very little is known about how this flow happens without gravity’s effects.  Many crewmembers report headaches and other neurological symptoms in space, which may be related to the absence of gravity acting on blood flowing through the veins. Drain Brain uses a special neck collar to measure blood flow from the brain, to help researchers understand which physical processes in the body can compensate for the lack of gravity to ensure blood flows properly.
Micro-5 Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG):  Virts completed teardown and stowage of the Micro-5 hardware.  This prepared the MSG for accepting the Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixture (CSLM) experiment.
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixtures-4 (CSLM-4):  Virts reviewed the on board training materials prior to hardware gather and set up of the CSLM-4 components in the MSG work volume.  CSLM-4 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount (low volume fraction) of tin branch-like (i.e., dendritic) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature (i.e., isothermal) conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.
Skin-B:  Cristoforetti conducted her fourth Skin-B data collection using the Tewameter probe to measure the skin barrier function; the Visioscan Camera to measure skin surface topography; and the Corneometer probe to measure skin hydration. The Skin-B experiment will improve understanding of skin aging, which is slow on Earth but very much accelerated in space. This will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general. The data could help in determining impact on astronauts on future missions to the Moon and Mars for example where environmental conditions are more challenging.
Extra-vehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3010 & 3011 Loop Scrub:  Wilmore configured EMU Suits 3010 & 3011 for loop scrubbing. The fan in EMU 3011 failed to start up during the activity, and work on that suit was deferred while ground teams develop a forward plan. The work on EMU 3010 was performed nominally.  Once the 3010 suit was configured, Wilmore initiated ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and conducted biocidal maintenance (iodination) on the suit and Airlock cooling water loops.  Samples of the coolant water were obtained before and after the loop scrub activity to determine the effectiveness of the filtering.  A portion of the water sample was utilized for a conductivity test and the remaining water will be sent to the ground for chemical analysis.  Neither EMUs 3010 nor 3011 are planned to be used during the upcoming EVAs.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Right Upper Stop Cable Remove & Replace (R&R):  This morning, Wilmore performed an R&R of the Right Upper Stop Cable on ARED using a degraded spare. The cable being changed out was reported as severed last week.  An additional right upper stop cable spare arrived onboard SpaceX-5.  Today’s change out activity removes load limits for certain ARED exercises that use the upper stops and returns ARED to its typical configuration. 

