
85 Progress (85P) ISS Reboost: The ISS performed a reboost using the SM Aft Progress 85P rendezvous and docking (R&D) thrusters. This was the first of two reboosts to set up conditions for Progress 87P launch in February. The burn duration was approximately 17 minutes with a delta-V of 1.67 m/s.
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. The crew also remounted a coupon that had come loose from the fixture. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The crew continued the sample collections, performed the Cognition test activities, and captured historical photos for CIPHER. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Gaucho Lung: Science activities for today were deferred, and the hardware was stowed to allow the ground team time to update operational products. Previous issues conducting the experiment are understood, and subsequent sessions are expected to be more productive. Wicking in Gel-Coated Tubes (Gaucho Lung) studies how mucus linings affect the transport of liquid plug drug treatments through airways. This treatment method must account for the effects of capillary or wicking forces, the characteristics of the mucus, and gravity, and these effects can be isolated in microgravity. Results may support the development of new strategies for administering these treatments and for preventing the contamination of tubing used for liquid flows in the health care and food industries.
Plant Habitat-06: The crew completed the plant thinning activity, which was deferred one day to allow for additional plant growth. Plants on Earth and in space must defend themselves from diseases. Effect of Spaceflight and Simulated Microgravity on Plant Defense Responses (Plant Habitat-06) investigates the physiological and genetic responses to defense activation and immune system function in tomatoes during spaceflight. Genetic sequencing and analyses indicate the adaptive response of plants rather than the initial defensive response. A better understanding of how microgravity affects plant immune function is needed to support plant growth and food production on future space missions.
Virtual Reality (VR) for Exercise: The experiment hardware was donned, and a science exercise science was performed. VR for Exercise focuses on the development of a VR environment for biking sessions aboard the ISS. The VR equipment is interfaced with the current bicycle exerciser aboard the space station, the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS), located in the United States Laboratory Module Destiny.
Systems:
Station Support Computer (SSC) 9 and 12 Swap: Today, the crew swapped out the SSC that is located in the SpaceX Crew Dragon Endurance, SSC 9, with SSC 12. SSC 12 was updated with the latest set of procedures this week. This update and swap is completed on a regular basis to ensure that the crew has offline access to all of the most up-to-date procedures in the event of an emergency situation that requires them to shelter in their crew vehicle.
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) O2 Repress: Ground teams commanded the installed O2 NORS tank to repress the ISS cabin. This is a nominal activity that is completed once a NORS tank reaches a certain level of gas and in preparation for the connection of an N2 NORS tank in the coming days.
Coliform Water Sample Analysis: The crew completed post-processing analysis of the Coliform detection bags. The water samples were acquired on Monday and allowed to incubate to check for the presence of Coliform bacteria. Following the incubation period, the crew visually analyzed the Coliform detection bags and recorded the results. Visual confirmation must be performed within 40-48 hours of the initial sample collection.
Axiom-3 (Ax-3) Dragon Rendezvous and Motion Control Group Docking On-Orbit Training (OBT): The crew performed a Dragon Rendezvous review of actions required prior to the arrival of Ax-3. The crew also reviewed approach and monitoring tools, as well as Dragon contingency monitoring. The Ax-3 mission is currently scheduled to launch on January 17th with the objective of transporting four Private Astronauts on a SpaceX Crew Dragon to stay onboard the ISS for approximately fourteen days.
