
Confined Combustion: The crew continued the experiment, using a series of fabric (Sibal) samples with either no baffles, shiny/reflective baffles, or clear baffles installed at various distances from the samples.  Sibal fabric is a mixture of fiberglass and cotton which keeps its basic shape as it burns.  Seven total samples/ignitions were completed today.  The baffles are used to change the airflow path and alter the radiated heat environment around the flame.  This project aims to study flame spread in confined spaces—specifically the interactions between spreading flames and surrounding walls. Flame spread in confined spaces (such as buildings and vehicles) may pose a more serious fire hazard than flame spread in open spaces because of acceleration caused by radiative heat feedback from the surrounding walls and a tunnel flow acceleration effect. However, several aspects of flame spread are difficult to study in normal gravity conditions. Gravity-driven buoyancy flow complicates the fire growth process and prohibits a fundamental understanding of the underlying physics. However, in microgravity, buoyancy is eliminated, allowing scientists to better study the physics of flame spread. 
Mouse Mission-5 (MM-5) prep:  As a continuation of the preparation for MM-5, the crew removed the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit from Cell Biology Experiment Facility-Left (CBEF-L) Incubator Unit for Checkout.  JAXA Mouse Habitat Unit-5 (MHU-5) examines the effects of partial G on mice using the JAXA-developed mouse habitat cage units (HCU) that can be installed in the newly developed Centrifuge-equipped Biological Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L) on the ISS. Stress caused by partial G may alter gene expression in cells of the body. The investigation analyzes any such alterations and their possible effects on development of germ cells, which carry genetic information and expression to subsequent generations. 
Standard Measures/Repository:  The crew performed a blood collection in support of the Standard Measures (SM) and Repository investigations.  The aim of the SM investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.  Repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Systems:
P6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Today, the crew continued preparing for tomorrow’s P6 channel 4B battery upgrade EVA #1 by performing their equipment lock preps for Extravehicular Activity Mobility Units (EMU) 3004 and 3008.  This is a continuation of the equipment lock prep started yesterday. The crew also completed their EVA tool audit, and Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) / Robotic Workstation (RWS) setups. Finally, the crew completed their EVA procedure reviews and a participated in a pre-EVA procedure review conference.  The first of the two planned P6 4B channel battery EVAs is set for tomorrow, Wednesday, January 15, 2020. The crew is scheduled to egress the Quest Joint Airlock shortly after 6 am CT.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS): Today, Robotic Ground Controllers (ROBO) powered up the MSS and
un-stowed the HTV8 Exposed Pallet (EP8) from the Payload Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA) facility using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS); currently based off of the Mobil Transporter (MT) Mobil Base Station (MBS) #3. Once EP8 was un-stowed, ROBO executed an MT translation from work site 7 to work site 8. These activities were performed in preparation for tomorrows P6 channel 4B battery upgrade EVA.
Inflight Maintenance Hatch Seal Inspection:  Today, the ISS crew completed a cleaning and inspection of the USOS Hatch Seals, Hatch Plate Sealing Surfaces, and Crank Handle Mechanisms for FOD or damage. 

