
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Today the crew performed final preparation for EMU EVA #39 (Channel 1A Battery R&R). Hatch open is scheduled tomorrow, Friday January 6th at 12:10 GMT (6:10 CST). Earlier today the crew completed the pre-EVA health status exams, final EVA tool configuration and procedure reviews.  Ground specialists and the crewmembers participated in a conference to discuss any final questions.  Finally, the crew prepared the Equipment lock for the EVA. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Robotics Ground Controllers completed all battery moves in preparation for Friday’s EVA. Last night, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body and Arm2 as required to stow the Robotic Offset Tool (ROST) in the SPDM Tool Holder Assembly (THA).  They then maneuvered the SSRMS and SPDM Body and Arm2 as required to remove the Nickel-Hydrogen (NiH2) battery from slot 2 on the 1A Integrated Electronics Assembly (IEA).  Finally the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS and SPDM to a park position.  Currently SPDM is holding three NiH2 batteries (one on each arm plus another on Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform). These batteries will be moved to the EP post-EVA. Due to some issues encountered yesterday with SPDM’s ROST tool, ground teams were unable to secure the H1 bolts on the Li-Ion batteries in slot 1 and 5, so the EV crewmembers will be picking that up as an EVA task, similar to what we did in last week’s EVA.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Laptop Hard Drive Replacement: Today the crew replaced the MSG hard drive and successfully completed the software installation. On GMT 009 the MSG laptop that supports the Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PBRE) lost communication. Over the last few days the crew checked the cables, rebooted the laptop, and reset the hard drive before declaring it failed and replacing the hard drive. The MSG is fully operational and there was no loss of science or data to the PBRE. 

