
Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-6 (J-SSOD6) Removal:  Following the successful deployments on Monday, the crew repressed the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) then extended the Slide Table into the cabin to remove the deployers from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP). The next use of the JEMAL is the High Definition Television External Facility-2 (HDTV-EF2), a high-definition television camera system, which is used for earth observation from the ISS and will be installed on the JEM-EF.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Holder Removal: During the ELF troubleshooting on December 27, the ELF Sample Holder was unable to rotate.  The crew removed then inspected the Sample Holder and inserted a new Sample Cartridge.  The ELF cables were then reconnected and the Sample Holder reinstalled into the Work Volume. Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency’s (JAXA’s) ELF is located in Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR)-2.  Once complete, this cartridge sample will provide science capability for ground teams to evaluate.  The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. 
Fluid Shifts Before, During and After Prolonged Space Flight and Their Association with Intracranial Pressure and Visual Impairment (Fluid Shifts): Two 49S crewmembers performed their final portions of the Flight Day 45 Day (FD45) Fluid Shifts operations in the Russian Service Module (SM). The subject donned the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP/Chibis) device, while the operator, with ground support in Moscow, assisted in the medical monitoring. Additionally, while the subject was in the LBNP and experiencing the negative pressure (pulling the fluid feetward), the Crew Medical Officer performed Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), and Tonometry measurements. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Troubleshooting Part 3: Using the tools assembled yesterday, the crew successfully removed the MDCA from the CIR Combustion Chamber.  The crew repaired the spring fastener that was preventing the removal and reinstalled the MDCA.  Next week the crew will reconfigure the CIR to the Cool Flames Investigation (CFI).  CFI provides new insight into the phenomenon where some types of fuels initially burn very hot, then appear to go out — but they continue burning at a much lower temperature, with no visible flames (cool flames). Understanding cool flame combustion helps scientists develop new engines and fuels that are more efficient and less harmful to the environment.
ARED Sensor Calibration: The crew performed a sensor calibration via the Station Support Computer (SSC) resident software. This activity calibrates the rotational sensors in the main arm and the load sensors for cable exercises to utilize the new ARED software load that was uplinked GMT 014. 
Vacuum Access Port (VAP) Installation Procedure Review: Today, the crew reviewed procedures and gathered hardware to support installation of a VAP in Node 2 from the LAB Vent Relief Valve to provide vacuum access capability for Visiting Vehicles berthed to Node 2 Nadir after PMA3 is relocated to Node 2 Zenith. The installation of the VAP is scheduled for Thursday, GMT 019. The VAP Mod Kit consists of a Vacuum Access Port, Vacuum Hoses, and Vacuum Access Port Adapters to support vacuum through LAB Vent Relief Valve.
Columbus Return Grid Sensor Housing (RGSH) Internal Cleaning: The crew inspected and cleaned the Columbus RGSH, RGSH internal area and the Air Duct Debris Screen installed in the Port Cone. The RGSH was removed to acquire access to the internal sensors and brackets to allow cleaning using Vacuum Cleaner. 
Improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG) Procedure Review: The crew reviewed procedures for installing an iPEHG into Expedite the Processing of Experiments to the Space Station (ExPRESS) Rack-7 (ER-7) on Friday. Following the review, the crew participated in a conference with the ExPRESS Rack Ops Lead to address any questions. The iPEHG is a component of the ISS’s Joint Station Local Area Network (JSL) and provides switched Ethernet full-duplex network data communication between International Standard Payload Racks (ISPR) devices, ExPRESS Rack devices, the JSL Edge Routers (ER), and a fiber optic High Rate Data Link (HRDL) Gateway to the High Rate Communications System (HRCS). 
Solid State Lighting Assembly (SSLA) Installation:  Today, the crew installed SSLAs into the Node 1 Overhead Port and Overhead Starboard locations. This was a Task List activity. The SSLAs were designed to replace General Luminaire Assemblies (GLAs) to improve visual acuity and to provide a crew health countermeasure for circadian rhythms, sleep, alertness and performance. To accomplish these goals, SSLAs are designed to operate in 3 modes with 3 distinct spectrum. The different spectrum provide control of the blue portion of the light which impacts melatonin production in humans which impacts sleep.
CLPA (Camera Light Pan Tilt Assembly) Install on Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS): Last Friday, the CLPA checkout was nominal on the Mobile Transporter Relay Assembly (MTRA), but a trip indication was observed when attempting to power on the light. Teams have resolved the camera can be installed on the SSRMS with the faulty light.  Later this evening, the plan is to inspect the CLPA, inspect the MTRA, perform additional troubleshooting, and install the CLPA on the SSRMS end B. During the inspections, the 72-pin connector will be inspected by the SSRMS camera at close range for damage. If damage is seen to the connector, the CLPA will be reinstalled to the MTRA instead of the SSRMS end B.

