
Payloads:
ECHO: The crew performed maintenance and troubleshooting tasks on the ECHO unit. The purpose of the ECHO investigation is to evaluate a tele-operated ultrasound system, equipped with motorized probes that are controlled by flight controllers on the ground. Additionally, this investigation serves to perform the commissioning of the Echo instrument, which is planned to be used for the Vascular ECHO experiment in the future.
Plant Habitat-06: Solanum Lycopersicum (Tomato) leaves were marked and swabbed with a designated elicitor. The Effect of Spaceflight and Simulated Microgravity on Plant Defense Responses (Plant Habitat-06) experiment investigates the physiological and genetic responses to defense activation and immune system function in tomatoes during spaceflight. Genetic sequencing and analysis indicate that plants exhibit an adaptive defense response rather than the initial defensive response. A better understanding of how microgravity affects plant immune function is needed to support plant growth and food production on future space missions.
Plant Water Management 5 and 6: Plant Water Management 5 hardware was setup for operations and then configured for overnight safing. Providing adequate water and nutrition to plants grown in space is affected by the absence or decreased presence of gravity. Plant Water Management 5 and 6 plan to demonstrate how physical properties of fluids, such as surface tension and wetting, are viable mechanisms to provide hydration and aeration to plants being grown in environments of varying gravity.
Robotic Arm Repair Satellite (RSat): The LAB camcorder was setup in front of the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) work volume prior to RSat operations. The RSat demonstrates how a small satellite platform could survey and repair larger conventional spacecraft on orbit. The CubeSat has robotic arms fitted with claws and cameras to obtain diagnostic information and is intended to operate while in constant contact with a host spacecraft. Results could advance the use of robotic assistance on future space missions.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE): The SoFIE experiment sample, igniter tip and Combustion Integrated Rack – Fluids and Combustion (CIR) Adsorber Cartridge were replaced in preparation for the next test runs. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the CIR that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. While SoFIE initially meets the requirements of five investigations, it is intended for use by any researchers who propose related solid combustion studies to NASA in the future.
Space Organogenesis: The Organoid Culture Unit was removed from the Confocal Space Microscopy, and the Microscope was closed out. The Development of Advanced 3D Organ Culture System Utilizing the Microgravity Environment (Space Organogenesis) investigation demonstrates growth of organ buds from human stem cells in three-dimensional (3D) cultures in microgravity. Researchers plan to use these cultures to observe growth of the organ buds and analyze changes in gene expression. Cell culture on Earth needs supportive materials or forces to achieve 3D growth, but in microgravity cell cultures likely can expand into three dimensions without those devices.
Systems:
Crew Alternate Sleep Accommodation (CASA) Bumpout Deploy: The crew deployed the CASA in the Columbus module in preparation for the arrival of the Axiom-3 (Ax-3) crew this week. The CASA serves as a temporary crew quarters (CQ) when there are multiple crew vehicles docked with the USOS and allows visiting crew additional privacy during their time on the ISS.
Ax-3 Arrival Preparations: The crew performed several tasks in preparation for Ax-3 arrival. These tasks included the staging of emergency equipment for the additional crew, staging of pre-launched preference items for the additional crew, and a video conference with the Ax-3 crew. Ax-3 is currently scheduled to dock with the ISS on Friday, January 19th.
Starboard CQ Inspections: The crew performed an inspection of the Starboard CQ fan ducting. The Starboard CQ has been experiencing lower than expected airflow, so the crew used an endoscope to see farther into the ducting to determine if there is some form of blockage. Proper airflow is necessary for both crew comfort and to make sure that breathable air is circulated, and CO2 does not collect in the CQ due to the microgravity environment.
Tablet Network Connection Troubleshooting: The crew performed troubleshooting activities to try and determine why crew tablets are not able to connect the Mobile Device Management Tool used to perform updates to the onboard iPads and/or support troubleshooting from the ground. These activities included power cycling of the tablets, the routers, and the firewalls on the ISS. These steps were not successful in recovering the connection, and ground teams are convening to discuss next steps.
