
External Thermal Control System (ETCS) Loop B Recovery Status:  Ground teams continue working towards incrementally re-pressurizing ETCS Loop B.  Last night’s re-pressurization resulted in a 1% decrease in Ammonia Tank Assembly (ATA) tank quantity.  Ground teams are targeting a total of 7% decrease (0.63 c.f. NH3) before a Loop B restart is attempted. The Loop B Interface Heat Exchangers (IFHX) remain bypassed and isolated, preventing internal heat rejection on Loop B.  Due to the loss of heat rejection for the Node 2 Low Temperature Loop (LTL), half of the power loads in the Node 2, JEM and Columbus modules remain powered down.  ETCS Loop A continues to operate nominally.
Conjunction with Object #27317:  Overnight, ground teams evaluating tracking data for a possible conjunction with object #27317. The concern level on the item was found to be low, and work on a potential Pre-Determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM) was cancelled.
Wearable monitoring:  Cristoforetti doffed the Wearable Monitoring Vest, transferred data and stowed hardware from the second Wearable Monitoring session.  Wearable Monitoring validates a new cloth vest that monitors astronaut heart rates and breathing patterns during sleep. It collects data to investigate whether changes in heart activity are related to astronauts’ poor sleep quality. Current technology cannot check astronauts’ heart activity while they sleep because the test wakes them up. The Wearable Monitor is a lightweight vest with silver wires and sensors embedded into the fabric, making it more comfortable to wear.
Micro-5:  The Micro-5 bacteria activation activity was divided into a morning session and an afternoon session. In each session, Virts performed the same actions using different serial number hardware.  During each session, inside Microgravity Science glovebox (MSG), Virts activated the bacteria in each bacteria growth bag using the inoculum syringe. After activation, the bacteria growth bags and inoculum syringes were placed back into the bacteria kit and then that kit placed inside Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus-4 (CGBA-4) for incubation. The Investigation of host-pathogen interactions, conserved cellular responses, and countermeasure efficacy during spaceflight using the human surrogate model Caenorhabditis elegans (Micro-5) investigation aims to better understand the risks of in-flight infections in space explorers during long-term space flight using the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans (roundworm) with the microbe Salmonella typhimurium (causes food poisoning in humans).
SPHERES Zero Robotics:  Wilmore, Serova and Cristoforetti welcomed hundreds of students from North America, Europe and Russia to the Zero Robotics competition aboard the ISS and engage in the operations associated with the SPHERES Zero Robotics event broadcast LIVE to the participants on the ground.  The SPHERES Zero Robotics investigation establishes an opportunity for high school students to design research for the ISS. As part of a competition, students write algorithms for the SPHERES satellites to accomplish tasks relevant to future space missions. The algorithms are tested by the SPHERES team and the best designs are selected for the competition to operate the SPHERES satellites on board the ISS.
Biological Research In Canisters-20 (BRIC-20): Wilmore reviewed onboard Training (OBT) materials and then actuated the BRIC-20 canisters.  Cristoforetti took digital stills for Historical Documentation Photography of the BRIC actuation. The Biological Research in Canisters (BRIC) hardware has supported a variety of plant growth investigations.  The BRIC-20 investigation will focus on the growth and development of samples in microgravity.  Samples will be preserved with a chemical fixative and returned to the ground for post flight evaluation.
Airway Monitoring:  Cristoforetti worked to set up and power on the Airway Monitoring equipment in the US Lab.  Some hardware issues delayed the activation of the setup, and remaining activities were deferred from today’s plan.  The experiment operations are expected to be rescheduled soon.
Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) Switch Failure:  RPCM LAD11B_A switch 04, which provides power to Video Switching Unit 1 (VSU1) had failed open this past Wednesday.   Attempts to reclose the switch were unsuccessful today.  VSU1 is required for processing 3 of 6 possible external camera views and is also needed for sending video to the Lab Robotics Work Station (RWS) monitors.   Ground teams are preparing procedures in order to replace the RPCM as early as next week.
Russian Treadmill (BD2) Control Panel Change Out:  Russian crew successfully replaced the control panel associated with BD2.  The control panel had failed in November 2014 and a replacement was subsequently manifested onboard SpaceX-5.

