ISS On-Orbit Status 01/16/12
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   US Holiday – Martin Luther King Day.    Underway: Week 9 of Increment 30 (six-person crew).
 
 After wakeup, FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
 FE-5 Kuipers &amp; FE-6 Pettit completed their 7th post-sleep sessions of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol. [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
 In preparation for Progress M-13M/45P (#413) undocking on 1/24 and Progress M-14M/46P launch on 1/25, FE-1 Shkaplerov &amp; FE-4 Kononenko conducted the standard 40-min. vehicle-to-vehicle TORU test between the SM and the DC1 nadir-docked Progress 45P, closely monitored by ground personnel on DO3 via VHF at 1:58am. Progress thrusters (DPO) were inhibited and not involved. [The TORU teleoperator system lets an SM-based crewmember perform the approach &amp; docking of automated Progress vehicles manually in case of failure of the KURS radio-based autopilot.]
 
 After setting up the G1 video camcorder for monitoring his SODI (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument) activities in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-5 Kuipers stowed the DSC (Diffusion Soret Coefficient) hardware, the Colloid Flash Disk Container and the SODI core hardware, part-time assisted by Dan Burbank, after verifying with the ground that a 20-minute touch temperature cooldown period had passed. [Colloid is part of the ESA triple experiment series of SODI (IVIDIL, DSC, Colloid) for advanced research in vibration effects on diffusion in liquids, diffusion measurements in petroleum reservoirs and the study on growth and properties of advanced photonic materials within colloidal solutions, respectively.]
 
 In the Lab, CDR Burbank cleared access to the MSG WV (Microgravity Science Glovebox Work Volume), then performed repairs.       [On the front stray light cover, Dan restored partially detached or missing pieces of Velcro on the back side of the cover; he also replaced the AL (Airlock) Bezel hardware with a new unit and swapped a feedthrough cable.  Afterwards, MSG was powered down and the old hardware was staged for trash.]
 
 In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-6 Pettit cleaned the JAXA CB (Clean Bench) facility, wiping the DC (Disinfection Chamber) clean and checking out its relief valve. The CB was then returned to stowed configuration. [The Clean Bench consists of two compartments; the DC and the OC. Air circulated inside is kept clean by HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) filters. Crewmembers operate the experiment materials with gloves from outside to prevent contamination from the ambient air.]
 
 Also in JPM, FE-6 reviewed procedures for the CFE VG2 (Capillary Flow Experiments / Vane Gap 2) experiment, then prepared the MWA WSA (Maintenance Work Area / Work Surface Area) and conducted  a 2-hr test session with the VG2 vessel.  The equipment was then torn down and stowed away.
 
 André Kuipers unstowed &amp; set up the equipment for his 2nd (FD30) session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring assessment, scheduled tomorrow.   [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session. The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan includes an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise. The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
 André also started another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later. [Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop. The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer). This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
 FE-5 used the CSA-O2 (Compound Specific Analyzer-O2) units (#1043, #1048) to take oxygen partial pressure readings in the SM and COL to see if an O2 refresh was called for.
 
 On TsUP Go, Kononenko was to refresh ISS cabin atmosphere with another O2 represses from Progress 45P SRPK tankage.
 
 Shkaplerov &amp; Kononenko had ~1.5 hrs set aside to review a video DVD to familiarize themselves with the upcoming (1/19) photo/video documentation of pre-deployment activities for the Chibis-M MIKROSPUTNIK (Microsatellite) from Progress 45P after its undocking from the station on 1/24.
 
 For the microsatellite deployment, Kononenko searched for suitable gear to latch the ACA (Active Docking Assembly) hatch of Progress 45P in open position.
 
 Oleg also verified availability of a plug in Progress 45P, required before proceedings with Chibis-M microsatellite pre-installation steps.      [The plug should be strapped to the elements of the PGK hatch sealing drive at StA.]
 
 Next, Anton removed the ZVB quick-release screw clamps on the SSVP docking mechanism at the DC1 StA–Progress 45P interface, with video recording using the HVR-Z7E camera and CF memory card followed by OCA downlink.
 
 With its KPT-2 Piren pyro-endoscope battery charged overnight, a 10-hr activity, Shkaplerov &amp; Ivanishin spent another ~2.5 hrs with the KPT-2 payload with its BAR science instruments suite, checking out micro conditions of the SM surface in areas with identified signs of microflora growth on the pressurized shell surface and measuring local temperatures with the Piren-V. The work will be continued tomorrow. [Problem area monitoring is necessary to predict shell micro-destruction rate and to develop measures to extend station life. Data were copied to the RSE1 laptop for downlink to Earth via OCA, with photographs, and the activities were supported by ground specialist tagup as required. Objective of the Russian KPT-2/BARscience payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night). Piren-V is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization. Besides KPT-2 Piren-V, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times. Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
 Dan Burbank began the initial deployment of the R14 software in PCS (Portable Computer System) laptops, first installing 2 PCS R14 HDDs (Hard Disk Drives), then waiting until C&amp;C MDM (Command &amp; Control Multiplexer/Demultiplexer) transition was performed by the ground, and finally installing, on MCC-Houston Go, the 5 remaining PCS R14 HDDs.  All old R13 HDDs were stowed.     [C&amp;C reconfiguration, PCS patch installations, etc. were later conducted by the ground.]
 
 Anton Shkaplerov performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 Anton also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Anatoly Ivanishin performed the periodic (every Monday) verification of the automatic IUS AntiVirus program on the Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2, as well as the manual update on the non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1. [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the SSCV4 software update. Before the installation (on 8/8) of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1. On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops. Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied onRSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily. On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
 FE-5 Kuipers conducted the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling in Node-3 using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose. [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]
 
 FE-4 Kononenko continued the current round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today inspecting &amp; cleaning “Group B2” ventilator fans &amp; grilles in the SM.
 
 Anatoly had ~3.5 hrs for incorporating new PCN (Page Change Notice) instructions in all 6 copies of the EMER-1 Book (SM, FGB, Lab, both Soyuz vehicles and Node-2), replacing outdated pages with new ones, restowing the books and discarding the old material. 
 
 In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), André removed the NEUROSPAT hard disk from the ESA Multipurpose laptop (assembled with A31p Ultrabay Adapter) and inserted it into the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop for analysis and recovery.
 
 André also verified availability of one fully charged G1 camcorder battery in COL for tomorrow’s scheduled EPO (Education Program Operation) experiment “Convection”.
 
 In the US Lab, CDR Burbank uninstalled &amp; removed the three protective alignment guides from CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) at Bay S3, engaged the snubber pins and locked the safety pins to allow the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be active before begin of ground-commanded CIR operations requiring a microgravity environment.
 
 Burbank has another time slot reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on his personal SSC (Station Support Computer). [Required are three journaling sessions per week.] 
 
 Before Presleep, Dan will turn on the MPC (Multi Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link). After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again. [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
 The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4).
 
 Before exercising on the TVIS device, FE-4 set up the G1 video camera in Node-3 to cover the workout sessions of him, Anton &amp; Anatoly on the treadmill, to meet the regular 30-day requirement for biomechanical evaluation of the on-orbit crewmembers, and evaluation of the hardware status.  Afterwards, the TVIS skirt was reinstalled and the video footage transferred to VTR (Video Tape Recorder) for ground downlink.
 
 The Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list for FE-1 &amp; FE-2 for today suggested more preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
 No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 
 
