ISS On-Orbit Status 01/14/12
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – Crew half duty day.
 
 After wakeup, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection. 
 
 Dan Burbank, Anton Shkaplerov, Anatoly Ivanishin, Oleg Kononenko, André Kuipers &amp; Don Pettit joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module). ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 As part of Uborka house cleaning, Anton, Anatoly &amp; Oleg completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).
 
 Ivanishin conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. This included the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow, as well as the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s &amp; FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for calldown. [SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].
 
 In COL, FE-5 performed the periodic reboot on the active PWS (Portable Workstation) laptops, noting state of battery charge for reporting to COL-CC (Control Center) at Oberpfaffenhofen/Germany.
 
 Burbank took André Kuipers &amp; Don Pettit through another hour of Increment 30-to-31 crew handover activities.
 
 Afterwards, André used the CSA-O2 (Compound Specific Analyzer-O2) units (#1043, #1048) to take oxygen partial pressure readings in the SM and COL to see if an O2 refresh was called for.
 
 On TsUP Go, Kononenko was to refresh ISS cabin atmosphere with another O2 represses from Progress 45P SRPK tankage.     [Not required today.]
 
 Later, Oleg did another (T+2d) microbial air sampling runs for the MedOps SZM-MO-21 experiment with the standard ECOSFERA equipment, taking Media 1 samples from cabin surfaces along with samples from crewmembers for sanitation and disease studies. The Petri dishes with the samples were then stowed in the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic container and subsequently packed for return in Soyuz 28S. [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger and power supply unit, provides samples to help determine microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.]
 
 FE-5 Kuipers performed the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes. 
 
 André &amp; Dan worked together on today’s choice of the VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) program, with the ERB2 (European Recording Binocular 2) payload, first disconnecting ERB2 from the ESA EDR (European Drawer Rack), equipping it with new batteries, checking White Balance and Focus setting and then shooting video of onboard activities in all ISS locations, without script (but crew was invited to apply creativity for filming). ERB2 was then turned off, reconnected to EDR and the camera mounted on its EDR multi-use bracket. [ERB uses a three-dimensional (3-D) video camera, the Sony DSR PD150P camcorder and a Nikon SSM-3DC-101 D photo camera for taking imagery of the environment onboard the ISS for an accurate map of the station’s interior and crew activities.  The images are transferred by a computer application into a 3D model to be viewed in the Virtual Reality Theater of ESA’s Erasmus Center.] 
 
 As second VolSci activity, Dan Burbank checked out the Panasonic 3DA1 video camcorder, first recording with lens cap on to ascertain the status of the camera’s sensors, then shooting video “fly through” from one module of ISS to another with varied convergence settings.       [This will allow better understanding of optimum convergence settings for moving camera interior shooting.  Dan also recorded any ad hoc interior or external views which highlight the 3D capability.]
 
 Burbank &amp; Pettit and later also Shkaplerov, Ivanishin &amp; Kononenko had ~15 min set aside to review impacts to procedures from the upcoming X2R11 software upgrade throughout ISS.
 
 FE-6 Pettit filled out his 3rd weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer). [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software. Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins. The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health. Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 At ~7:40am EST, the six crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 FE-4 &amp; FE-6 conducted their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Oleg at ~9:20am, Don at ~10:55am EST.
 
 The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4).
 
 Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
 <ul><li>A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, aiming for the glaciers of the Pamirs, Kerch Strait, Taman, Laganakskoe plateau, Krasnaya Polyana, Kolka glacier, Glacier Allalin, <li>A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the Central-Eastern and South-Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop, <li>A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and <li>More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 </li></li></li></li></ul>
 
