
Status:  
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Zero Robotics Dry Run: Kelly and Kornienko set up SPHERES hardware and executed a dry run for the Zero Robotics competition scheduled for January 25th. The SPHERES Zero Robotics investigation establishes an opportunity for high school students to design research for the ISS. As part of a competition, students write algorithms for the SPHERES satellites to accomplish tasks relevant to future space missions. The algorithms are tested by the SPHERES team and the best designs are selected for the competition to operate the SPHERES satellites on board the ISS.
 
Circadian Rhythms: Peake configured and donned the Armband Monitor and Thermolab sensors and belt for his Flight Day 30 Circadian Rhythm session.  He will wear the monitors for 36 hours, then doff and download the data on Wednesday.  Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
 
EvaluatIon and Monitoring of MicrobiofiLms Inside the ISS (ViABLE)  Payload Touch:  Kelly touched the palm of his hand to experimental materials located on the top covers of ViABLE bags.  He also blew on experimental materials located on those covers.  This activity is performed approximately every 45 days and the bags are photographed at 6 month intervals.  ViABLE involves the evaluation of microbial biofilm development on metallic and textile space materials located inside and on the cover of Nomex pouches. Microbial biofilms are known for causing damage and contamination on the Mir space station and the ISS.  The potential application of novel methodologies and products to treat space materials may lead to improvements in the environmental quality of confined human habitats in space and on earth.
 
Post Extravehicular Activity Cleanup: On Saturday, Peake and Kopra completed post EVA activities including EVA Tool Stow, Post-EVA medical assessment, and airlock deconfiguration.  They also moved EMUs 3003 and 3005 back to the airlock from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Pressurized Module (JPM).  Kelly, Peake and Kopra participated in an EVA debrief with ground specialists.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 Status: During last Friday’s EVA, Kopra reported a bubble of water in EMU 3011 helmet.  Over the weekend the crew took additional suit samples for return and ground analysis.  The suit was pressurized and an unmanned leak screening was performed for a duration of 6 hours.  The screening was successfully completed with no leaks detected. Further discussions will be held this week to determine the forward plan for EMU 3011.
 
Starboard Crew Quarters (CQ) Light Housing Assembly (LHA): The CQ LHA failed overnight. The crew replaced it with an on-orbit spare but the spare LHA did not illuminate. A Baseplate Ballast Assembly (BBA) and LHA Remove & Replace (R&R) will be scheduled this week.
 

