
Orbital 1 Status:  Following yesterday’s successful launch, the Cygnus spacecraft completed Delta Velocity (DV) burns 1 – 4 successfully. The Cygnus Control Room is not working any major issues at this time.  Capture is planned for Sunday, January 12th at approximately 5:02am CST. Cygnus will deliver 2,780 pounds of science experiments, hardware, and crew provisions to the ISS.
Payload 1 (PL-1) MDM Enhanced Processor Integrated Communications (EPIC) Card Replacement:  The PL-1 MDM has been experiencing an increased number of loss of communication events. The most likely cause of these issue has been traced to the EPIC card.  Today, Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio replaced the EPIC card in the PL-1 MDM with one of the three spares onboard.  The MDM has since been activated and is operating in a standby role.  The MDM will remain in this standby configuration for approximately 60 days before being configured to primary. PL-2 MDM has been operating without issues as the primary MDM.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Set Screw Tightening:  FE-3 Hopkins tightened and torqued multiple set screws within the ARED Cylinder Flywheels. The set screws have a history of becoming loose and a yearly maintenance activity is in place to tighten the screws.
Aniso Tubule Experiment:  Today, FE-6 Wakata performed activities in support of JAXA’s Aniso Tubule experiment.  He watered the second set of seeds in a sample chamber and then stowed the chamber in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) to simulate the winter season for plants.  The Aniso Tubule experiment investigates the roles of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins in gravity-induced growth modification of plant stems.
eValuatIon And monitoring of microBiofiLms insidE the ISS (ViABLE) Experiment:  Wakata touched the palm of his hand to experimental materials located on the top covers of ViABLE 4 bags. He also blew on experimental materials located on those covers.  This activity is performed every 45 days and the bags are photographed at 6 month intervals.  ViABLE involves the evaluation of microbial biofilm development on metallic and textile space materials located inside and on the cover of Nomex pouches. Microbial biofilms are known for causing damage and contamination on the Mir space station and the ISS.  The potential application of novel methodologies and products to treat space materials may lead to improvements in the environmental quality of confined human habitats in space and on earth.
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE) Vane Gap 2 Test:  Wakata set up and initiated a CFE Vane Gap 2 fluid test run.  Because liquids behave differently in space than they do on Earth, containers that can process, hold or transport them must be designed to work in microgravity. The CFE-2 furthers research on wetting (a liquid’s ability to spread across a surface) and its impact over large length scales in strange container shapes in microgravity environments. The results of these tests may be used to improve the capability to quickly and accurately predict how related processes occur, and support the design of improved systems to process liquids aboard spacecraft (i.e., liquid fuel tanks, thermals fluids, and water processing for life support).
Cosmo Shoot High Definition Television (HDTV) Recorder Removal and Replacement (R&R):  Wakata R&R’ed the failed Cosmo Shoot HDTV Recorder and then verified correct recording functionality.

