ISS On-Orbit Status 01/19/12
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 After wakeup, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
 FE-4 Kononenko completed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the “bake-out” cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system. FE-4 will terminate the process at ~5:45pm EST. Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday. (Done last: 12/8 &amp; 12/9).[Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hrs and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days.]
 
 CDR Burbank completed his 15th post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol. [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS. The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
 FE-5 Kuipers began his 2nd (FD30) suite of sessions with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period. After recording his diet input today, André will begin the urine collections for pH value on Sunday (1/22) and blood sampling on Monday (1/23). [For Pro K, there will be five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day (science sessions are often referred to by Flight Day 15, 30, 60, etc. However, there are plus-minus windows associated with these time points so a “Flight Day 15” science session may not actually fall on the crewmember’s 15th day on-orbit). The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken. Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection. Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC. There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged). MELFI constraints: Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
 Dan Burbank spent several hours on updating the spare CUCU (COTS UHF Communications Unit) which he had installed in ER6 (Express Rack 6) on 1/11.     [Telemetry contention prevented the ground from completing the post-update ground checkout of the Spare CUCU and subsequent reconfig back to the Primary CUCU today.  The software update config gear is being cleaned up by the ground, and both CUCUs are left powered off overnight for finishing up the final checkouts and reconfig tomorrow afternoon. Final config will leave the Prime CUCU powered on for continued performance characterization by SpaceX.] 
 
 Using the Shumomer Sound Level Meter, FE-2 Ivanishin set up the hardware and took noise level measurements in the SM to test the performance of the sound level meter.
 
 For the yearly certification of the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), FE-6 Pettit performed the MSG Sensor Functional Verification Test, using the MLC (MSG Laptop Computer) to begin data collection as soon as the test was initiated (RPC Closure).    [Part 1 tested the MSG’s temperature sensors.  Part 2 tested the Air Handling Unit (AHU) fans and the associated negative pressure control system.] 
 
 Afterwards, Dan Burbank also worked on the MSG, inspecting the equipment and cleaning the WV (Work Volume).
 
 FE-5 Kuipers performed a checkout of the new EHS SLM (Environmental Health System Sound Level Meter), activating the SLM and conducting an acoustic survey of specific locations in the ISS.
 
 Don Pettit gathered the hardware of the SLICE (Structure &amp; Liftoff In Combustion Experiment) experiment and reviewed procedural material for operating the payload.     [Objectives of SLICE are to characterize the structure of a flame from attached through lifted conditions, identify the liftoff velocity limits, i.e., where the flame separates from the burner tube and, in the final quarter of testing, conduct the SPICE (Smoke Point In Coflow Experiment) which was last conducted in 2009.  Earth application: Increased efficiency and reduced pollutant emission for practical combustion devices, improved numerical modeling, hence improved design tools, hence improved practical combustion on Earth (currently, the good modeling-experiment agreement breaks down when flames are lean or heavily sooting).  Measurements: still images (with camera that was blackbody calibrated for pyrometry), video &amp; radiometer.  Hardware:  SLICE will be conducted in the MSG using the SPICE hardware.]
 
 In the PMA1 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 1), Burbank cleaned the screen filter in the IMV (Inter-module Ventilation) duct.\
 
 Anton Shkaplerov conducted the regular (weekly) inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).
 
 Anton also performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 Anatoly Ivanishin took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 FE-5 &amp; FE-1 joined in reviewing Progress 45P leak check and hatch closure procedures, supported by ground specialist tagup via S-band.
 
 Afterwards, Anton prepared the Progress M-13M/45P cargo ship for its undocking on 1/24 from the DC1 Docking Compartment, uninstalling &amp; removing the LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12 onboard measurement telemetry, along with its ROM unit (read-only memory, TA765B) for re-use.
 
 Shkaplerov then removed the two external handles from the Progress 45P hatch door (two screws on each handle) and stowed the handles and fasteners in a Ziploc bag and in the StA accessories case near DC1 ASP docking ring.
 
 Next, FE-1 activated the Progress cargo ship.  Closure of the DC1/SU transfer hatch was to be completed later before sleeptime upon TsUP-Moscow Go.
 
 Anatoly &amp; Anton prepared for the deployment of the GFI-28 Chibis-M MIKROSPUTNIK from Progress 45P after undocking by readying the Progress StA docking ring and installing the TPK transport launch container with the MS Microsatellite on StA.      [45P will undock from ISS on 1/23 with Chibis deploy a day later on 1/24.]
 
 Ivanishin &amp; Kononenko had 2.5 hrs for conducting an extensive audit/inventory of SLG personal hygiene items (e.g., SLG-3 wet towels) in the RS (Russian Segment).  After filling in tables, the crew was to downlink the file via OCA.
 
 André Kuipers conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies. Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.   [The current card (29-0008F) lists 40 CWCs (560.1 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (4 CWCs with 132.1 L, for Elektron electrolysis, all containing Wautersia bacteria, plus 1 empty bag; 2. Condensate water (3 CWCs with 15.8 L), 8 empty bags; 3. Iodinated water (13 CWCs with 224.7 L; also 9 expired bags with 160.9 L); 4. Waste water (1 bag with 6.4 L EMU waste water); and 5. Special fluid (1 CWC with 20.2 L, hose/pump flush). Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents. Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources. These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 Don Pettit set up the USND (Ultrasound), then placed reference markers on the thigh and calf of his right leg and donned the SPRINT thigh and calf guides with André Kuiper’s assistance. He then performed a SPRINT leg scan with remote guidance from ground teams, his 2nd (FD30).      [SPRINT (Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study) evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.]
 
 Afterwards, André performed his first session with the MedOps psychological evaluation experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application. [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request. The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall. These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]
 
 STP-H3 (Space Test Program – Houston 3) Inspection:    Yesterday, controllers successfully translated the MT (Mobile Transporter) from WS2 (Worksite 2) to WS7 and successfully retrieved the SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator) from the MBS PDGF-2 (Mobile Base System 2 / Power &amp; Data Grapple Fixture 2). During the operation, MT translation was automatically aborted at WS7 when one of the microswitches that indicate whether the MT is properly positioned at the worksite did not transition as expected. This has happened before.   The remainder of the translation was nominal and occurred within thermal limits. Today, the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) with SPDM successfully inspected the STP-H3 payload. The SPDM was successfully returned to MBS PDGF-2. Later today, the MT was translated from WS2 to WS4. Tomorrow the SSRMS will walk off to the Node 2 PDGF in support of upcoming operations associated with the SpaceX Demo flight.
 
 The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4).
 
 Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
 <ul><li>A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, <li>A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and <li>More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 </li></li></li></ul>
 

