
Payloads
Biolab maintenance – The crew performed maintenance activities on the Biolab facility. These activities included exchanging the defective Life Support Module 2 (LSM2), as well as the installation of a new LSM4.  Although the Biolab facility is not currently supporting any science, these activities prepare it for future science.  The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the Columbus laboratory. It’s used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
CCU (Collapsible Contingency Urinal) demo – The crew attempted to continue the CCU demo series of experiment runs but decided to stand down until issues with flow and leakage can be addressed. The Collapsible Contingency Urinal is exploration hardware flown to ISS as a tech demo. The approach includes a fractal wetting design that incorporates smart capillary fluidics. This work could have a broad impact on capillary-based fluid management on spacecraft and on Earth.
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (SCEM) – The crew continued the on-going work to install the SCEM and gas bottle into the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR).  SCEM will be used to support the Fire Safety in Space – Base for Safety of Future Manned Missions (FLARE) experiment. FLARE is a JAXA investigation which explores the flammability of materials in microgravity. Various solid fuels are burned under different conditions and observed inside a flow tunnel. Microgravity significantly affects combustion phenomena and results are expected to contribute to the improvement of fire safety in space.
Veg-03J plant check – The crew checked the plants growing as part of Veg-03J, added water as necessary, and took photos of the plants. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. But future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03 uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate Extra Dwarf Pak Choi, Amara Mustard and Red Romaine Lettuce using Seed Film which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing.
Systems
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Service and Performance Checkout Unit (SPCU) Heat Exchanger (HX) Remove and Replace (R&R) – The crew removed and replaced the ISS Joint Airlock SPCU Heat Exchanger. The SPCU Heat Exchanger is part of the Airlock Coolant Loop which supplies the cooling needs to the Extra-Vehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Units (EMUs) while connected to the Service and Cooling Umbilical (SCU). The ISS Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Low Temperature Loop (LTL) provides cooling to the heat exchanger. The SPCU Heat Exchanger was last R&R’d on January 25th, 2013 and has a maximum life of 8 years.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace – The crew R&R’d the Pre-Treat Tank as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection – The crew performed the periodic PEP inspection, which involves utilizing a PEPs matrix and inspecting various emergency provisions such as the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), Quick Don Mask (QDM), and Extension Hose Tee Assemblies at multiple locations throughout the space station.  The crew spends several minutes on each item and notes any visible damage. Inspections are performed routinely to ensure the PEPs are in good operational condition.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis – Crew performed an analysis of the water processing assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.

