
Payloads:
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Internal Ball Camera 2: The crew performed JEM Camera Robot 2 checkout and demonstration activities. JEM Internal Ball Camera 2 demonstrates technology for automating video and photos of research activities. Crew time is one of the most valuable resources on the ISS, and many simple, repetitive tasks could be automated. This frees up crew time for more important activities.
Plant Habitat-06: The crew performed the first harvest of Solanum Lycopersicum (Tomato) leaves and prepared them for return. Effect of Spaceflight and Simulated Microgravity on Plant Defense Responses (Plant Habitat-06) experiment investigates the physiological and genetic responses to defense activation and immune system function in tomatoes during spaceflight. Genetic sequencing and analyses indicates that plants exhibit an adaptive defense response rather than the initial defensive response. A better understanding of how microgravity affects plant immune function is needed to support plant growth and food production on future space missions.
Plant Water Management 5 and 6: The crew performed Plant Water Management Test Cell activities through ebb and flow and hydroponics tests using Plant Water Management 5 hardware. Providing adequate water and nutrition to plants grown in space is affected by the absence or decreased presence of gravity. Plant Water Management 5 and 6 plan to demonstrate how physical properties of fluids, such as surface tension and wetting, are viable as mechanisms to provide hydration and aeration for plants being grown in environments of varying gravity.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: The crew performed a VR Mental Care session. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality (HQ) VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires (via the ESA EveryWear app).
Systems:
Tablet Network Connection Troubleshooting: The crew continued performing troubleshooting activities to try and determine why crew tablets are not able to connect to the Mobile Device Management Tool used to perform updates to the onboard tablets and/or support troubleshooting from the ground. These activities included power cycling of the tablets, the routers, and the wireless access points in Node 1 and Node 2 on the ISS. These steps were not successful in recovering the connection, and ground teams are convening to discuss next steps.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace (R&R): Today, the Pre-Treat Tank was R&Red as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
