
Neuromapping:  Kopra completed a NeuroMapping Neurocognitive test on a Human Research Facility laptop.  The Neuromapping experiment studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes any changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking; as well as measuring how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from those possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from crewmembers returning from a long-duration spaceflight suggests that movement control and cognition are affected in microgravity.
 
Skin-B:  Peake completed a session today for the European Space Agency (ESA) Skin-B investigation.  He took  Corneometer measurements of the hydration level of the stratus coreum (outer layer of the skin), Tewameter measurements of the skin barrier function, and Visioscan measurements of skin surface topography. The Skin-B investigation aims to improve the understanding of skin aging, which is greatly accelerated in space.  The data will also be used to verify the results from previous testing for the SkinCare investigation on the ISS.
 
Veg-01 Observation: Ground experts identified in downlinked photographs potential mold on one of the three remaining plants for the Veg-01 experiment.  Yesterday Scott trimmed all the area with spots, double bagged them and placed them into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  The Veg-01 investigation is used to assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie facility, focusing on the growth and development of seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the composition of microbial flora on the plants and the facility.  For this run, Zinnias will be grown for 60 days and are expected to produce flowers.
 
Cognition:  Kopra performed his Flight Day 27 session of the Cognition experiment today.  The Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) investigation is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software used allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Habitability: Today Kopra documented his recent observations and Kelly recorded a walk-through video of an area or activity and provided insights related to human factors and habitability.  The Habitability investigation results will be used to assess the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as near earth asteroids and Mars. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions can help spacecraft designers determine how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  The USOS Crew prepared the Equipment Lock, Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMU), and ancillary hardware to support upcoming Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) EVA scheduled for Friday, January 15th.   In addition, they conducted an EMU On-Orbit Fit Verification (OFV) for Peake in order to confirm the correct sizing on EMU 3008.
 
ISS Reboost:  ISS performed a reboost Sunday night using the Progress 61P thrusters. The delta-V for the burn was 1.65 meters per second.  This reboost is the first in a series of reboosts to target the planned conditions for the Soyuz 44 landing on March 2nd, Soyuz 46 four orbit rendezvous on March 19th, and Progress 63 four orbit rendezvous on March 31st.
 

