
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Pump Status:  Today, the Remote Power Controller (RPC) associated with the JEM LTL Pump tripped open as a result of a spike in current coming from the pump.  The failure caused a short-term loss of cooling for a subset of JEM Systems.  The Flight Control Team has since transitioned to single Low Temperature (LT) Loop mode and restored cooling for all JEM systems. JAXA specialists continue to investigate the cause and are working towards a forward plan.
Cygnus Cargo Operations: All three USOS crew members continued cargo operations. They reported working a combined total of 8 hours of cargo operations today. An approximate 1.5 hours of crew time is estimated to unpack the remaining Cygnus cargo items.
Soyuz 36S Emergency Descent Training:  Commander (CDR) Kotov, Flight Engineer (FE)-2 Ryazanskiy, and FE-3 Hopkins all participated in a Soyuz Emergency Descent Drill. The crew gained proficiency by reviewing Soyuz emergency undock and landing procedures for various off nominal scenarios.
Cosmo Shoot Operations:  FE-6 Wakata set up the Cosmo Shoot laptop and 4K camera this morning in the Cupola to prepare for capturing images of the Earth surface.  This afternoon he removed the hardware and temporarily stowed it back in the JEM.
Vaccine-21 Group Activation Packs (GAPs) Operations:  Mastracchio accessed the Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus-2 (CGBA-2), activated all 16 Vaccine-21 GAPs and then returned them into the CGBA-2.  This experiment, also referred to as Antibiotic Effectiveness in Space-1 (AES-1), tests the hypothesis that antibiotics used to treat bacterial grown in space will exhibit reduced efficacy and will be associated with specific changes in bacterial gene expression that correlate with cell survival.
Aniso Tubule Experiment:  Wakata performed activities to support JAXA’s Aniso Tubule experiment.  He retrieved the second set of seeds he watered 4 days ago and placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) to simulate a winter season for the plants.  Today he exposed the seeds to light for approximately 6 hours and then place them into the Cell Biology Experiment Unit (CBEF) for cultivation.  The Aniso Tubule experiment investigates the roles of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins in gravity-induced growth modification of plant stems.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Following yesterday’s Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) LEE-A snare cables photo capture and subsequent SSRMS walk off to the Lab Power and Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF),  Wakata took photographs of the SSRMS LEE-B snare cables today. This is a periodic maintenance activity performed every 20 LEE snare cycles to assess the condition of the snare cables.  The photos are being downlinked for review by the engineering team.
Hatch Seal Inspection: Mastracchio performed a periodic hatch seal inspection for Node 1, Lab, Node 2, and the Node 3 module. During the inspection the crew cleaned and inspected the Hatch Seals, Hatch Plate Sealing Surface, and checked the Hatch Handle Mechanism for FOD or damage. Inspection results for all hatches were reported as nominal. The preventative maintenance task is performed once every 180 days.

