All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday – Ahead: Week 13 of Increment 18.
 
 FE-2 Magnus' first activity this morning was to start on the second day of her FD60 (Flight Day 60) session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository.  This was an all-day session, the third for Sandy, of collecting urine samples several times until termination after 24 hrs.    [The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]
 
 CDR Fincke &amp; Magnus performed their part of the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, focusing on the USOS (US Orbital Segment).  FE-1 Lonchakov had preceded them yesterday with his part of “Uborka”.    [Uborka, usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 Sandy completed the daily flushing of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser).   [The PWD had been found, via several microbial analyses by Magnus, to have bacteria growing in the ambient water.  It is suspected that this is due to the water being stagnant and not used.  The crew now performs daily flushes with 100 mL of deionized water.]
 
 The station residents conducted their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), IRED/Interim Resistive Exercise Device (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 In the SM (Service Module), FE-1 Lonchakov performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]
 
 For Yuri, it was time again for recharging the Motorola Iridium-9505A satellite phone brought up on Soyuz 17S, a monthly routine job and his third time.      [After retrieving it from its location in the TMA-13/17S Descent Module (BO), Yuri initiated the recharge of its lithium-ion battery, monitoring the process every 10-15 minutes as it took place. Upon completion at ~10:15am EST, the phone was returned inside its SSSP Iridium kit and stowed back in the BO's operational data files (ODF) container. The satphone accompanies returning ISS crews on Soyuz reentry &amp; landing for contingency communications with SAR (Search-and-Rescue) personnel after touchdown (e.g., after an “undershoot” ballistic reentry, as happened during the recent 15S return).  The Russian-developed procedure for the monthly recharging has been approved jointly by safety officials.  During the procedure, the phone is left in its fire-protective fluoroplastic bag with open flap.  The Iridium 9505A satphone uses the Iridium constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to relay the landed Soyuz capsule's GPS (Global Positioning System) coordinates to helicopter-borne recovery crews.  The older Iridium-9505 phones were first put onboard Soyuz in August 2003. The newer 9505A phone, currently in use, delivers 30 hours of standby time and three hours of talk, up from 20 and two hours, respectively, on the older units.]
 
 The crew had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Yuri at 7:45am, Sandy at 2:06pm, Mike at 2:40pm EST.
 
 On the Russian Matryoshka-R (RBO-3-2) radiation payload in the DC-1, the FE-1 deactivated the AST Spectrometer, removed its ALC-957 PCMCIA (Portable Computer Memory Card International Adapter) and checked out its contents on the RSK-1 laptop before stowing it in its kit (#7).  AST remains off.
 
 No CEO (Crew Earth Observations) photo targets uplinked for today. 
 
 CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website:
 <a href="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov">http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov</a>  &lt;<a href="http://">http://</a>eol.jsc.nasa.gov/&gt;  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).
 
 

