ISS On-Orbit Status 01/19/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 FE-4 Kotov began his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator.    [The filters were installed by Maxim Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 CDR Williams &amp; FE-6 Creamer continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), donning their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 At wake-up, TJ Creamer started his FD30 (Flight Day 30) session of the Pro K protocol, his second onboard run, performing the first urine pH spot test and later logging his diet intact of today.    [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]
 
 After completing the first parts yesterday, the FE-6 took up the next part (3<sup>rd</sup> of 5) of the periodic acoustic measurement protocol by recording post-sleep data of the crew-worn acoustic dosimeters, later deploying the dosimeters statically (Part 4), one at the SM (Service Module) Central Post, one in Node-2 and the third in an empty rack bay in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), away from air flow, taking photographs of the locations.  Tonight (~2:30pm EST), TJ will record the data taken by the three static dosimeters during the day (Part 5).   [Acoustic data must be taken twice per Increment, each time for the duration of the 16-hour crew workday.] 
 
 Max Suraev spent ~1h in the Soyuz TMA-16/20A at the SM (Service Module) aft port, working with the ground to conduct a hot firing test of the Soyuz SUD/MCS (Motion Control System) thrusters, preparatory to the 20S relocation to the MRM2 Poisk module on 1/21 (Thursday).     [For the SUD test, which was successful, the ISS was briefly put into free drift (6:08am-6:33am EST), after attitude control handover to Russian MCS at 6:00am.  Control returned to US momentum management at 7:10am.  The protective shutters of the Lab and Kibo JPM (LEM Pressurized Module) science windows were closed before the firing by Soichi Noguchi.]
 
 For the duration of the firing test, Creamer installed the alignment guides on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab to protect the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) and afterwards removed them again to allow ground operations of the FCF (Fluids &amp; Combustion Facility) requiring a microgravity environment.
 
 Suraev &amp; Williams, who will fly the spacecraft relocation, went through a 3-hr rehearsal of the flight in a formal training/drill comprising a procedures review, flight data review, tag-up with ground instructor and onboard simulator training on the RSK1 laptop.    [Mission events will be tied to RSG (Russian Groundsite) comm windows.  Soyuz activation is scheduled on 1/21 on DO12 (Daily Orbit 12), followed by hatch closure on DO14 and undocking from the SM AO on DO1.  Physical separation takes place at ~5:03am with a pushrod delta-V of ~0.12 m/s, in sunshine.  Flyaround to the MRM2 +Y port, starting at ~5:09 am, will be at a range of 30-50m from the station, ending at station-keeping (~5:13am).  Final approach begins at ~5:20am, concluding with contact &amp; capture at ~5:25am.  Orbital sunset is at 5:34am (sunrise at 6:06am).]
 
 Also for the spacecraft relocation, Kotov &amp; Suraev continued preparations of the MRM2, mating hard-line (MBS) communications connections and performing checkouts of MRM2 Channel 1 comm systems (VSB-95).     [Functional tests included indicators, speakers and microphones for calls between MRM2 and the SM.]
 
 The FE-6 had an additional 2 hrs for internal preparations of the MRM2 for the relocation, the first spacecraft docking for the new module.
 
 Oleg also used the Russian MBI biological protection kit, with gloves, respirator, surface wipes and dry wipes, to clean and disinfect the platform unit used for mounting the Biorisk-MSN payload with microorganisms-materials, removed from its external DC1 location during the recent EVA-24.
 
 CDR Williams cleared space in Node-2 for the subsequent CBCS (Centerline Berthing Camera System) installation by moving a stowage bag with empty CWC-I (Collapsible Water Container-Iodine) units to the Node-2 forward endcone.
 
 FE-5 Noguchi later installed and checked out the CBCS on the Node-2 zenith hatch where it will support the PMA-3 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 3) relocation.     [PMA-3 will be relocated on 1/23 (Saturday) from Node-1 port to Node-2 zenith.]
 
 In an IFM (in-flight maintenance) on the SM’s condensate water processor (SRVK-2M) deferred from yesterday, Oleg changed out its water-conditioning unit’s purification columns (BK BKV) with a new spare.  The old unit was stowed for disposal.     [Before the replacement, Kotov filled up a KPV potable water container for using in the BRP-M (modified water distribution &amp; heating unit).  The SRV-K2M, with its BKO multifiltration unit, converts collected condensate into drinking water by removing dissolved mineral and organic impurities from the condensate.  Downstream from it the condensate water is treated in the BKV water conditioning unit with salts for taste and silver ions for preservation, before it flows to the KPV potable water container from which the reclaimed water is dispensed warm or hot for drinking and preparation of food and beverages.]
 
 Noguchi &amp; Creamer conducted the first onboard Hair experiment, with Soichi taking hair samples of TJ, then inserting them into MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) at -95 degC and closing out the activity.
 
 The FE-1 completed the periodic service of downloading data files from the BU (Control Unit) of the running BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment in the SM for archiving on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinking NIKON D2X photographs of the growing plants in the LADA greenhouse.    [The archiving can take up to 5 hrs.  Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-16 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP), currently planted with Mizuna seeds.  Mizuna (Brassica rapa nipposinica) is a tasty variety of Japanese mustard greens, also known as California Peppergrass, eaten as a salad.] 
 
 In the SM Zvezda module, the FE-4 did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-6 Creamer inspected and cleaned the RGSH (Return Grid Sensor Housing) in the port cone/deckside location, opening its cover and using the vacuum cleaner on its internal sensors and brackets, then retrieving an SD (smoke detector) mounting clamp and pre-positioning it over the RGSH cover.
 
 In the Kibo laboratory, FE-5 Noguchi removed the MI (Marangoni Inside) Body for subsequent stowage, closing out the MS MWA I/F (Maintenance Work Area Interface) A and I/F B.
 
 Using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), Soichi performed the periodic WRS (Water Recovery System) sample analysis, after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.    [After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]
 
 Williams, Creamer &amp; Noguchi conducted a 1-hr review of the STS-130/20A EVAs next month, followed by preparing tools and equipment for the spacewalks.     [The tool configuration activities, scheduled on several days, started yesterday.]
 
 At ~9:05am EST, Jeff, TJ &amp; Soichi also conducted a 30-min audio/teleconference with ground specialists to discuss 20A EVA tasks.
 
 At ~7:05am, Noguchi supported a JAXA TV downlink event with Kushiro Children's Museum/Rikubetsu Observatory in Hokkaido, Japan.
 
 CDR, FE-1 &amp; FE-4 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Jeff at ~12:35pm, Maxim at ~12:50pm, Oleg at ~1:10pm EST.
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-5), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 MT Translation:   At 11:30am-1:00pm, the Mobile Transporter was moved by ground commanding from WS-5 (Worksite 5) to WS-4.  Thrusters were disabled during the move due to load constraints.
 
 WPA Update:   Conclusions from the recent the recent Reverse Flush procedure on the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) are that, despite flawless execution, it did not achieve the hoped-for removal of the suspected blockage between the Waste Water ORU and the MLS (Mostly Liquid Separator).  WPA remains nonfunctional until the MLS can be replaced along with a new filter installed as well, which cannot be done until at least FD5 of STS-130/20A.  Until WPA is restored, water will be supplied by the WDS (Water Delivery System) to PWD (Potable Water Dispenser), WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) or OGS (Oxygen Generator System) from condensate collecting in the Lab Condensate Tank, offloaded by the crew periodically into CWCs. 
 
 No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.]
 
 
