
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom 3 Launch:
SpaceX Crew Dragon Freedom successfully launched at 3:49 PM CST today from LC-39A at the Kennedy Space Center. Rendezvous and docking with the ISS is scheduled for 4:15 AM CST on Saturday, January 21st. With the arrival of the four private astronauts, Michael Lopez-Alegria, Walter Villadei, Alper Gezeravci, and Marcus Wandt, the ISS onboard crew complement will increase to 11. The arrival of the Ax-3 crew enables two weeks of PAM-related utilization and outreach activities.
Payloads:
Fluid Dynamics in Space (FLUIDICS): The FLUIDICS hard drives were connected to the CMAU laptop. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
Plant Habitat-06: The crew performed the 2nd and 3rd harvests of Solanum Lycopersicum (Tomato) leaves and prepared them for return. The Effect of Spaceflight and Simulated Microgravity on Plant Defense Responses (Plant Habitat-06) experiment investigates the physiological and genetic responses to defense activation and immune system function in tomatoes during spaceflight. Genetic sequencing and analysis indicates that plants exhibit an adaptive defense response rather than the initial defensive response. A better understanding of how microgravity affects plant immune function is needed to support plant growth and food production on future space missions.
Plant Water Management 5 and 6: The crew performed root test model operations to imitate various absorption rates and plant sizes with the Plant Water Management 5 hardware. Providing adequate water and nutrition to plants grown in space is affected by the absence or decreased presence of gravity. Plant Water Management 5 and 6 plan to demonstrate how physical properties of fluids, such as surface tension and wetting, are viable mechanisms to provide hydration and aeration to plants being grown in environments of varying gravity.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): In-flight Microbiology Water analysis and data recording was performed on the GMT 016 sample. An on-orbit PWD, launched in fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. A new system, the xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the ISS crew.
Systems:
Ultrasound 2 Exam: Today, the crew used the ultrasound device to perform a Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) scan. This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams.
Coliform Water Sample Analysis: The crew completed post-processing analysis of the Coliform detection bags. The water samples were acquired on Monday and allowed to incubate to check for the presence of Coliform bacteria. Following the incubation period, the crew visually analyzed the Coliform detection bags and recorded the results. Visual confirmation must be performed within 40-48 hours of the initial sample collection.
Node 1 Zenith (N1Z) Dome Depressurization: Today, the crew completed all necessary setup in preparation for the depressurization of the N1Z Dome. The ground then commanded the dome depressurization. Following the completion of the crew day, ground teams will perform a leak check of the N1Z Dome using the Pressure Management Device (PMD). This activity is being completed to test the integrity of the hatch seals following recent stowage reconfigurations.
Node 2 Forward Hatch Open and Close: Today, the crew opened the Node 2 Forward Hatch. Ground teams then cycled the air to remove any stagnant air that was trapped behind the hatch. The crew then closed the Node 2 Forward hatch. This sequence of activities were completed in preparation for the docking of the Axiom-3 Crew Dragon, which is currently scheduled for January 20th at 4:15 AM CT.
