
Ants In Space Experiment:  After setting up cameras to record the experiment, Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio and FE-3 Hopkins set up 2 of the 8 ant forage habitats and then open doors to release ants into the forage areas.  This experiment uses the Pavement Ant (Tetramorium Caespitum), which is common throughout most of the United States.  The experiment is being conducted as part of the Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus (CGBA) Science Insert (CSI) program conducted by BioServe Space Technologies and sponsored in part by NASA and the Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS).  Classrooms across the country and the world are invited to participate in this program by conducting their own classroom controls.  The curriculum is developed by the Baylor College of Medicine Center for Education Outreach.  Results of the experiment will indicate if ants will take straighter paths in the larger space and if they adjust their paths differently in microgravity, when their contact with each other may be disrupted by the absence of gravity.
NanoRacks Module 9:  FE-6 Wakata activated and shook designated NanoRacks Module 9 mixing tubes.  This investigation results from a commercial Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education program overseen by the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE), called the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP). Student teams from across the United States design their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. The investigation consists of different science experiments flown in a NanoRacks Module on board the ISS.
NanoRacks Microscope Operation with Module-38:  Wakata used Microscope-2 to perform microscopic analysis of the NanoRacks Module-38 Petri Dishes.  These Module-38 experiments are designed by students as part of a competition sponsored by the International Space School Educational Trust (ISSET).  This particular experiment examines three-dimensional growth of slime mold in petri dishes utilizing the NanoRacks Microscopes Facility.
Reversible Figures Experiment:  FE-3 Hopkins performed his fifth session of the Reversible Figures experiment in free floating conditions and Wakata completed his third session. Each subject performs this activity at least four times during their stay on board.  ESA’s Reversible Figures experiment investigates whether the perception of ambiguous perspective reversible figures that can normally be seen to change in perspective or orientation is affected by microgravity.  A comparison will be made of the perceived reversals during visualization of the figures in crewmembers that occurs before, during and after long-term exposure to microgravity.   It is expected that measurable, perceptual differences will provide insight into human cognitive-perception dynamics in the microgravity environment of the ISS and in normal gravity on Earth.
Emergency Procedure Review: All six crew members took part in an onboard training session to review Cygnus emergency procedures.
Cygnus Cargo Operations: All three USOS crew members continued cargo transfer operations. They reported working a combined total of 8 hours of cargo transfer between yesterday and today.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS, released Latching End Effector (LEE)-A from the Orbital-1 Cygnus Power and Video Grapple Fixture (PVGF) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to position LEE-A such that it was facing the Cupola windows.  FE-5 Mastracchio then took photos of the SSRMS LEE-A snare cables from Cupola window 3.  The team then walked the SSRMS off the Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) onto the Lab PDGF and maneuvered the SSRMS to position LEE-B such that it is facing the Cupola windows.  Wakata is scheduled to take photos of the SSRMS LEE-B snare cables tomorrow, January 14th.

