
Fluid Shifts Before, During and After Prolonged Space Flight and Their Association with Intracranial Pressure and Visual Impairment (Fluid Shifts):   Kelly continued his Return minus 45 day (R-45) Fluid Shifts activities today in the Russian Segment with assistance from Kornienko and Volkov and guidance from the ground team.   He performed Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) and Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE) tests, and a Tonometry exam.  He also completed the part of the experiment utilizing the Russian Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure – LBNP) suit during ultrasound measurements.  Fluid Shifts investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention.  Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
 
Sprint Ultrasound:  Kopra performed his Flight Day 30 thigh and calf ultrasound scans today with assistance from Peake and guidance from the Sprint ground team.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of the long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
 
Fine Motor Skills:  Kopra completed a session of the Fine Motor Skills experiment today.  During the experiment he performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:   Yesterday afternoon, ground controllers successfully performed a periodic survey of the Space Communications and Navigation (SCaN) Testbed Experiment on ExPRESS Logistics Carrier (ELC)-3.  Once the survey was complete, they commanded a Mobile Transporter (MT) translation from Worksite (WS)-7 to WS-2. The move was required in order to provide camera support during Friday’s Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) 1B Extravehicular Activity (EVA) and to preposition the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) for next week’s Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) demonstration activity.
 
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Cargo Operations:  Kelly, Kopra, and Peake continued transferring cargo from Cygnus to ISS today. Approximately 33 hours of cargo operations remain.
 
Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) Training:  The 45S Crew (Malenchenko, Kopra, and Peake) participated in medical contingency training.  This on-board training provides crewmembers the opportunity to work as a team in resolving a simulated medical emergency.  The training also allows the crew to practice communication and coordination necessary to perform medical emergency procedures.  They located medical emergency procedures and appropriate Health Maintenance System (HMS) components utilized during an emergency and determined the deployed configuration.  Finally, they reviewed individual methods of CPR delivery in micro-gravity.
 

