ISS On-Orbit Status 01/16/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Sunday – Crew rest day.   Ahead: Week 9 of Increment 26.
 
 FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dima will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 FE-5 Nespoli retrieved &amp; stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies, deployed by him on 1/14 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.      [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]
 
 FE-1 Kaleri had another 2 hrs for final loading operations on Progress 39P, stowing trash and excessed equipment for disposal.
 
 In the DC-1 (Docking Compartment), FE-2 Skripochka terminated the discharge process on the first 825M3 Orlan battery pack in the ZU-S recharge unit.
 
 Oleg also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module).     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 Shortly before bedtime, Nespoli will prepare the diet log for his upcoming first six-day SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) session, which entails a series of diet intake loggings, body mass measurements and blood &amp; urine samplings in two session blocks.  (Deferred from 1/14.)       [SOLO, a NASA/ESA-German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 &amp; MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]
 
 Before sleeptime, Dmitri sets up the Russian MBI-12 payload and start his 3<sup>rd</sup> Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 CDR, FE-4, FE-5 &amp; FE-6 were scheduled for their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Dima at ~7:30am, Paolo at ~5:30am, Scott at ~11:35am, Cady at ~4:15pm EST.
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).     [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 At ~1:15pm EST, Sasha, Oleg &amp; Dima are to conduct a Russian PAO TV event, reading aloud and answering questions from the children of Kirov District and a Kirov TV journalist, as per request of Roskosmos.
 
 No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded today.
 
 
