
Payloads:
Advanced Nano Step: The Advanced Nano Step experiment return bag was transferred to a MERLIN unit in preparation for return to the ground for analysis. Advanced Nano Step, more formally known as Effects of Impurities on Perfection of Protein Crystals, Partition Functions, and Growth Mechanisms, monitors and records how the incorporation of specific impurity molecules affect the development and quality of protein crystals. The crystals grown on the ISS are returned to Earth, and characterized using synchrotron X-ray diffraction. The investigation seeks to improve on the quality and success rate of crystals grown in microgravity.
EasyMotion with Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): After donning the EasyMotion Suit, the crew performed a CEVIS exercise science session.  Following the experiment session, the crew removed the suit, transferred the session data, and charged the experiment batteries.  The EasyMotion investigation uses whole body Electro-Myo-Stimulation (EMS) with a wearable body skin suit for an ISS crew member to perform pre- and postflight EMS-assisted exercises. EMS technology initiates spontaneous (involuntary) activation of global musculature (muscle, tendon, fascia) to be monitored (muscle tone/tension and stiffness) inflight using the non-invasive Myoton technology that is currently aboard the space station for the Myotones investigation.
Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM): Following the robotic transfer of the ExHAM hardware to the JEM airlock slide table, and passing the ExHAM through the airlock to the pressurized ISS volume, the samples were detached and prepared for return to the ground. Taking advantage of Kibo’s unique function of having both an airlock and a robotic arm on the ISS, the ExHAM facility enables space experiments to be performed in the exposed space environment, by attachment to the JEM Exposed Facility.
Microbial Tracking-3 (MT-3): Samples were gathered for the final of five consecutive days in support of the MT-3 experiment. Sample locations included various one square meter areas of Node 3, Node 2, Node 1, PMM, and the US Lab. The Quantifying Selection for Pathogenicity and Antibiotic Resistance in Bacteria and Fungi on the ISS – a Microbial Tracking Study (Microbial Tracking-3 or MT-3) investigation continues a series focused on ongoing monitoring of pathogenicity (ability to cause disease) and antibiotic resistance in potentially disease-causing bacteria and fungi present on the ISS. The investigation aims to identify, analyze, and characterize pathogenicity, antibiotic resistance, and genomics to augment the NASA GeneLab with the statistical confidence to characterize microbes associated with closed habitation and predict those that may pose a threat to crew health.
Mochii: Following the removal of sample 6, the crew used the metal-coating capability of the Mochii to coat sample 4 and insert it into the sample camber. Later in the day, with ground guidance, the crew performed Mochii sample imaging operations. Mochii is a miniature scanning electron microscope (SEM) with spectroscopy which will be used to conduct real-time, on-site imaging and compositional measurements of particles on the ISS. Such particles can cause vehicle and equipment malfunctions and threaten crew health, but currently, samples must be returned to Earth for analysis, leaving crew and vehicle at risk. Mochii also provides a powerful new analysis platform to support novel microgravity science and engineering.
Space Acceleration Measurement System-II (SAMS-II): The crew deployed a hard-wired SAMS tri-axial sensor head on a location suitable to monitor the four-bed CO2 scrubber unit. Following the sensor installation, the ground was not able to establish good communication with this sensor and is working on the issue. SAMS-II is an ongoing study of the small forces (vibrations and accelerations) on the ISS resulting from the operation of hardware, crew activities, dockings and maneuvering. Results generalize the types of vibrations affecting vibration-sensitive experiments and structural life of ISS. Investigators and Structural Analysts seek to better understand the vibration environment on the ISS using SAMS-II data and assessing station loads and dynamics.
Sampling Quadrangle Assemblages Research Experiment (SQuARE):  Photo framing areas were set up at the appropriate areas in Columbus, JEM, Node1, Node2, and Node3 in preparation for upcoming operations. Squares is an investigation that aims to document items within six defined locations around the ISS over time. The idea is to look at the ISS as an archaeological site, and each of the Squares as a “test pit”.
Systems: 
Lab Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Gas Trap Plug Replacement: The crew reinstalled the Gas Trap Plug on the Lab Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA). The purpose of the Gas Trap Plug is to slow the release of ammonia escaping from the ITCS Gas Trap vent holes into the cabin in the event of an Interface Heat Exchanger (IFHX) breach.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) In Flight Maintenance (IFM): As part of regularly scheduled preventative maintenance, the crew performed a manual WHC flush tank fill.  By using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as the burp, they depressurized the flush water tank and water valve block to protect the dose pump. This pump is critical as it injects the pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.
Eye Exams: The crew completed routine Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; In this case, the objects of interest are the crewmember’s eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board in order to monitor crewmembers eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Cargo Dragon Transfer: In preparation for the SpX-24 Undocking on Friday, January 21, the crew continued transferring cargo to be returned to Earth. SpX-24 will undock from the Node 2 Zenith Port to deliver completed science experiments and equipment for repairs, among other important cargo.

