
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #51: During today’s EVA, the Russian crew worked outside the Multipurpose Laboratory Module (MLM) to complete the below tasks. The USOS crew assisted with the Airlock operations in the Service Module (SM). The following tasks were completed and deferred during the EVA:
Completed:

Installation of NM Handrail Limiters (2 of 5 were completed, remaining deferred)
Removal of MLI Covers from handrails
Mating of NM-MLM KURS-P Intermodule Comm Cables and Remating of Connectors on ФП2 Connector Patch Panel
Installation of АР-ВКА]/[2АР-ВКАand 4АО-ВКА Antennas
Mating of NM-MLM TV Camera Intermodule Comm Cable
Relocation of TV Camera From ТК1 to ТК2 Camera Port
Installation of Docking Target and Docking Monitoring Target
Jettison of 4АО-ВКА Antenna Cover and Two Empty Containers

Deferred:

Installation of MLM-NM (Node Module) Short-Cut Handrails (ПП#1 & ПП#2)
Removal of СМИ-4 Floodlight Unit
Removal and jettison of 2АСФ1-М Antennas #1, #2 and АО-753А Antennas

The PET of this EVA was 7 hours and 11 minutes.
Payloads:
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM): The crew performed a routine status check on the APM experiment hardware. Following several power-cycles and memory card resets, the memory card and APM were brought to a nominal state. Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. The APM demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
International Commercial Experiment (ICE)-Cubes: The crew removed Experiment Cube #6 (Kirara 3) and installed Experiment Cube #10. Ice Cubes Experiment Cube #6 (Kirara mission) contains an incubator and temperature controller and is used to allow protein crystallization to happen in microgravity under a well-maintained temperature inside the cube. The ICE Cubes Facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration or educational objectives. During flight, users are able to have near real-time telemetry and telecommanding capabilities with the Experiment Cube from any location with an internet connection.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The crew gained access to the furnace area, removed the processed sample, and inserted the next Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions (MICAST) Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) to be processed. The MICAST experiment aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys.
Nanoracks Cubesat Deployer-22 (NRCSD-22): The crew installed the NRCSD-22 hardware to the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table. The hardware will later be passed through the JEMAL, grappled robotically, and moved to a launch position. The NRCSD is a self-contained CubeSat deployer system that mechanically and electrically isolates CubeSats and has been in operation since 2014. Five satellites will be deployed for the NRCSD-22 mission, with goals of studying the use of inflatable booms, a miniaturized LIDAR system, passive cooling using surface coatings, etc.
Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (DREAMS): Following the overnight science session, the DREAMS hardware was removed and charged in preparation for another over-night science collection session. Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep, or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance. DREAMS is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the ISS.
Space Test Program-H5-Innovative Coatings Experiment (STP-H5 ICE): Using the Cupola and JEM windows, the crew took the periodic photos of all four ICE material strips on STP-H5. The harsh radiation and extreme temperatures of space can corrode the paint and coatings that protect spacecraft exteriors, potentially damaging a spacecraft’s hull. Optical coatings are also important for robotic and human navigators, who would rely on specialized markings to capture or repair spacecraft. STP-H5 ICE studies new coatings for use on spacecraft in low-Earth orbit, determining their stability after 2 years in space.
Touching Surfaces: The crew performed a periodic touching of the Touch Arrays which are deployed in five different locations in the US segment of ISS. Previous space research conducted during short-term flight experiments and long-term environmental monitoring on board orbiting space stations (such as MIR or the ISS) suggests that the relationship between humans and microbes is altered in the crewed habitat in space. This interdisciplinary project Touching Surfaces aims to investigate novel, laser-structured antimicrobial surfaces onboard the ISS. The realistic testing of the tailor-made nanostructured antimicrobial surface in space allows for the determination of the most suitable design for antimicrobial surfaces for terrestrial applications such as public transportation and clinical settings, as well as future human space mission and habitation design.
Systems: 
Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo transfer operations by loading cargo into Cargo Dragon in preparation for SpX-24 undock on Friday, January 21. Crewmembers also performed an On-Board Training (OBT) Cargo Dragon Departure Review.
Polar Express Rack Dragon Installation: Polar is a Cold Stowage managed facility that provides transport and storage of science samples at cryogenic temperatures (-80°C) to and from the ISS. Today, in preparation for the SpX-24 undock, the crew first transferred a Polar unit from the Dragon powered payload location to the return Upper Port (UP) powered payload location. A second Polar was then powered down, decabled, and removed from an EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack and installed in the Dragon UP location. The crew powered up both Polar units to maintain the appropriate temperature for the cargo on its return flight and took photos of the final Polar configurations.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Maintenance: The crew completed 6-month routine ARED maintenance tasks including re-torquing the crank handle socket head cap screw and inspecting the heel raise pin and mechanism. ARED helps the astronauts maintain muscle strength and mass by incorporating adjustable resistance piston-driven vacuum cylinders along with a flywheel system to simulate free-weight exercises in normal gravity.

