ISS On-Orbit Status 01/15/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – Crew rest day.
 
 FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dima will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 Scott, Oleg, Alex, Dmitri, Paolo &amp; Cady completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 As part of the uborka house cleaning, Sasha, Oleg &amp; Dima conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille and Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM (Service Module).
 
 Also as part of the crew’s regular morning inspection tour, Kaleri completed the routine checkup of circuit breakers &amp; fuses in the MRM1 Rassvet &amp; MRM2 Poisk research modules.     [The monthly checkup in the DC-1 (Docking Compartment), MRM1 &amp; MRM2 looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 &amp; BPP-36.  MRM2 &amp; MRM1 were derived from the DC-1 concept and are very similar to it.]
 
 FE-6 Cady Coleman conducted her 2<sup>nd</sup> (FD30) HRF (Human Research Facility) Generic 24-hr urine collection period, with samples deposited in MELFI.     [The operational products for blood &amp; urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
 In the DC1, FE-2 Skripochka initiated the recharge process on the first 825M3 Orlan battery pack in the ZU-S recharge unit for EVA-27.
 
 FE-2 also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 Time again for the recharge of the Motorola Iridium-9505A satellite phones in the Soyuz Descent Modules: completed by Dmitri Kondratyev for TMA-20/25S (#230, at MRM1) and by Alex Kaleri for TMA-01M/24S (#701, docked at MRM2), a monthly routine job and Dima’s first, Sasha’s 2<sup>nd</sup>.       [After retrieving the phones from their location in the spacecraft Descent Modules (SA, spuskayemyy apparat), the crewmembers initiated the recharge of the lithium-ion batteries, monitoring the process every 10-15 minutes as it took place.  Upon completion, the phones were returned inside their SSSP Iridium kits and stowed back in the SA’s ODF (operational data files) container.  The satphone accompanies returning ISS crews on Soyuz reentry &amp; landing for contingency communications with SAR (Search-and-Rescue) personnel after touchdown (e.g., after an “undershoot” ballistic reentry, as happened during the 15S return).  The Russian-developed procedure for the monthly recharging has been approved jointly by safety officials.  During the procedure, the phone is left in its fire-protective fluoroplastic bag with open flap.  The Iridium 9505A satphone uses the Iridium constellation of low-Earth orbit satellites to relay the landed Soyuz capsule's GPS (Global Positioning System) coordinates to helicopter-borne recovery crews.  The older Iridium-9505 phones were first put on board Soyuz in August 2003.  The newer 9505A phone, currently in use, delivers 30 hours of standby time and three hours of talk, up from 20 and two hours, respectively, on the older units.]
 
 Working in the Soyuz 25S spacecraft, Kondratyev &amp; Kaleri continued troubleshooting activities on the GA/gas analyzer in the SA/Descent Module.    [The troubleshooting is to determine why the SA continues to blow power line fuses.  Dmitri &amp; Alex used the Elektronika MultiMeter MMTs-01 instrument to take voltage measurements on the GA power circuits. ] 
 
 Alex conducted final loading operations on Progress 39P, today stowing US trash transferred earlier by Cady Coleman.
 
 Cady meanwhile responded to a late US tool request for the Russian EVA-27, readying one additional tool caddy (which makes for a total of 3 caddies).    [This was a late request from the Russians and it is needed for the Orlan configuration on Monday.]
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).     [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 At ~3:55am EST, Paolo powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 4:00am conducted a ham radio session with students at Istituto Comprensivo Via Toscana 2 Civitavecchia, Roma, Italy.
 
 At ~9:05am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 At ~9:50am, Alex, Oleg &amp; Dmitri engaged in a PAO phone interview via S-band with Ekaterina Beloglazova, Editor of Rossiyskiy Kosmos Magazine and an old friend of ISS cosmonauts.     
 
 At ~10:15am, Nespoli &amp; Coleman had an audio/teleconference with ground specialists to discuss the details of the proposed HTV2 Grapple Practice #3 for the robotics SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System).
 
 
