
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  The crew continued with preparations for the second Battery Upgrade EVA. Today, the crew utilized Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software to review the translation paths during the upcoming EVA, followed by a conference with ground specialists to answer any questions. Ground teams continued to monitor the discharge of the Channel 1A batteries.  The second of the two EVAs to replace the Channel 1A/3A batteries is scheduled Friday, January 13th.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday and overnight (GMT 009-010), the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body and Arm2 as required to unstow the Lithium-Ion (Li-Ion) battery from slot E of the H-II Transfer Vehicle 6 (HTV6) Exposed Pallet (EP) and installed it in slot 5 of the 1A Integrated Electronics Assembly (IEA).   They then removed the 1A-1 NiH2 battery from its slot on the 1A IEA and stowed it in slot C of the HTV6 EP.  Next they unstowed the Li-Ion battery from slot D of the HTV6 EP and installed it in slot 1 of the 1A IEA.  Finally the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS and SPDM to a park position.
Multi-Omics Collections: This morning the crew performed sampling in support of the JAXA Multi-Omics experiment. Various samples were collected and stowed in MELFI four times throughout the crew’s on-orbit duration in addition to a questionnaire and ingestion of fructooligosaccharide (FOS). The objective of Multi-Omics is to understand the gut ecosystem of astronauts in the space environment, especially focusing on the immune dysfunction, and to evaluate the impact of fructooligosaccharide (FOS). 
Lighting Effects Meter Reading: Today the crew setup and configured the Light Meter hardware and took readings in various locations across the ISS.  The measurements were taken using light from the legacy General Luminaire Assemblies (GLAs), the upgraded Solid State Lighting Assemblies (SSLAs), ambient light from the Cupola, and a dark reading with lights off in a specified module.  The Lighting Effects experiment hopes to better quantify and qualify how lighting can effect habitability of spacecraft. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights. 
Human Research Collections: A crewmember performed Flight Day 60 urine collections in support of several Human Research experiments today. Samples for the Biochemical Profile, Repository, and Cardio Ox were collected and stowed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. Cardio Ox determines whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. 

