
USOS Food Warmer Status: Yesterday the Express Rack 6 Solid State Power Control Module (SSPCM) to the USOS Food Warmer experience an over current trip.  The ground teams continue to investigate the failure, in the meantime the crew has deployed a spare USOS food warmer in the Lab.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Zero Robotics Competition:  Mastracchio and Kotov conducted the Zero Robotics High School 2013 Final Competition utilizing the SPHERES satellites onboard the ISS.  As part of the competition, high school students from the United States and Europe wrote algorithms for the SPHERES satellites to accomplish tasks relevant to future space missions. The algorithms were then tested by the SPHERES team and the 45 best designs were selected for the competition.  The competition was downlinked live and recorded in 3 dimensions (3-D) with the onboard 3DA1 camera.  The winner of the European competition was team C.O.F.F.E.E and for the United States was “yObOtics! Gru Eagles”.
Aniso Tubule Preparation for Microscope Observation:  FE-6 Wakata activated and prepared the Multi Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) fluorescent microscope for observation of an Aniso Tubule sample.   He then retrieved the sample from the Cell Biology Experiment Unit (CBEF) where it is being cultivated, and place it on the microscope for 48 hour observation.  The Aniso Tubule experiment investigates the roles of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins in gravity-induced growth modification of plant stems.
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Laptop Deployment: Wakata deployed a new OCT Laptop.  Two new OCT Laptops arrived on Orbital-1 as a replacement to the T61p Alternate Station Computer (ASC) laptops, which was previously used for vision testing.  It is expected that the combination of the upgraded laptop hardware and the newer operating system will provide an increase in performance for OCT scans. The first scheduled use of the new OCT laptop is Hopkins vision test on Monday.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Functional Cargo Block (FGB) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) Grapple:  Ground controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and then maneuver the SSRMS to the FGB PDGF grapple position.  The ground controller did grapple the FGB PDGF for the first time, however the electrical checkout is planned for next week.

