ISS On-Orbit Status 01/25/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    
 
 FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dmitri will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 At wake-up, FE-1 Kaleri terminated his 9<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
 CDR Kelly continued another week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 7<sup>th</sup> session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 Kaleri demated/remated BITS2-12 onboard telemetry connectors, supported by ground specialist tagup.
 
 Then, Alex relocated the ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) hand controller in the SM (Service Module) to provide access to the TORU panel.
 
 In preparation of Progress M-09M/41P docking on 1/29, Kaleri &amp; Skripochka went through the standard 3-hr refresher training for the TORU teleoperator system, which provides a manual backup mode to the Progress’ KURS automated rendezvous radar system.  A tagup with a TORU instructor at TsUP/Moscow via S-band audio supported the training.       [The drill included procedure review, rendezvous, docking data and rendezvous math modeling data review, fly-around, final approach, docking and off-nominal situations (e.g., video or comm loss).  Three different flight conditions were simulated on the RSK1 laptop.  The TORU teleoperator control system lets a SM-based crewmember perform the approach and docking of automated Progress vehicles in case of KURS failure.  During spacecraft approach, TORU is in “hot standby” mode.  Receiving a video image of the approaching ISS, as seen from a Progress-mounted docking television camera (“Klest”), on a color monitor (“Simvol-Ts”, i.e. “symbol center”) which also displays an overlay of rendezvous data from the onboard digital computer, the CDR would steer the Progress to mechanical contact by means of two hand controllers, one for rotation (RUO), the other for translation (RUD), on adjustable armrests.  The controller-generated commands are transmitted from the SM's TORU control panel to the Progress via VHF radio.  In addition to the Simvol-Ts color monitor, range, range rate (approach velocity) and relative angular position data are displayed on the “Klest-M” video monitor (VKU) which starts picking up signals from Progress when it is still approximately 8 km away.  TORU is monitored in real time from TsUP over Russian ground sites (RGS) and via Ku-band from Houston, but its control cannot be taken over from the ground.   On 10/30, Progress KURS-A (active) will be activated at 11:06am EDT on Daily Orbit 1 (DO1), SM KURS-P (passive) two minutes later.  Progress video will be switched on at a range of ~9 km, Progress floodlight at ~8 km.  Progress TORU will activate at 3 km range.  Flyaround to the DC1 nadir port (~400 m range, in sunlight) starts at 12:17:28pm, followed by station keeping at 170m at ~12:24:40pm.  Start of final approach: ~12:28:30pm (DO2) in sunlight, contact: ~12:39:30pm.  SM Kurs-P deactivation on mechanical capture.  Sunset: 12:29pm.]
 
 Sasha Kaleri took the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, spending ~90 min on the TVIS treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.      [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmember rests for 5 min., then works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h for 2 min, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h for 1 min, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace to 3.5 km/h].
 
 The six-member crew joined for the important 2-hr Crew Safety OBT (Onboard Training), to familiarize them with procedures and escape routes in case of a toxic spill or fire emergency, and to clarify emergency roles &amp; responsibilities.  A 20-min ground specialist tagup wrapped up the obligatory session.      [Safety is of primary concern on board.  Safety Handover includes safety-related items such as (1) emergency actions, equipment and individual crew roles &amp; responsibilities for the four hazard areas (depressurization, fire, ammonia release, non-ammonia toxic release), (2) visiting vehicles docking/undocking, (3) evacuation vehicles, (4) crew life support system status, (5) computers, (6) communications, (7) medical equipment &amp; provisions, (8) stowage, (9) IVA hazards (e.g., sharp edges, protrusions, touch temperatures) and (10) stowage and current hardware status.  Aboard the station are 2 potential sources of Toxic Level 4-chemicals (external thermal loops; Vozdukh) and 7 Tox-2 sources such as Elektron, METOX cans, LiOH cans and batteries.  Prime/non-prime crew roles assignments: the CDR will be responsible for crew headcount; for Fire in the RS (Russian Segment), the three cosmonauts will be prime, i.e. responsible for generally working the response, while Kelly, Coleman &amp; Nespoli would stay in their respective Soyuz vehicles or other safe areas; for Rapid Depress, designated crewmembers would calculate the all-important T.res (remaining time), manipulate valves &amp; hatches, run procedures &amp; coordinate communications; for a Toxic Leak (ammonia), each crewmember is assigned specific tasks in retrieving respirators, detection kits, Sokol suits, go-to locations, etc.  Soyuz vehicle preparations for descent could be required very quickly.]
 
 Scott &amp; Cady undertook a training session using the ROBoT Simulator for running HTV EP (H-II Transfer Vehicle Exposed Platform) transfer runs and simulating a malfunction case.
 
 FE-4 conducted the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the “bake-out” cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated at ~4:15pm EST before sleep time.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 1/3-4.)]
 
 FE-6 Coleman conducted the T+5 day visual microbial (bacterial &amp; fungal) analysis &amp; data recording of surface &amp; air samples collected by her and Scott on 1/20 in Lab, SM, Node-1, Node-3 &amp; Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) with the Microbiology SSK (Surface Sampling Kit) and MAS (Microbial Air Sampler).    [The colony growth on the sampling slides is inspected visually after five days of incubation, using a special procedure to analyze the SSK media slides for bacterial &amp; fungal colony growths.]
 
 The six crewmembers worked out with an abbreviated physical exercise regimen on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 HTV2 Flight Day 3 Summary:    Yesterday at 2::41:06pm EST, HTV successfully performed a nominal MD2 burn with a retrograde delta-V of 0.37 m/s (using RCS thrusters).  This was a minor phasing adjustment.  The next scheduled burn was PCM1 at 25/11:14:53am.  As of 24/5:00pm, HTV is approximately 9100 km behind and 39 km below ISS.
 
 

