
USOS Food Warmer Troubleshooting: On January 16th, the Express Rack 6 drawer in which the Lab Food Warmer resides, experienced an over current condition. Since then, the crew had been using a degraded Food Warmer within the Lab. Today, Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins replaced a damaged cabled associated with the non-degraded warmer then performed a successful activation and checkout. The warmer is now operating nominally.
Ocular Health (OH) Cardiac and Ocular Ultrasounds: FE-5 Mastracchio and FE-6 Wakata assisted Hopkins in preparation for conducting ocular and cardiac ultrasound scans as part of Hopkins’ Flight Day 120 OH session.  Remote guidance was provided by ground experts to ensure proper positioning and data collection. These ultrasounds are used to identify changes in ocular globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
ENERGY (Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight):  Hopkins continued with his standardized diet protocol for a 10 day session of ESA’s ENERGY experiment.  Today he performed a urine collection and will log all food and drink consumed.  A loss in an astronauts’ body mass is common during space flight.  ENERGY measures changes in the energy balance in crewmembers as a result of long term space flight.  It also measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers, so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge contributes to optimal crew health and performance, overall mission success, and to adequate exercise loading and food allotments while the crew is on-orbit.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo Test:  Mastracchio and Wakata set up cameras and performed the second of three test runs for Increments 37 and 38.  The Vertigo investigation uses the SPHERES facility free-flying satellites to demonstrate and test, in a complex environment, enhanced technologies and techniques related to visual inspection and navigation.  Vertigo hardware and software enables multiple SPHERES to construct three dimensional (3D) models of a target object and then explore how well the SPHERES free-flyers perform relative navigation solely by reference to these 3D models.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Tank Remove and Replace (R&R): Hopkins performed routine maintenance on the WHC by preparing a new Pre-Treat Tank for installation then performed a tank R&R. Once the tank was replaced, he activated WHC and performed a visual leak check of the newly installed tank and hose. During this time, Hopkins experienced an issue with the WHC Dose Pump and was unable to clear a quality indicator light.  Bubbles were reported in the line and the pre-treat colorization was not consistent with what was expected.  The crew subsequently worked with ground specialist in order to replace the Dose pump. Today’s activity was followed by a successful functionality test.

