
ISS HAM pass:  On Wednesday, the crew participated in two ISS HAM passes.  The first was Morita Junior High School, Fukui, Japan and some of the questions included the effects of heating water in space, what happens if an astronaut has a toothache in space, and if the crew has ever had a serious disease in space.  The second contact was with the Ontario Science Centre, Toronto, Canada and some of the questions included if the crew has ever seen any space junk, if food tastes any different in space, and the crew’s perception of the portrayal space in movies.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Probiotics: On Wednesday, the crew performed sampling activities for the ongoing Probiotics investigation.  Some species of harmful bacteria such as Salmonella grow stronger and more virulent in the microgravity environment of space. At the same time, the human immune system is weaker in space, leading to increased health risks. The objective of the Probiotics investigation is to study the impact of continuous consumption of beneficial bacteria (probiotics) on immune function and intestinal microbiota in astronauts in a closed microgravity environment.  The results of this investigation may be used to support improvements in crew members’ intestinal microbiota and their immune function on long-duration space missions. 
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew participated in a crew conference and performed the “day 0” activities for the multi-day CAL R&R.  This included a practice session for fiber optic cable inspection and cleaning, hardware gathering, disconnection of the appropriate sensors, coolant lines, etc.  The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods. 
Vascular Aging: The crew began a 13 hour blood pressure monitoring session in support of the Vascular Aging investigation.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed. 
Systems: 
AMS-02 (Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer) EVA #4 Preparation: Today, the crew continued preparations for the final AMS repair EVA.  Several activities were successfully completed including:  Procedure Review and Conference, Tool Configuration, Robot On-board Training, EMU Long Life Battery (LLB)/Metal Oxide (METOX) Installation, Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Swap and Checkout, POM Battery Charging, Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) Term, LLB Operations Initiation, Station Support Computer (SSC) Relocate, METOX Regen Term, and Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) Checkouts.  Additionally, a nominal Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) 1016 checkout was performed; EMU Data Recorder (EDaR), and Glove Heater functionality was confirmed.
ISS Double Reboost:  Two reboosts using the Progress 74P Mid-Ring thrusters were successfully completed today.  The DC1-Nadir Progress was used since 61S Soyuz is currently docked to SM-Aft. Since the delta-V required for this maneuver was greater than can be achieved with a single burn using the Mid-Ring thrusters, the delta-V was split across two reboosts occurring approximately 2 orbits apart.  This reboost supports Soyuz 59S landing phasing on February 6th.
EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) Radio Frequency (RF) Camera Assembly (ERCA) Troubleshooting:  The crew installed ERCA ID 20 on EMU 3004 and checked it out successfully in preparation for US EVA 64.  This activity was to recover from issues experienced with ERCA ID 11 during Monday’s EVA.
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) High Gas Outlet Pressure:  Early this morning, during a Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) process run, an Error Code was annunciated, “EC 368 High Gas Out Pressure”. The error code was accompanied by a noted slower production rate in urine processing; however, the UPA did complete its process run. Today’s Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA) activities were deferred to give ground teams more time to assess options.

