
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (JSSOD) Install:  Wilmore started the JSSOD activities by reviewing an instructional video on how to install a JSSOD to the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP).  He then extended the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table into the JEM, attached the JSSOD, and proceeded to retract the slide table and close the JEMAL inner hatch.  This JSSOD was delivered to ISS onboard SpaceX-5 and is scheduled for deployment next week on February 5th.
Micro-5:  Virts removed the BioCell habitats from Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus-4 (CGBA-4) and inserted Flatworms Biological Research in Canisters (BRIC’s). The crew also manually changed the setpoint temperature on CGBA-4 to +12C and removed all Micro-5 hardware from CGBA-4, CGBA-6, and CGBA-5. Scan Cams were packed in CGBA-5 for return. Micro-5 investigation aims to better understand the risks of in-flight infections in space explorers during long-term space flight using the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans (roundworm) with the microbe Salmonella typhimurium (causes food poisoning in humans).
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixtures (CSLM)-4:  The sixth sample processing unit (SPU) remains in the hardware as ground teams continue to troubleshoot the processing anomalies.  The fifth SPU is stowed and is available for re-processing at a later time.  CSLM-4 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount (low volume fraction) of tin branch-like (i.e., dendritic) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature (i.e., isothermal) conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.
Microgravity Experiment Research Locker/Incubator (MERLIN):  Cristoforetti replaced desiccant packs (eight) in the MERLIN.
Cloud-Aerosol Transport System (CATS) Status:  Ground controllers powered up the laser as part of the CATS checkout procedure. The Cloud-Aerosol Transport System (CATS) investigation uses a light detection and ranging (LiDAR) system to measure the location, composition and distribution of pollution, dust, smoke, aerosols and other particulates in the atmosphere. CATS is mounted on the Japanese Experiment Module’s Exposed Facility and is used to study the atmospheric constituents that impact global climate. By gaining a better understanding of cloud and aerosol coverage, scientists can create a better model of the Earth’s climate feedback processes. 
Columbus Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Maintenance:   Virts removed an ITCS maintenance canister which was installed on Tuesday, 27 January.  The purpose of the canister is to introduce antimicrobial agent Ortho-Phthalaldehyde (OPA) to the Columbus ITCS in order to maintain water quality.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 Loading:  Cristoforetti continued loading disposal items into ATV-5 today.  ATV-5 undocking is scheduled to occur on 14 February 2015. 
Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) LAS62B_A RPC 07 Trip:  Yesterday evening, the RPC for the Lab Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Nitrogen Introduction Assembly (NIA) vent valve tripped open.  Loss of power to this valve prevents ground commanded or automatic safing by depressing the Lab MTL Internal Thermal Control Systems (ITCS) loop in the case of an ITCS leak.  Crew manipulation can be used as a workaround to accomplish the same depressurization. The trip had no immediate impacts since the Lab ITCS is currently operating off of the Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Pump.   Ground teams later confirmed there was no over current condition and have reclosed the RPC.  This is the same RPC that tripped open on January 21st.

