
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom 3:
The Ax-3 crew completed several live and recorded media outreach events today. Live events included a NASA-sponsored PAO event between Walter Villadei and the Premier of Italy, Giorgia Meloni.  The crew also completed several commercial still imagery activities. Additionally, it was another busy science day for crew, with the crew completing activities associated with a variety of ISS National Lab sponsored payloads including Pranet Algal, Imaging of Lightning and Nighttime phenomena from Space (ILAN-ES), βeta-Amyloid Aggregation, Extremophyte CRISPR, Food Experience, gMETAL, MESSAGE, PROMETEO-II, Smart Flight Suit, VOKALKORD, and UYNA. Marcus Wandt performed multiple ESA sponsored science investigations including Bone Health, Cimon, Virtual Reality On-Board Training 2, Orbital Architecture, Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4), and Sleep in Orbit. The crew also completed several questionnaires for science and nutrition tracking via the EveryWear app. Marcus Wandt received Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) handover training from an ISS crewmember and performed a CEVIS exercise session.
Payloads:
Space Organogenesis: The Organoid Culture Unit was removed from the Confocal Space Microscope. The Development of Advanced 3D Organ Culture System Utilizing the Microgravity Environment (Space Organogenesis) investigation demonstrates growth of organ buds from human stem cells in three-dimensional (3D) cultures in microgravity. Researchers plan to use these cultures to observe growth of the organ buds and analyze changes in gene expression. Cell culture on Earth needs supportive materials or forces to achieve 3D growth, but in microgravity cell cultures likely can expand into three dimensions without those devices.
Beta Amyloid Aggregation (Ax-3): Experiment activities continued with the insertion of the white kit into a Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) to be frozen. The aim of this experiment is to investigate the effects of microgravity on the aggregation of Aβ peptides. This research is important because it could help to identify potential risks for astronauts who spend long periods of time in space. It could also lead to new insights into the mechanisms of Alzheimer’s Disease and other neurodegenerative diseases characterized by protein accumulation, ultimately helping develop new treatments and prevention strategies.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF)/UYNA (Ax-3): The Ax-3 crew transferred the sample holder containing the UYNA experiment samples to the ISS crew, who then gained access to the ELF experiment chamber and installed the sample holder. Innovative Research on Novel Space Alloys (UYNA) investigates the effects of microgravity on medium-entropy and high-entropy alloys to develop new and improved materials. The potential applications of these materials include manufacturing and construction on orbit and reduced gravity environments such as on the Moon and Mars.
Extremophyte Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) (Ax-3): Close-up photos were taken of the plants growing in the experiment petri dishes to document their overall health and growth. Extreme Salt Stress and CRISPR Gene Editing Efficiency in Plants Under Microgravity (Extremophyte CRISPR) tests the salt stress tolerance of two species of plants and examines how microgravity affects the CRISPR gene editing method. Results could lead to the use of these plants and CRISPR to enhance stress resistance in plants intended for use in life support and other systems during future long-duration space missions.
gMETAL (Ax-3): Experiment hardware was set up in the Life Science Glovebox (LSG), and a science session was performed. gMETAL studies two-phase mixing between solid particles and a gaseous medium such as air and carbon dioxide under various gravity levels, with Earth, Moon, and Martian gravity of particular interest. Results will support the design of operational systems for spaceflight, including propulsion.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): To allow continued experiment activities under different conditions, the crew switched the gas supply from neon to argon. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Propolis Effect and Algae (Ax-3): Detailed photos were taken of the algae growing in the six Pranet Algal experiment petri dishes. The Ax-3 crew also took detailed photos of the microbial cultures growing in the Propoli-Pranet experiment petri dishes. Propolis Effect and Algae is the combination of two experiments: Propoli-Pranet and Pranet Algal. Pranet Algal aims to examine the growth of extremophilic microalgae life in temperate conditions such as the space environment and to observe how they react during their growth. This is important because microalgae could not only serve as a source of food but also improve air quality and waste treatment for future space missions and habitation on Mars or the Moon. Propoli-Pranet aims to investigate the effectiveness of propolis extract on bacteria in a microgravity environment. If propolis proves to be similarly effective in microgravity as it was in a previous experiment using propolis antibacterial wipes in microgravity, this could open the door for use of propolis as a natural antibacterial option in space.
PROtezione MEdiata da nanotecnologia antiossidanTE contro danni neuronali nello spaziO II (PROMETEO II) (Ax-3): The twelve Experiment Containers (ECs) were removed from the Kubik facility and transferred to cold stowage to be frozen and preserved for later analysis on the ground. PROMETEO II, also known as Nano Protection, investigates using antioxidant nanoparticles to protect neurons from oxidative stress. Oxidative stress is involved in several diseases on Earth, including Parkinson’s disease, and is the mechanism behind deleterious effects of spaceflight that cause cognitive and behavioral impairment. Results could lead to countermeasures to preserve cognitive and motor functions in space and on Earth.
Sleep in Orbit (Ax-3): Following charging of the batteries, the crew donned the experiment hardware and began an overnight recording session. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep in Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-Electroencephalography (EEG) based sleep monitoring.
Smart Flight Suit (SFS-2) (Ax-3): The crew donned the SFS-2 for a short duration. The goal of this session was to evaluate its comfort, ease of movement, the functionality of the ECG vest and wearable wrist device, and their overall satisfaction with the suit. Smart Flight Suit 2 demonstrates a suit that collects physiological data as its wearer goes about regular daily activities on the ISS. Electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements are taken by the ECG Vest that is worn underneath the SFS. There is also a wearable wrist device integrated into the SFS which measures blood pressure and body temperature. This technology could provide continuous monitoring to help maintain crew health and well-being.
Systems:
Station Support Computer (SSC) 9 and 12 Swap: Today, the crew swapped out the SSC that is located in the SpaceX Crew Dragon Endurance, SSC 9, with SSC 12. SSC 12 was updated with the latest set of procedures this week. This update and swap is completed on a regular basis to ensure that the crew has offline access to all of the most up-to-date procedures in the event of an emergency situation that requires them to shelter in their crew vehicle.
Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection: The crew completed a routine monthly inspection of the AED and its associated consumables. The crew tested batteries and examined the outer AED case and AED Electrodes Kit.
Ultrasound 2 Scan: Today, the crew performed eye exams using ultrasound equipment. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Cygnus Offset Grapple Onboard Training (OBT): In preparation for NG-20 arrival, the crew performed an offset grapple OBT. This training allows the crew to practice taking manual control of the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to capture the NG-20 vehicle and berth it.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Load Cell Swap: The crew swapped out the two ARED load cells in the ARED. This swap was completed to support troubleshooting of off-nominal signatures seen in data while the Exercise Instrumentation Box (EIB) is installed.
Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Heat Exchanger (HX) Coolant Hose Uncoupling: The crew successfully loosened the coolant hose fitting on one of the CCAA HXs on-orbit, breaking ~725 in-lbs of torque. This activity was performed to determine if the CCAA HX is viable to use in an upcoming remove and replace (R&R) activity for the CCAA HX in the US Airlock.
