
Payloads
FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory): The crew removed the RUBI Multi-Scale Boiling experiment container hardware and installed the new Soft Matter Dynamics Container. The FSL is a multiuser facility designed by the European Space Agency (ESA) for conducting fluid physics research in microgravity. It can be operated as a fully automatic or semiautomatic facility and can be controlled onboard by the International Space Station (ISS) crew or from the ground in telescience mode.
Story Time From Space: The crew performed a reading of “Willow the Water Bear” to a live audience as part of the educational STEM and Literacy project. Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the International Space Station (ISS). Crew members read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crew members videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Veg-03:  The crew performed a check and watering of the VEG-03J plants. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. But future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03 uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate Extra Dwarf Pak Choi, Amara Mustard and Red Romaine Lettuce using Seed Film which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing.
ISS HAM: The crew demated the Columbus module ISS Radio Antennas in preparation for upcoming EVA transmission inhibits. ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
CIR-Combustion Integrated Rack – Fluids and Combustion Facility: The crew stowed CIR hardware for return. The Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew continued preparations for the Columbus Upgrades EVA which is planned for tomorrow, January 27th. The crew performed an EVA procedure review, tool audit and configuration and installed batteries into the Portable Grip Tools (PGT). The crew also setup the robotics workstation and configured laptops in support for tomorrow’s EVA. 
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain: Today, the crew set up the recycle tank to drain to a ЕДВ-У. Following the setup the ground performed the tank drain using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, and repositioned the fill/drain valve to fill. The crew also swapped the ЕДВ in the offload ЕДВ spot of the UTS.

