
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom 3:
Outreach and Payload Activities: Today, the Ax-3 crew completed several photo and video activities that will be used for commercial, marketing, media, and outreach activities. The crew also conducted an ESA sponsored ICE Cubes Media Set event between Walter Villadei and Gruppo Villa Maria (GVM) Assistance, a group of medical professionals learning about medicine in space.  In addition, the crew completed a successful Ham Radio Pass with the Gioiosa Marea’s Institute “Anna Rita Sidoti” in Italy. The crew also completed a variety of activities associated with ISS National Lab sponsored payloads including Food Experience, Ready Pasta, Beta Amyloid Aggregation, Cancer in LEO, VOKALKORD, Extremophyte CRISPR, and Pranet Algal. Marcus Wandt performed multiple ESA sponsored investigations including Sleep in Orbit, Surface Avatar, CIMON, PK4, Virtual Reality On-Board Training 2, Orbital Architecture, DOSIS-3D, ICE Cubes Experiment Cube #21, and Bone Health.
Payloads:
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The D2Xs Camera for EarthKAM was configured with the 85mm Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Lens. Not everyone can go to space, but everyone can see Earth from an astronaut’s perspective with the EarthKAM program. Thousands of students can remotely control a digital camera mounted on the ISS, and use it to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges and other interesting features and phenomena. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view Earth from a unique vantage point.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE): The failed igniter tip was replaced to support the upcoming Growth and Extinction Limit (GEL) experiment test runs. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. While SoFIE initially meets the requirements of five investigations, it is intended for use by any researchers who propose related solid combustion studies to NASA in the future.
Beta Amyloid Aggregation (Ax-3): Experiment activities continued with the insertion of the violet kit into a Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) to be frozen. The aim of this experiment is to investigate the effects of microgravity on the aggregation of Aβ peptides. This research is important because it could help to identify potential risks for astronauts who spend long periods of time in space. It could also lead to new insights into the mechanisms of Alzheimer’s Disease and other neurodegenerative diseases characterized by protein accumulation, ultimately helping develop new treatments and prevention strategies.
Cancer in Low Earth Orbit-2 (Ax-3): Experiment samples were loaded in the KEyence Research MIcroscope Testbed (KERMIT) microscope for observation and imaging. Cancer in Low Earth Orbit-2 expands on previous research to develop models that predict potential development of cancers. Such models may contribute to developing countermeasures that mitigate cancer risk on future space missions and tools for detecting and treating cancer and other diseases on Earth.
Distribution Inside the International Space Station – 3D (DOSIS-3D): The crew installed the DOSIS-3D main box in Columbus. ISS crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation which can be harmful to their health. DOSIS-3D uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS.
International Commercial Experiment Cubes (ICE Cubes): Photos were taken of the Ax-3 crew working with Experiment Cube #21. The Ax-3 crew then discussed space adaptation syndrome and benefits of telemedicine with interviewers on the ground. The ICE Cubes Facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration or educational objectives. During flight, users can monitor near real-time telemetry and have tele-commanding capabilities from any location with an internet connection. The ICE Cubes service provides fast and direct access to the ISS for any country, any institute, or any entity.
Ready Pasta (Ax-3): A Ready Pasta meal was heated, consumed and a questionnaire was filled out. Ready Pasta Heat & Taste in Microgravity on the Ax-3 tests a shelf-stable cooked pasta, Barilla Rotini Ready Pasta. Crew members taste and evaluate the pasta using a questionnaire developed by Barilla experts. 
Pranet Algal (Propolis Effect and Algae) (Ax-3): Photos were taken of the algae growing in the six Pranet Algal experiment petri dishes. The Ax-3 crew also performed surface swabbing and smear for the Propoli-Pranet experiment petri dishes. Propolis Effect and Algae is actually the combination of 2 experiments: Propoli-Pranet and Pranet Algal. Pranet Algal aims to examine the growth of extremophilic microalgae life in temperate conditions such as the space environment, and to observe how they react during their growth. This is important because microalgae could not only serve as a source of food but also improve air quality and waste treatment for future space missions and habitation on Mars or the Moon. Propoli-Pranet aims to investigate the effectiveness of propolis extract on bacteria in a microgravity environment. If propolis proves to be similarly effective in microgravity as it was in a previous experiment using propolis antibacterial wipes in microgravity, this could open the door for use of propolis as a natural antibacterial option in space.
Sleep in Orbit (Ax-3): Following charging of the batteries, the Ax-3 crew donned the experiment hardware and began an overnight recording session. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep in Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-Electroencephalography (EEG) based sleep monitoring.
Surface Avatar (Ax-3): The Ax-3 crew set up the experiment hardware and performed a science session. In this version of the experiment, the crew commands a team of robots in a simulated extraterrestrial surface habitat on Earth. The Surface Avatar: Multi-Avatar and Robots Collaborating with Intuitive Interface (Surface Avatar) investigation evaluates how effectively multiple surface robots can be commanded in scalable autonomy under conditions in space. Surface Avatar also seeks to provide information on how well the robot operator responds to haptic feedback, and – crucially – what the challenges and sticking points are for a real orbit-to-ground setup to operate robots remotely.
Systems:
Toilet Motor Spin Test: The crew activated the Toilet and performed a spin test of the fans and urine separator. The purpose of this test is to validate the operation of the Toilet fan and urine separator prior to re-installation of the Toilet Dose Pump in Spring 2024. The Universal Waste Management System (UWMS), or “Toilet”, is a technical demonstration that aims to provide a robust, low consumables, low profile human metabolic waste management system for future space exploration vehicles. 
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: The crew completed a flow measurement survey of the ISS IMV system in Node 3, the Cupola, NRAL, and Node 1 to ensure proper health of the system. This survey included using the Velocicalc device and a set of measurement aids to measure the air flow exiting outlets and entering inlets in the USOS modules. Additionally, visual inspections were performed. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Maintenance: The crew cleaned the inside surface of an EVA helmet bubble following the previous USOS EVA. The cleaning included removing Valsalva, Fresnel Lenses, and any leftover residue from the EVA. During the activity, the helmet was not completely cleaned, but most of the residue is gone. The crew also completed an EMU loop scrub on EMUs 3003 and 3004, which is required preventative maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU cooling loop. 
Onboard Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session: The crew completed an OBT ROBoT session to practice for the upcoming Cygnus capture and berthing using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). The crew will be required to use the SSRMS to capture and berth the NG-20 Cygnus vehicle when is arrives to the ISS on Wednesday, January 31st.
