ISS On-Orbit Status 01/25/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Underway: Week 9 of Increment 22
 
 At wake-up, FE-1 Suraev began his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator.    [The filters were installed by Maxim on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 Also at wake-up, CDR Williams started Day 2 with the Nutrition/Repository/Pro K protocol’s Blood &amp; Urine Activities, his FD120  (Flight Day 120) blood draw session, concluding the 24-hr urine collections started yesterday, stowing the samples in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) and then doing blood sample collection later in the day, assisted by FE-6 Creamer.     [The operational products for Blood &amp; Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.] 
 
 Right after Postsleep, Williams, Noguchi &amp; Creamer completed another Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  A total of 121 RST runs are assigned to Jeff for the duration of his orbital stay.]
 
 FE-1 Suraev had his 4<sup>th</sup> session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.     [Kotov was available to assist in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes and applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]
 
 In the U.S. Lab, the CDR installed an AmiA (Antimicrobial Applicator) module in the ITCS MTL (Internal Thermal Control System / Moderate Temperature Loop), an exacting 45-min job.    [Running for a minimum of six hours, AmiA introduced OPA (Ortho-phthalaldehyde), an antimicrobial agent, into the Lab TCS coolant at the LAB1D3 location.]
 
 Oleg Kotov spent ~2h in the Soyuz TMA-17/21A on a detailed troubleshooting investigation of data logs of the “Neptun” InPU PKSA (Console). 
 
 Later, after setting up supportive STTS comm links with the ground, the FE-4 made preparations for a new run of the Russian/German TEKh-20 Plasma Crystal-3 Plus (PK-3+) experiment payload, the first of Expedition 22, by unstowing the hardware in the SM PkhO (Transfer Compartment), installing it in the SM for operation, with Suraev photographing the setup with the NIKON D2X for storage on the RSK-1 laptop for ground inspection.  The images were then downlinked to TsUP/Moscow via OCA for inspection, and Kotov performed the initial leak check of the PK-3 Electronics Box before its evacuation.  STTS was then reconfigured.  More work to come tomorrow.    [The experiment is performed on plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside a vacuum work chamber.  Main objective is to obtain a homogeneous plasma dust cloud at various pressures and particle quantities with or without superimposition of an LF (low frequency) harmonic electrical field.  The experiment is conducted in automated mode.  PK-3+ has more advanced hardware and software than the previously used Russian PKE-Nefedov payload.]
 In the U.S. A/L (Airlock), Williams terminated the ongoing EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) battery recharge in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly).
 
 Also in the A/L (Airlock), Noguchi removed &amp; replaced the Bacterial/Charcoal Filters of the THC (Temperature &amp; Humidity Control) system (of which there are three in the A/L).
 
 Soichi had another 2hr for prepacking 20A return equipment.
 
 Working on the ESA EMCS (European Modular Cultivation System) in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), TJ Creamer installed water pump tubes on three RBLSS (Rotor-Based Life Support System) modules (one module on Rotor A, two modules on Rotor B), followed by a software upgrade on the EMCS SPC (Standard Payload Computer). 
 
 Continuing commissioning work on the CUCU (COTS UHF Communications Unit) equipment, installed and connected to ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6, LAB104) Locker 7 on 1/14, Jeff Williams powered up the CUCU CCP (Crew Command Panel) and checked it out.     [These activities continued preparations for the next scheduled grappled Free Flyer vehicle called Dragon, currently expected to arrive at the ISS later this year.]
 
 Afterwards, the CDR also initiated (later terminated) another 5-hr sampling run (the 64<sup>th</sup>) with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer).  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.    [The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
 Starting a new round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, Maxim worked in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok), replacing the PS1 &amp; PS2 dust filter cartridges, and also in the SM where he cleaned Group A &amp; Group C ventilation fan systems.
 
 Later, the FE-1 terminated the current run of the BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment in the SM by deactivating the pump and starting the drying process on the plants in the LADA greenhouse.    [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-16 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP), currently planted with Mizuna seeds.  Mizuna (Brassica rapa nipposinica) is a tasty variety of Japanese mustard greens, also known as California Peppergrass, eaten as a salad.] 
 
 In the SM, the FE-4 did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 Oleg also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 For the periodic survey of onboard carbon dioxide measurements, TJ Creamer was scheduled for the day-long survey of CO<sub>2 </sub>levels, using the CDMK #1013, attached close to his breathing zone, for measuring ppCO<sub>2</sub> (CO<sub>2</sub> partial pressure) during the day.     [The data are recorded on an onboard spreadsheet which will be downlinked once the mission is complete to support a long-term analysis of Station/Shuttle ventilation.  CDM clock data and Station GMT had to be called down to MCC-H for correlation of the timestamps on the CDM download data.]
 
 TJ returned the stowage bag with empty CWC-I (Collapsible Water Container-Iodine) units to its regular Node-2 stowage after Jeff had temporarily moved it to the Node-2 forward endcone to make room for the CBCS (Centerline Berthing Camera System) on 1/19.
 
 The FE-6 also had ~30 min reserved for a procedures familiarization review of upcoming MSRR (Material Science Research Rack) Batch 1 processing.
 
 Working in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Soichi installed the MI (Marangoni Inside) experiment cover body on the FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility).
 
 Noguchi also took care of the periodic evacuation of the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration.    [The pneumatic cylinder of the ARED continues to exhibit a small leak, and an onboard repair cannot be conducted at this time.  The crew continues exercising with the current configuration, with frequent cylinder evacuations.]
 
 At 11:05am EST, the CDR conducted the periodic VHF-1 emergency communications proficiency check over NASA’s VHF (Very High Frequency) stations, today at the VHF site Wallops (11:09:33am-11:16:33am), then using Dryden (12:37pm-12:44pm) and White Sands (12:39pm-12:45pm) VHF Sites for a second checkout pass, talking with Houston/Capcom, MSFC/PAYCOM (Payload Operation &amp; Integration Center Communicator), Moscow/GLAVNI (TsUP Capcom), EUROCOM/Munich and JCOM/Tsukuba in the normal fashion via VHF radio from a handheld microphone and any of the USOS ATUs (Audio Terminal Units).     [Purpose of the test is to verify signal reception and link integrity, improve crew proficiency, and ensure minimum required link margin during emergency (no TDRS) and special events (such as a Soyuz relocation).]
 
 Jeff Williams donned the Glenn treadmill harness with installed transducer instrumentation (7<sup>th</sup> time for him), then activated the harness for his exercise run on the T2/COLBERT treadmill.     [Afterwards, the CDR downloaded the harness data and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).]
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.
 
 

