
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #69 Columbus Upgrades – Michael Hopkins (EV1) and Victor Glover (EV2) performed a 6 hour 56 minute EVA that completed the following tasks in support of upgrades to the Columbus Module:

COLKA Bolt installation and COLKA cable routing
Bartolomeo Papos cable routing
Bartolomeo Antenna cable routing
COLKA cover removal and cover jettison
P6 H-Fixture removal

The crew attempted to mate the four Bartolomeo Papos cables to the Columbus module but were unable to fully lock the connectors. The crew then mated and wire tied two of the four cables in place and placed protective caps on the other cables. The connection checkout was successful with the tie down configuration. Due to time constraints, the crew was unable to return to Columbus and will have to mate the remaining cables at a different date.
Payloads
BioNutrients: The crew retrieved the incubated production packs from SABL-1 and inserted them into cold stowage. BioNutrients demonstrates a technology that enables on-demand production of human nutrients during long-duration space missions. The process uses engineered microbes, like yeast, to generate carotenoids from an edible media to supplement potential vitamin losses from food that is stored for very long periods. Specially designed storage/growth packets are intermittently activated by astronauts over a five-year period, then frozen and returned to Earth for examination. 
Capillary Structures: The crew assembled the Capillary Sorbent Contractor Demonstration Hardware on the Demo Back plate. Current life-support systems on the ISS require special equipment to separate liquids and gases, including rotating or moving devices that could cause contamination if they break or fail. The Capillary Structures for Exploration Life Support (Capillary Structures) investigation studies a new method using structures of specific shapes to manage fluid and gas mixtures. The investigation studies water recycling and carbon dioxide removal, benefiting future efforts to design lightweight, more reliable life support systems for future space missions.
Human Research Facility-2 (HRF-2): The crew took photos of the HRF GDS tanks stored in the FPS Gas Cylinders that support the Portable Pulmonary Function System. Human Research Facility-2 (HRF-2) provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables human life science researchers to study and evaluate the physiological, behavioral and chemical changes induced by spaceflight. Research performed using HRF-2 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): The crew performed an audit of the MSG Cargo Transfer Bag (CTB) stowed items in order to take inventory and trash obsolete items. The Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) is a rack-level payload facility located in the U.S. Laboratory module on the International Space Station (ISS). MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present. MSG is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
Systems 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) 6-Month Maintenance: The crew completed this regularly scheduled maintenance to inspect heel raise pip pins, racking mechanism and arm base slider track.

