
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixtures (CSLM)-4:  Virts set up and began processing on the first of six CSLM-4 runs.  Over the next week, six CSLM sample processing units (SPUs) will be processed in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and prepared for return on SpaceX-5.   For each run, the crew will configure valves and connections to vent the SPU and water lines, start the automated processing sequence, transfer experiment data and exchange the processed SPU with a new one after each sample run.  CSLM-4 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount (low volume fraction) of tin branch-like (i.e., dendritic) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature (i.e., isothermal) conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (KP):  Wilmore changed the camera battery, set the intervalometer, and checked the camera alignment and focus for the BCAT-KP experiment.   BCAT-KP provides a platform for material and industrial scientists to investigate colloid phase changes, providing results that may be used to develop new colloidal materials and formulations with unique properties. The results may support new applications, from new liquid crystals to consumer goods having longer shelf life and uses.
Fruit Fly Lab -1 (FFL-1):  Cristoforetti prepared the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) for Fruit Fly Lab operations, removed old food trays from fly cassettes in the Nanoracks Biorack platform-3 and applied a RNAlater fixative solution. The samples will then be frozen in the Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  New fly cassettes will be installed into the NanoRacks Centrifuge to continue the Fruit Fly experiment.  Drosophila melanogaster, or the fruit fly, serves as a useful model organism to investigate the biological effects of the space environment. In previous experiments, it’s been shown that the innate immune system of the fly is affected by spaceflight. In this experiment we plan on studying what the combined effect of altered host immunity and altered microbial physiology will be in the space flight environment.
Dragon Cargo Transfer:  Today, the crew continued with cargo operations for the newly arrived SpaceX-5 Dragon. The crew has completed ~18 hours of the estimated 65 hours needed to unpack then pack SpaceX-5 cargo.    
Lithium-ion Battery Charger Calibration:  Wilmore performed a series of checks to determine if the Lithium-ion Battery Charger is operating within calibration standards. This verification is required once every five years.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance:  As part of periodic maintenance, Wilmore greased the ARED Vibration Isolation System (VIS) Rails, Rollers, Upper Stop catch plates, and Rack Indicator Catch Mechanisms. He then inspected the X-Rotation Dashpots.
Tracking Data Relay Satellite (TDRS)-L Testing:  Wilmore successfully performed S-Band and Ku-Band communications checks with MCC-H via the new satellite.  TDRS-L, which launched from Cape Canaveral on January 23rd 2014 has been undergoing various testing sessions.  Provided the remaining test objectives are successful, TDRS-L will replace an older geo-synchronous satellite located at 41 degrees west longitude on February 9th 2015.  TDRS-L is a third-generation spacecraft with new designs to ensure vital operational continuity for NASA by expanding the lifespan of the TDRS fleet. 

