
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom 3:
SpaceX Crew Dragon Freedom successfully docked to the ISS at 4:56 AM CST today. With the arrival of the four private astronauts, Michael López-Alegría, Walter Villadei, Alper Gezeravcı, and Marcus Wandt, the ISS crew complement has increased to 11. The Ax-3 crew participated in a live welcome ceremony and successfully completed the ISS safety briefing, crew handover time, cold stowage transfers, cargo operations, and setup of sleeping arrangements. The Ax-3 crew also initiated science activities including setting up the KUBIK facility and began setting up hardware for the Extremophyte CRISPR payload.
Payloads:
Extremophyte CRISPR (Ax-3): The crew gathered the experiment hardware and staged the Petri dishes to prepare for later experiment activities. Extreme Salt Stress and CRISPR Gene Editing Efficiency in Plants Under Microgravity (Extremophyte CRISPR) on the Ax-3 PAM tests the salt stress tolerance of two species of plants and examines how microgravity affects the CRISPR gene editing method. Results could lead to the use of these plants and CRISPR to enhance stress resistance in plants intended for use in life support and other systems during future long-duration space missions.
International Commercial Experiment Cubes (ICE Cubes): The Microalgae Life Science 1 Cube was installed. The ICE Cubes Facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration or educational objectives. During flight, users can monitor near real-time telemetry, and have tele-commanding capabilities from any location with an internet connection. The ICE Cubes service provides fast and direct access to the ISS for any country, any institute, or any entity.
Plant Habitat-06: The Plant Habitat Facility was cleaned and flushed. The Effect of Spaceflight and Simulated Microgravity on Plant Defense Responses (Plant Habitat-06) experiment investigates the physiological and genetic responses to defense activation and immune system function in tomatoes during spaceflight. Genetic sequencing and analysis indicate that plants exhibit an adaptive defense response rather than the initial defensive response. A better understanding of how microgravity affects plant immune function is needed to support plant growth and food production on future space missions.
Systems:
ISS Safety Briefing: Today, all crew reviewed plans for emergency situations and locations of emergency equipment in the manned vehicles. The newly arrived crew gained familiarization with the available safety measures onboard ISS, the potential hazards, and the equipment needed for emergency response.
Node 1 Zenith (N1Z) Depressurization Equipment Teardown: The crew power cycled the Pressure Management Device (PMD) and swapped a cable connection on a Station Support Computer (SSC) USB port to regain communication with the device. After communication was re-established, the N1Z Dome was repressurized, and the crew disconnected and stowed PMD. This activity concludes the leak check of the N1Z Dome, which started on Thursday, January 18th.
