
Fluid Shifts Chibis Imaging Day 2: Due to yesterday’s issues with the Joint Station LAN (JSL), the final Flight Day 45 Chibis session for the 49S crew was rescheduled and performed this morning. The subject donned the Chibis device, and while the crewmember was exposed to the negative pressure (pulling the fluid feetward), then with ground and onboard operator support they configured the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and the Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) hardware, before completing a DPOAE test, OCT exam, and a Tonometry exam. The purpose of this investigation is to characterize the space flight-induced fluid shift, including intra- and extravascular shifts, intra- and extracellular shifts, changes in total body water and lower vs. upper body shifts. Noninvasive techniques are used to assess arterial and venous dimensions and flow parameters, ocular pressure and structure, and changes in intracranial pressure. Lower body negative pressure is being investigated for its ability to mitigate some of the effects of the space flight-induced fluid shift. Results from this investigation are expected to help define the causes of the ocular structure and vision changes associated with long duration space flight, and assist in the development of countermeasures.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) On-Board Training (OBT): Prior to participating in the SPHERES Zero Robotic Challenge activities on Friday, the crew viewed an OBT video to familiarize themselves with the SPHERES facility. The SPHERES Zero Robotics investigation establishes an opportunity for high school students to design research for the ISS. As part of a competition, students write algorithms for the SPHERES satellites to accomplish tasks relevant to future space missions. The algorithms are tested by the SPHERES team and the best designs are selected for the competition to operate the SPHERES satellites on board the ISS.
H-II Transfer Vehicle 6 (HTV6) Departure Preparations:  Earlier today, the crew completed final cargo loading and egressed HTV6. The crew configured the vestibule for demate by removing Air Revitalization System (ARS) jumper, Intermodular Ventilation (IMV) supply jumper, 1553/ENET A and B jumper, and disconnecting the Node 2 HTV channel 2 power jumper.  The also installed the Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assemblies (CPAs).  HTV-6 unberth activities are scheduled to start tomorrow morning at ~5:30 am CST with vehicle release at ~9:30 am CST.

