
Story Time From Space Meniscus Demonstration: The crew narrated and recorded a video demonstration exploring how a fluid behaves in free fall (microgravity) and how acceleration compared to free fall will make fluid behave the same as it would on the ground (1-G environment). Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crew members read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crew members videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials. Today’s demonstration was based on the children’s book Max Goes to the Space Station.
Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Hardware Reconfiguration Part 2: Today the crew successfully completed the MDCA reconfiguration to the Cool Flames Investigation (CFI) setup.  The crew replaced the MDCA Needles, Igniters, Fiber Arm, and replace the fuel reservoirsThe crew then reinstalled the MDCA Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) and reconnect Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL).  .  During the igniter exchange, a pin broke and remained in the receptacle.  The crewmember was able to extract the stuck pin and continue with the remaining operations. The CFI provides new insight into the phenomenon where some types of fuels initially burn very hot, then appear to go out — but they continue burning at a much lower temperature, with no visible flames (cool flames). Understanding cool flame combustion helps scientists develop new engines and fuels that are more efficient and less harmful to the environment. 
Fluid Shifts Chibis Imaging Day 2: The 48S subject performed their Chibis imaging part 2 session. The subject donned the Chibis device, and while the crewmember was exposed to the negative pressure (pulling the fluid feetward), Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), and Tonometry exams were performed by an operator. During the DPOAE test, the crew had issues obtaining a good seal on the DPOAE probe tip in order to perform the test.  After troubleshooting, the crew attached a backup and was able to proceed.  Only one of the two DPOAE tests was able to be completed during the subject’s allowable time in Chibis.  Additionally, during data transfer power supplied by a 28 Volt DC to 120 Volt AC inverter was lost.  The loss of power resulted in the loss of the OCT data.  Due to the change in 48S landing, this session was considered a bonus data collection, and the loss of one DPOAE test point and OCT data is considered no impact.  A repeat of the R-45 Day Fluid Shifts activities will be scheduled within the necessary window.  The purpose of this investigation is to characterize the space flight-induced fluid shift, including intra- and extravascular shifts, intra- and extracellular shifts, changes in total body water and lower vs. upper body shifts. Noninvasive techniques are used to assess arterial and venous dimensions and flow parameters, ocular pressure and structure, and changes in intracranial pressure. Lower body negative pressure is being investigated for its ability to mitigate some of the effects of the space flight-induced fluid shift. Results from this investigation are expected to help define the causes of the ocular structure and vision changes associated with long duration space flight, and assist in the development of countermeasures. 
Condensate Water Separator Assembly (CWSA) Maintenance:  During Columbus Desiccant Module inspection and replacement, executed in February of 2016, possible contamination was found on CWSA1 debris screen and residues on the CWSA1 cover.  Earlier today, the crew inspected, took samples and cleaned-up contamination found on various locations of the CWSA1 in Columbus.
They also replaced the core of CWSA2.  The following ORU(s) were removed and replaced during the activity: Condensate Filter, Inlet Debris Screen, Fan Sub-Assembly, Air Check Valve, and Electronic Unit. CWSA2 failed at the end of July 2016 when the underspeed protection stopped the motor automatically.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Collection: The crew conducted ITCS fluid sampling from the Japanese Pressurized Module (JPM) and Node 3 (N3) Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) sample ports. These samples will be returned to the ground on SpX-10 for analysis.  The return to ground samples are taken once a year to monitor the quality of the water in the ITCS loops. 
Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Nitrogen Transfer:  Today the crew installed a NORS Nitrogen recharge tank into the Airlock manifold and initiating Nitrogen transfer to the Airlock tanks. This is the first time the NORS has been used to transfer Nitrogen.

