
Story Time from Space:  Peake read “Science on the Space Station” from the book Max Goes to the Space Station,” discussed the subject on camera and demonstrated the scientific principles involved.  Kelly obtained pictures of Peake while he was reading the book with the Cupola in the background.  The video recording will be downlinked to the ground and used for educational purposes.
 
Sleep Actiwatch Downlink and Configuration:  Kelly downloaded data from his and Kornienko’s Actiwatch Spectrums and then configured the devices to continue collecting data.  The actiwatches have a photodiode that measures ambient light and an accelerometer to measure the movement of the arm or leg that the watch is attached to.  The actiwatch data recorded on the watch supports the Sleep ISS-12 experiment, which assesses the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Low Earth Orbiting Navigation Experiment for Spacecraft Testing Autonomous Rendezvous and Docking (LONESTAR):  Peake depressurized and vented the JEM Airlock today in preparation for the deploy of the LONESTAR tomorrow.  LONESTAR contains satellites AggieSat4 (built by Texas A&M University students) and Bevo-2 (built by University of Texas students).  After deploy away from the ISS, AggieSat4 ejects the BEVO-2 satellite.  Both satellites then perform cross-linking communications, exchange data, link to GPS, and transmit to ground radio stations.  LONESTAR is used to further develop and refines autonomous navigation, rendezvous and docking software and procedures.  Future NASA missions to destinations such as asteroids and other celestial bodies require the use of autonomous navigation systems.
 
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Cargo Operations:  All three USOS Crew continued transferring Cygnus cargo to ISS today. As of yesterday afternoon, approximately 17 hours remain to be completed.  Cygnus is scheduled to unberth from ISS on February 19th.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Internal Port Camera:  Peake worked to relocate the JEM internal port camera slightly lower from its current position over the JEM Airlock. The new position will avoid interference with upcoming Stowage Frame installation.
 
Power Strip (PS)-120 Junction Box Installation:  Peak has installed a PS-120 Junction Box within the JEM today. Once installed, he changed the power source for the Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST) from Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) to the newly installed junction box.
 
Sound Level Measurements and Acoustic Blanket:  Kopra configured and checked out a new Sound Level Meter, then obtained sound level measurements in Node 3.  There was not sufficient time to complete the Acoustic Blanket installation today, therefore the activity will be deferred to an alternate day.  The two Acoustic Blankets that were to be installed today were intended to reduce the noise coming from Treadmill 2 (T2), especially near the runner’s head.
 
 

