
Payloads
AstroRad Vest: The crew performed exercise while wearing the AstroRad Vest. The AstroRad vest is a personal protective equipment (PPE) device which functions as a radiation shield for astronauts. The AstroRad shields astronauts from space-borne ionizing radiation in an efficient way, provides operational simplification, and allows for the use of recycled material on-board the vehicle. The concept behind the AstroRad evolved from a commercially available device, the 360 Gamma shield, made by StemRad Ltd., which is an effective wearable shield for first responders to radiation incidents on the Earth.
Recon RFID-Enabled Autonomous Logistics Management-2 (RFID): The crew installed the RFID Recon Reader on the Astrobee Free Flyer and performed a functional checkout before putting the Flyer back into its nominal configuration. RFID-Enabled Autonomous Logistics Management-2 (REALM-2) (RFID Recon) uses a radio frequency identification (RFID) reader and antennas attached to a robotic free-flyer named Astrobee to identify RFID-tagged cargo on the International Space Station to determine its presence and location in order to help the crew find items quickly and efficiently. RFID tags are similar to barcodes, except they are electronic, do not require line-of-sight, and are able to respond through wireless communication.
Human Research Facility-2 (HRF-2): The crew removed the current HRF Centrifuge Tube Carriers from the HRF Centrifuge in HRF Rack 2 and replaced them with new carriers. Human Research Facility-2 (HRF-2) provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables human life science researchers to study and evaluate the physiological, behavioral and chemical changes induced by spaceflight. Research performed using HRF-2 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew continued preparations for the upcoming ISS Upgrades II EVA on Monday, February 1. They installed and checked out the Rechargeable EVA Battery assembly (REBA) and the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB)/Metal Oxide (METOX) into the EMUs. They also performed a procedure review and configured tools necessary for the EVA. The crew also performed a Full Water Tank dump and fill to purge gas buildup in the EMU Water Tanks.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and termination – As part of regularly scheduled preventative maintenance, the crew performed a manual WHC flush tank fill.  By using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as the burp, they depressurized the flush water tank and water valve block to protect the dose pump. This pump is critical as it injects the pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.

