ISS On-Orbit Status 01/21/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 Soyuz TMA-16 (20S) relocation went smoothly.   After a brief ride in their crew return vehicle, FE-1 Maxim Suraev &amp; CDR Jeff Williams docked at the MRM2 Poisk module, the first linkup on the new component, at ~5:25am EST, completing the spacecraft’s relocation from the SM aft port in just 22 minutes.    [After undocking at 5:03am, Soyuz CDR Suraev backed away from the station 25-30 m, then translated the spacecraft to the left, slewing sidewise through 90 deg along the ISS toward the bow before rotating (“indexing”) the Soyuz around its longitudinal axis to align its periscope with the EVA-24-installed docking target on the MRM2, spending a short time in station-keeping mode.  Final approach began at ~5:20am, with docking at ~5:25am.  After hooks and latches were engaged, the crew conducted leak checks, opened hatches (~8:30am) and then reentered the station through the MRM2.] 
 
 For the relocation, crew wakeup was shifted earlier by 4h15m to 8:45pm last night.  Sleep time begins early today at ~2:00am (until 1:00am tomorrow, returning to normal schedule).
 
 While locked out in TMA-16, the two crewmembers donned their Sokol pressure suits and conducted Soyuz checkout operations.  
 
 Next, Maxim &amp; Jeff conducted the standard fit check of the Kazbek couches, the contoured shock absorbing seats in the Soyuz Descent Module.   [For the fit check, crew members removed their cabin suits and donned Sokol KV-2 suit and comm caps, getting into in their seats and assessing the degree of comfort and uniform body support provided by the seat liner.  Using a ruler, they then measured the gap between the top of the head and the top edge of the structure facing the head crown.  The results were reported to TsUP.  Kazbek-UM couches are designed to withstand g-loads during launch and orbital insertion as well as during reentry and brake-rocket-assisted landing.  Each seat has two positions: cocked (armed) and noncocked. In cocked position, they are raised to allow the shock absorbers to function during touchdown.  The fit check assures that the crewmembers, whose bodies gain in length during longer-term stay in zero-G, will still be adequately protected by the seat liners for their touchdown in Kazakhstan, either emergency or regular return.]
 
 RS (Russian Segment) thrusters were disabled at ~12:10am for the QD (quick disconnect, BZV) screw clamps removal and hook opening.
 
 For the relocation, ISS attitude control authority was handed over to RS motion control at 4:10am.  After relocation, control returned to US momentum management at ~6:55am.
 
 After Soyuz docking, leak checking and Sokol suit &amp; glove drying, the thrusters were again disabled at ~7:15am for the leak checking and post-docking clamp installation (~8:50am).  TMA-16 deactivation began at about 9:50am. 
 
 Jeff Williams tore down &amp; removed the RS video “scheme” which employs TV conversion to U.S. NTSC format and Ku-band of the RS video signal from the SONY HDV camera via MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoder from FGB &amp; SM, in order to downlink “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.   [The associated conversion laptop, an A31p (SSC-1) in the FGB, on which Oleg monitored the video stream during the relocation, was configured and later shut down by FE-5 Noguchi.]
 
 Other post-docking activities, performed by FE-4 Kotov, included –
 <ul style="margin-top: 0pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 36pt; "> <li>Terminating the BRTK Ku-band video transmission,</li><li>Reconfiguring STTS station comm to nominal mode,</li><li>Reactivating the MRM2 MPI Multifunction Panel (which had been turned off before undock),</li><li>Switching the MRM2 PrK (Transfer Tunnel)-to-Soyuz PEV (Pressure Equalization Valve, Russian: KVD) manually to its Closed position, a standard post-undocking procedure,</li><li>Setting PEV to electrical control position, and</li><li>Conducting the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways  [inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1].</li></ul> 
 At wake-up last night, FE-4 Kotov began his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator.    [The filters were installed by Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 CDR Williams &amp; FE-6 Creamer continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), donning their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 Also at wake-up, TJ Creamer set up the NUTRITION/Repository/Pro K hardware for his 24-hr urine collections beginning tomorrow (1/22).  The setup additionally provides for Jeff Williams’ collections over the next few days.    [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]
 
 FE-5 Noguchi took on the periodic (monthly) deployment of four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307) for two days, to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.     [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]
 
 Oleg Kotov configured the equipment for his first onboard session with the Russian experiment DYKHANIE (MBI-18, “Respiration”) and undertook the test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop and supported by ground specialist tagup.  Oleg then closed down the hardware and stowed it.     [Dykhanie-1 uses two body belts (PG-T/thoracic, PG-A/abdominal), a calibrator, resistor, mouthpiece, etc., to study fundamental physiological mechanisms of the external breathing function of crewmembers under long-duration orbital flight conditions.  During the experiment, physiological measurements are taken and recorded with a pneumotachogram, a thoracic pneumogram, an abdominal pneumogram, and pressure data in the oral cavity.  All experimentally derived plus salient environmental data along with personal data of the subject are recorded on PCMIA card for return to the ground at end of the Expedition.  Objectives include determining the dynamics of the relationship between thoracic (pectoral) and abdominal breathing function reserves and their realization potential during spontaneous breathing, the coordinated spontaneous respiratory movements in terms of thoracic and abdominal components of volumetric, time &amp; rate parameters of spontaneous respiratory cycle, identification of the features of humoral-reflex regulation of breathing by dynamics of ventilation sensitivity of thoracic and abdominal components to chemoreceptor stimuli, etc.  Overall, the experiment is intended to provide a better understanding of the basic mechanisms of pulmonary respiration/gas exchange gravitational relations of cosmonauts.]
 
 Later, Kotov conducted the periodic transfer of U.S. condensate water from CWCs (Contingency Water Container, #1004, #1030, #1077) to the RS for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen &amp; (waste) hydrogen, filling the designated KOV EDV container.  Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator.]
 
 Creamer performed the weekly 10-min. CWC inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week.    [The current card (22-0003G) lists 84 CWCs (1,979.3 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (17 CWCs with 612.0 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 234.2 L in 8 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 243.6 L in 6 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 23.0 L in 1 bag contain Wautersia, 43.6 L in 1 bag require analysis &amp; 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (53 CWCs with 980.4 L),  4. condensate water (3 empty CWCs), and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (1 CWC with 20.2 L, 1 empty CWC).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 In the SM Zvezda module, the FE-4 did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 Soichi Noguchi had another ~2 hrs for prepacking 20A return cargo.
 
 The FE-5 also conducted a 2-hr audit/inventory of onboard crew provisions, based on uplinked IMS (Inventory Management System) tables.
 
 FE-6 Creamer had ~3h30min reserved for working in the U.S. A/L (Airlock) to route &amp; install a contingency secondary electrical jumper, required to provide power to A/L shell heaters during 20A.
 
 Later, Creamer used three GSC (Grab Sample Container) units to take the periodic air samples in the center of the SM, Lab and COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory).
 
 In a maintenance task on the onboard Crew Eyewash goggles, TJ secured the wash hoses on the goggle lenses with hose clamps.    [This in response to an issue with the Eyewash ground training unit in which the hoses came loose from the metal barbs on the lenses.]
 
 The non-EVA crewmembers worked out on their regular (2-hr) physical exercise schedule on the TVIS treadmill (FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6).
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Kathmandu, Nepal (weather was predicted to be clear over the capital city of Nepal.  The city is located within the southern front ranges of the Himalayas within the Kathmandu Valley.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), Dodoma, Tanzania (some patchy clouds may have been present in the Dodoma region.  The city became the national capital of Tanzania in 1996.  The city presents little contrast with its surroundings, but is located directly to the north of a grouping of small dark hills.  The crew was to begin to acquire nadir-viewing mapping frames as ISS approached, and then passed over, the target), Mt. Kilimanjaro, Tanzania (ISS passed over Mt. Kilimanjaro less than one minute after the previous target of Dodoma.  Clouds may ring the lower slopes of the mountain, but the peak is usually clear.  Overlapping frames of the glaciers and snow cover on Kilimanjaro's peak are useful for tracking change in ice and snow extent over time), Muscat, Oman (the capital city of Oman is located on the coastline of the Gulf of Oman near the Straits of Hormuz.  Looking slightly to the right of track for the urban area - overlapping mapping frames of the city were requested), Kabul, Afghanistan (weather was predicted to be clear over the capital city of Kabul.  Recent snowfall in the area may also highlight city blocks and street grids.  The city is situated in a narrow valley between the Hindu Kush Mountains and the Kabul River.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), and Bangui, Central African Republic (the capital city of the Central African Republic is located on the banks of the Ubangi River.  Looking slightly to the left of track for the city; overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested).
 
 
