
ISS Experience setup and recording: The crew set up the hardware in Node 1, recorded themselves with The ISS Experience Z- Cam answering questions from the ISS Experience Astronaut Log, then moved the ISS Experience hardware to Node 2. Questions were related to the astronaut’s personal experience, adaptation to life in space, and space exploration. The ISS Experience team will create a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic VR (Virtual Reality) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses. 
Refabricator payload overview: The crew installed the Refabricator hardware into the Basic EXPRESS rack 10B. Refabricator’s objective is to demonstrate a unique process for repeatable, closed-loop recycling of a polyetherimide/polycarbonate plastic material for additive manufacturing in the microgravity environment of the ISS. Eventually, Refabricator type hardware could recycle waste plastic materials into high quality 3D-printer filament, providing the potential for sustainable fabrication, repair, and recycling capabilities on long-duration space missions. This hardware represents a key component of NASA’s In-Space Manufacturing (ISM) technology development roadmap. 
70 Progress (70P) Undock: 70P undocked from the Docking Compartment (DC) 1 port today at 5:55 AM CT. The deorbit burn occurred at 10:08 AM CT followed by atmospheric entry and destruction.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Operations: Yesterday, the crew installed an ITCS Maintenance canister which ran in the Lab ITCS for a minimum of 4 hours to introduce antimicrobial Ortho-Phythaladehyde (OPA). Today, following an equalization of at least 24 hours, the crew removed the canister and took fluid samples.
Northrop Grumman 10 (NG-10) Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued Cygnus cargo operations today. Cargo operations will continue to prepare for Cygnus departure currently planned for February 12.

