
Arthrospira-B (Batch Culture): Today concluded the incubation of three Arthrospira-B experiment containers (ECs), one that began two weeks ago, and two that began last week. The ECs were removed from the BioLab Incubator and disassembled inside of the BioLab Glovebox, prior to the samples being inserted into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Arthrospira B experiment is an important step in making improvements in the area of closed regenerative life support systems in space which will help in making future human exploration missions beyond low Earth orbit become a reality. The cyanobacterium Arthrospira sp. strain PCC8005 is a candidate for use in spacecraft biological life support systems, for CO2 and nitrate removal, and oxygen and biomass production. However, to ensure the reliability of such a biological life support system it is necessary to characterize the response of Arthrospira sp. PCC8005 to in situ spaceflight conditions. 
NeuroMapping: Today a 52S crewmember set up the NeuroMapping hardware and performed his Flight Day150 tests in “strapped in” and “free floating” body configurations. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to brain structure and function, motor control, or multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS. 
Lighting Effects:  A 52S crewmember conducted a Visual Performance Test by stowing the hardware in their crew quarters, setting the light to the correct mode, turning all other light sources in the crew quarters off, and performing a Color Discrimination Test. After the test was completed, the crewmember setup the Actiwatch hardware to prepare for a two week long sleep study session, where the crewmember will track his sleep patterns and wakefulness. The sleep study session will begin tomorrow. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-6 (ACE-T-6) Module Configuration: The crew configured the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) to initiate the ACE-T6 science runs by removing the LMM confocal test target from the inside of the LMM Auxiliary Fluids Container and installing the ACE module. The ACE-T-6 investigation studies the microscopic behavior of colloids in gels and creams, to provide new insight into fundamental interactions that can improve product shelf life. Colloids are suspensions of microscopic particles in a liquid, and they are found in products ranging from milk to fabric softener. Consumer products often use colloidal gels to distribute specialized ingredients, for instance droplets that soften fabrics, but the gels must serve two opposite purposes: they have to disperse the active ingredient so it can work, yet maintain an even distribution so the product does not spoil. 
Meteor Hard Drive Exchange and Antivirus Update: The crew removed and replaced the hard drive and performed an antivirus update to the Meteor laptop located in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).  The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument with the primary purpose of observing meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. Since the parent comets or asteroids for most of the meteor showers are identified, the study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.  
Separator Plumbing Assembly (SPA) and Filter Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew performed an R&R of the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) SPA and Purge Filter. Data analysis indicated the SPA was not removing all free gas from the purge distillate, which in turn was sent downstream into the primary distillate line. This R&R was performed in order to eliminate free gas returned to the Distillation Assembly (DA) during the UPA drydown/reprocess.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations:  The crew participated in a debrief of yesterday’s EVA with ground specialists and performed a post EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) water recharge.  In preparation for the next USOS EVA planned on January 29, the crew also performed Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) and SAFER training sessions and an EMU swap. 

