
Payloads:
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF-L):  CBEF-L internal equipment and junction box and were removed. Gas sensors, stirring fan and vent fans were reconfigured and the centrifuge was re-inserted.  CBEF-L is a new Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original CBEF currently aboard the ISS.  CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24V D/C power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment.  By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR):  The CIR high percentage oxygen bottle was replaced with a new bottle containing 85% O2 and 15% N2. The fuel bottle in Manifold 4 was replaced with a new bottle containing 100% C2H4.  The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel, and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity. 
FLUIDICS:  The crew setup the FLUIDICS tank exchange hardware and initiated run #2 and #3.  The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank.  The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank.  The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
Multi-purpose Variable-G Platform (MVP Cell-01):  The sample petri dishes (3) were installed into experiment modules (12) and historical photos were taken.  The MVP Cell-01 aboard the ISS studies the effects of spaceflight on musculoskeletal disease biology.  Motivated by a disease called Post-traumatic Osteoarthritis, in which a traumatic joint injury may lead to arthritis after loss of cartilage and bone, the ability of potential drugs to prevent the progression of this disease is tested on Earth and in space.
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer-22 (NRCSD-22):  A crewmember captured imagery of the NRCSD-22 deployments.  The NRCSD is a self-contained CubeSat deployer system that mechanically and electrically isolates CubeSats and has been in operation since 2014.  Five satellites were deployed for the NRCSD-22 mission: GASPACS (Get Away Special Passive Attitude Control Satellite), FEES2 (Flexible Experimental Embedded Satellite #2), PATCOOL (PAssiveThermal Coating Observatory Operating in Low earth orbit), DAILI (Daily Atmospheric Ionospheric Limb Imager), and TARGIT (Tethering And Ranging mission of the Georgia Institute of Technology). The Satellites will be released in 4 deployments with goals of studying the use of inflatable booms, a miniaturized LIDAR system, passive cooling using surface coatings, etc.
Plant Habitat-05:  A crewmember transferred Plant Habitat Calli (Plant cells) into fresh Transfer Plates.  Unlocking the Cotton Genome to Precision Genetics (Plant Habitat-05) cultivates several cotton genotypes that differ in their ability to regenerate into whole plants from undifferentiated masses of cells known as a calli.  Cotton is highly resistant to the process of plant regeneration, making it difficult to engineer stable, reproducing plants that have specific or enhanced traits such as drought resistance.  The investigation could provide a better understanding of this behavior and a pathway to avert this problem.
Rodent Research-18 (RR-18):  The crew combined and restowed cargo transfer bags to reduce stowage footprint of rodent research hardware on the LAB1 deck.  Astronauts returning from space can experience eye problems, along with headaches and blurred vision. Scientists suspect environmental conditions during spaceflight lead to oxidative stress that adversely affects the eye structure and function. Space Flight Environment Induces Remodeling of Vascular Network and Glia-vascular Communication in Mouse Retina (Rodent Research-18) investigates how spaceflight affects visual function, examining changes in the vascular system of the retina, tissue remodeling and cell-cell interactions in mice.
Systems: 
X2R20 Software Transition Day 2: The X2R20 transition continued today with ground commanding to load software to the Standby Command and Control (C&C), both Internal (INT), and both Payload Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDMs). the crew will also complete loading of the final two Portable Computer System (PCS) laptops. The software transition activities will continue through Friday.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 3 Nadir Hatch Damage Inspection: Earlier this month, the crew reported slight damage to the Node 3 Nadir Hatch Seal. Today, the crew performed a detailed inspection of the damaged areas with photo documentation of the damaged area and of the entire hatch seal for ground review.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Fastener and Velcro Audit: To maintain inventory of onboard hardware, the crew audited the CQ Intake Airflow Sensor Fasteners and CQ Velcro kit. They also disposed of excess CQ intake Access Panel Fasteners.
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA): Today the crew performed an auditory test using the OOHA headset and KUDUwave software. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.
Atmospheric Control System (ACS) Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Tank Swap: The crew replaced the empty N2 NORS tank in the Airlock and configured the new one to feed the USOS Nitrogen system. NORS tanks are used for gas transfer into either the external airlock tanks or directly into the internal O2/N2 lines for gas usage.

