
Russian Segment (RS) EVA 37A: Kotov (EV1) and Ryazansky (EV2) performed RS EVA 37A within 6 hours and 8 minutes duration.  During the EVA, Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins was isolated in the Mini-Research Module (MRM)-2/36S while FE-4 Tyurin, FE-5 Mastracchio, and FE-6 Wakata had access to all modules forward of the Service Module (SM).  Tasks completed during today’s EVA included:

Installation of High Resolution Camera (HRC) on SM Plane IV
Installation of Medium Resolution Camera (MRC) on SM Plane IV
Take photos of electrical connectors on ФП11 and ФП19 connector patch panels of SM
Removal of Worksite Interfaces (WIF) adaptor from SSRMS LEE B
Retrieve СКК #2-СО cassette container from DC-1

MCC-M will be performing HRC and MRC checkout activities in the days to come.
Story Time From Space:  Wakata gathered materials, set up a camcorder and read The Wizard Who Saved the World.  Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crewmembers will read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit and complete simple science concept experiments. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials on the Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS) Academy educational website.
USOS Food Warmer Status: The Express Rack 6 drawer in which the Lab Food Warmer resides, experienced another over current trip on Saturday, January 25th.  A similar trip indication was first observed on January 16th and a subsequent inspection revealed a broken ground cable that was replaced this past Friday.  The Crew has been instructed to use an alternate degraded USOS Food Warmer meanwhile ground teams work on a forward troubleshooting plan.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Rope Remove and Replace (R&R):  Mastrachio completed routine maintenance on ARED by performing an R&R of the Exercise Rope.

