ISS On-Orbit Status 01/20/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     
 
 FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dmitri will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 For her on-going 2<sup>nd</sup> Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment, Cady Coleman observed the initial 10-min rest period (~2:40am EST) before going about her business, swapping Makita batteries as required.  Midpoint for the entire ICV run was reached at about 12:05pm, after which the second 24h data collection period was started.         [The rest period involved relaxing &amp; breathing normally for 10 minutes under quiet, restful conditions.  ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres/BP to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist &amp; ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Cady continued the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing were timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After approximately 24 hrs (today at ~12:00pm), the Cardiopres was temporarily doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).  The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.]
 
 FE-5 Nespoli took time out for reviewing setup and operations procedures for another CFE ICF-2 (Capillary Flow Experiments Interior Corner Flow 2) test, then activated the hardware and performed fluid test runs for ~2 hrs, while Coleman took documentary photography.  Afterwards, Paolo tore the equipment down and stowed it.
 
 Alex Kaleri performed a file dump (download) of the Elektron log files from Laptop RS3.    [For the period of: 12/29/10, 12/30/10, 12/31/10, 01/18/11, 01/19/11, 01/20/11.]
 
 CDR Kelly, FE-1 Kaleri, FE-2 Skripochka &amp; FE-4 Kondratyev had ~90 min set aside for a joint review of the Russian EVA-27 timeline.
 
 Afterwards, Oleg &amp; Dmitri filled the Orlan drink bags and installed them in their respective spacesuits for tomorrow.
 
 Cady Coleman had time set aside to collect surface samples in the Lab using the Microbiology SSK (Surface Sampling Kit).  
 
 Scott Kelly used the MAS (Microbial Air Sampler) kit to take the periodic microbiology (bacterial &amp; fungal) air samples from two specific sampling locations in the SM, Node-1, Lab and Node-3 as well as mid-module in JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      [After a 5-day incubation period, the air &amp; surface samples will be subjected on 1/25 to visual analysis &amp; data recording with the surface slides and Petri dishes of the MAS &amp; SSK.]
 
 Cady Coleman conducted microbiological sampling, taking surface samples with the SSK (Surface Sample Kit) for incubation and the visual microbial (bacterial &amp; fungal) “T+5 Day” analysis.     [The colony growth on the sampling slides is inspected visually after five days of incubation in Petri dishes, using a procedure to analyze the SSK media slides for bacterial &amp; fungal colony growths.]
 
 FE-5 Nespoli began consolidating/clearing cargo items in US Lab loc. O5.  More time for this task will be allocated later. 
 
 FE-2 collected &amp; downloaded the periodic sensor readings of the Russian “Pille-MKS” (MKS = ISS) radiation dosimetry experiment which has 11 sensors placed at various locations in the RS (DC1, SM starboard &amp; port cabin windows, ASU toilet facility, control panel, MRM2, etc.), plus one, the “duty” dosimeter, in the Reader.  Today’s readings were taken from all 11 deployed dosimeters, and dose data were logged and called down to TsUP.  The dosimeters were then re-deployed and the flashcard replaced.     [The dosimeters take their readings automatically every 90 minutes.]
 
 Afterwards, Oleg set up Pille dosimeters for use on the Orlan-MK spacesuits during the EVA-27.
 
 Scott worked ~1h30m with the onboard trainer for the SAFER (Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue) units which are part of the U.S. EMU (Extravehicular mobility Unit) equipment.
 
 At ~7:30am EST, Scott, Dmitri, Paolo &amp; Cady joined up for a discussion of emergency responses between the Soyuz/ISS CDRs and the Soyuz 25S crew while Kelly and Kaleri are isolated in MRM-2 during the EVA-27.  Agreements were then discussed with MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow at the conclusion of the event.
 
 Scott configured the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) toilet for using the internal EDV-U container, and reported the flush counter.
 
 Later, the CDR changed a label on a WRS CWC (Water Recovery System / Contingency Water Container), downgrading the bag from Technical to Condensate after having been processed through the condensate system.
 
 Afterwards, Kelly performed another weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.     [The current card (26-0045D) lists 116 CWCs (2,399.4 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (24 CWCs with 891.2 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 519.5 L in 13 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 214.5 L in 7 bags for transfer into EDV-RP containers via US/RSA-B hose, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (82 CWCs with 1,476.0 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (6.3 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 7 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (25.9 L in 2 CWCs from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 Scott gathered additional charged batteries for the T61p laptops to be used in the MRMs Poisk during his &amp; Sasha’s isolation while EVA-27 is going on.
 
 The CDR also relocated a PCS (Portable Computer System) laptop to the FGB for use by Nespoli &amp; Coleman during the EVA-27.
 
 Nespoli &amp; Coleman had ~1hr for maneuver practice with the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System), returning the robot arm to the High Hover position. 
 
 Cady serviced the EarthKAM (EKAM/Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students) payload in the Lab WORF (Window Observation Research Facility) rack, changing battery twice and completing the scheduled lens change.     [EK uses a NIKON D2Xs electronic still camera with 50mm and 180mm lenses, powered by a battery, taking pictures by remote operation from the ground, without crew interaction.  It is available for students who submit image requests and conduct geographic research.  The requests are uplinked in a camera control file to the SSC-20 ThinkPad A31p laptop which then activates the camera at specified times and receives the digital images from the camera’s storage card on its hard drive, for subsequent downlink via OpsLAN.  The camera battery is changed when no pictures are being taken.  EKAM uses new software on SSC-20 which replaces the version used for the DCS 760 camera. This is the first use of the D2Xs camera by EKAM and the first time that any images will be taken from the WORF. Students around the world are anxiously awaiting use of the higher resolution images.]
 
 Scott filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).      [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 FE-2 &amp; FE-4 were scheduled for their pre-EVA PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Oleg at ~10:15am, Dima at ~10:30am EST.
 
 At ~3:15am EST, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
 At ~7:10am, Nespoli conducted a tagup with the ESA staff at Col-CC at Oberpfaffenhofen/Germany.    [This conference is scheduled once every week, between ISS crewmembers and Col-CC via S/G2 (Space-to-Ground 2) audio.]
 
 At ~9:30am, all six crewmembers participated in a NASA PAO TV downlink for a Russian educational event with the Sevenoaks School at Sevenoaks, Kent, United Kingdom.
 
 At ~12:40pm, Scott had his regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
 At ~2:15pm, the six crewmembers were scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director or ISS at JSC/MCC-Houston.
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4).
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded today were Melbourne – Canberra, Australia (at the specified time, the crew was to begin looking left of track for the nighttime lights of the southeastern cities of Melbourne and Canberra.  Area should have been in view for 2-3 minutes.
 
 
