
Payloads
3DMM (Three-dimensional Microbial Monitoring) module photos – The crew took a series of rack images for the ground team to use in the assessment of viable sampling locations.  Surfaces in the space station contain microbes and associated biomolecules excreted by these microorganisms. Three-dimensional Microbial Monitoring of ISS Environment (3DMM) uses DNA sequencing and other analyses to construct a 3D map of bacteria and bacterial products throughout the station. The team also plans to characterize how these microbes respond at a molecular level to specific stress conditions, including altered gravity and atmospheric composition.
Antimicrobial coatings – The crew touched coupons A-G (uncoated), then touched H-N, then took photos of each of the coupons. The experiment was set up in early January and is planned to remain deployed for a period of 6 months. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
EXPRESS (ER) rack bulb replacement – Crew retrieved spare EXPRESS light bulb assemblies and replaced non-functional bulb assemblies at ER1/locker 1, and ER5/locker 5.  EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Racks are multipurpose payload rack systems that store and support research aboard the International Space Station (ISS). The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
HRF centrifuge checkout – The crew replaced a broken centrifuge lid and changed out the tube carrier.  Following this, they performed a checkout spin for the HRF centrifuge located in HRF rack 1.  This centrifuge lid was damaged during a spin in late 2019, and its recovery brings us back to 2 functional HRF centrifuges.  These centrifuges are typically used to process blood samples before they are placed in the freezer for long-term storage.
ISS HAM pass – The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with Hisagi Junior High School, Zushi, Japan.  Some of the questions asked by the students include astronaut countermeasures for Covid-19, what the hardest part of astronaut training is, and what can be done only in space.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
ManD (Manufacturing Device) – The crew removed the previously printed item, inspected the print table and removed print residue from previous prints, and took photos of the print volume. The Manufacturing Device enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the MAND printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. MAND is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Payload NAS (Network Attached Storage) vent clean – As a routine maintenance activity, the crew performed a cleaning of the front/back/left side vents on the PL NAS system.  This is performed in order to prevent automatic shutdown of the unit due to inadequate airflow and resulting higher heat levels.  The Payload NAS is a file server with 5 hard drive bays that provides a total of 20 terabytes of raw disk space when used with 4 terabyte hard drives.  Among other capabilities, the PL NAS supports user file transfers from their machine via web browser, and allows onboard ISS systems to access a shared folder location on the NAS.
SCEM valve opening – The crew continued the setup for the SCEM facility but discovered an igniter component which may need to be replaced.  The ground team is discussing it. SCEM will be used to support the FLARE experiment. FLARE (Fire Safety in Space – Base for Safety of Future Manned Missions) is a JAXA investigation which explores the flammability of materials in microgravity. Various solid fuels are burned under different conditions and observed inside a flow tunnel. Microgravity significantly affects combustion phenomena and results are expected to contribute to the improvement of fire safety in space.
Veg-03J plant check – The crew checked the plants growing as part of Veg-03J, added water as necessary, and took photos of the plants.  Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. But future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03 uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate Extra Dwarf Pak Choi, Amara Mustard and Red Romaine Lettuce using Seed Film which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing.
Systems 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations – The crew performed several activities in preparation for the Columbus Module Upgrades EVA currently scheduled for Wednesday, January 27. The crew set up the Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) Onboard Trainer to review operation of the EMU ECWS and practice EVA Cuff Checklist procedures. Also they used the Virtual Reality Trainer (VRT) to practice Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) rescue scenarios. The crew also completed charging operations on the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Batteries (LLB).
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Service and Performance Checkout Unit (SPCU) Troubleshooting – Yesterday, after the R&R of the SPCU heat exchanger, the crew noticed water droplets near an SPCU connector. Today, the crew inspected a SPCU Gamah Fitting and determined a faulty seal to be the cause of the leak. The crew successfully replaced this seal and performed a leak check on the unit. Following the leak check, crew completed installation of the SPCU insulation and closeout of the worksite.
Water Storage System Resupply Tank Swap – The ISS crew performed a change out of the Water Resupply Tank installed in slot 1 and in slot 2 of the Water Storage System (WSS). The WSS improves the existing resupply/waste water management and iodinated water storage capabilities on ISS.

