
Burning and Suppression of Solids – Milliken (BASS-M):  Prior to performing the first BASS-M operations today, there was an anomaly with the display overlay, which provides real time data with the downlinked images.  Kopra successfully completed a procedure that resolved the same issue that occurred during BASS-M setup earlier this week.  He then completed the first BASS-M operations, preparing and testing different samples with ground assistance from the Principal Investigator.  Ground experts are developing additional steps to avoid a recurrence of the display issue.  The BASS-M investigation tests flame-retardant cotton fabrics to determine how well they resist burning in microgravity.  Results benefit research on flame-retardant textiles that can be used on Earth and in space.
 
Low Earth Orbiting Navigation Experiment for Spacecraft Testing Autonomous Rendezvous and Docking (LONESTAR):  Peake opened the outer hatch of the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock and extended the Airlock Slide Table out to the JEM Exposed Facility.  Ground controllers then used the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) with the attached Small Fine Arm (SFA) to grapple Cyclops/LONESTAR, maneuvered them into position and deployed LONESTAR.  LONESTAR contains satellites AggieSat4 (built by Texas A&M University students) and Bevo-2 (built by University of Texas students).  In approximately 31 days, AggieSat4 will eject the BEVO-2 satellite.  Both satellites will then perform cross-linking communications, exchange data, link to GPS, and transmit to ground radio stations.  LONESTAR is used to further develop and refines autonomous navigation, rendezvous and docking software and procedures.  Future NASA missions to destinations such as asteroids and other celestial bodies require the use of autonomous navigation systems.
 
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Cargo Operations:  Kopra and Peake completed transferring Cygnus cargo to ISS.  The crew will start loading trash into Cygnus next week.  Cygnus is scheduled to unberth from ISS on February 19th.
 
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Fault:  This morning, the Lab CDRA experienced a fault associated with its Fan Motor Controller.  After data review, ground specialists successfully restarted the Lab CDRA.  CO2 levels remained within acceptable limits.  The Node 3 CDRA had experienced a fault with its Fan Motor Controller on January 19th and is currently deactivated.
 

