
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Maintenance:  In preparation for CIR maintenance activities, Wilmore reviewed overview materials, set up and configured the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) and gathered tools.  The crew then removed the Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) from the CIR Combustion Chamber, and restrained it to the MWA Work Surface Area. Inside the MDCA CIA, the crew replaced the MDCA Igniter Tips and the MDCA Fiber Arm. On the front of the MDCA CIA, the MDCA Fuel Reservoir in Location 2 was replaced. Finally, the MDCA CIA was installed back into the CIR Combustion Chamber. 
Circadian Rhythms:  Cristoforetti completed her third 36 hour Circadian Rhythms session and removed the equipment. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers. 
Ocular Health:  Virts performed his flight day 60 Ocular Health ultrasound and cardiac sessions.  Cristoforetti helped perform ultrasound scans on the eyes of Virts. The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. Cristoforetti helped Virts conduct a cardiac echo as part of the Ocular Health data collection. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixtures (CSLM)-4:  Virts processed the third of six sample processing units (SPU) and started to configure the fourth SPU.  For each run, the crew will configure valves and connections to vent the SPU and water lines, start the automated processing sequence, transfer experiment data and exchange the processed SPU with a new one after each sample run.  During configuration of the fourth SPU, CSLM experienced an issue.  The ground prepared a troubleshooting procedure which Virts was able to successfully execute.  Teams are planning to execute sample 4 tomorrow.  CSLM-4 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount (low volume fraction) of tin branch-like (i.e., dendritic) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature (i.e., isothermal) conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.
Human Research Facility Rack HRF)-2 Supply Kit Resupply:   Cristoforetti demated umbilicals to allow rotation of a Columbus rack to gain access to the HRF Supply Kit stow location.  The crew removed expired limited life items, re-stocked HRF supplies, took and downlinked photos. The rack was rotated to its original configuration and umbilicals mated.  
SpaceX-5 Dragon Cargo Transfer:  Cristoforetti continued with SpaceX-5 Dragon cargo operations. The crew has completed ~40 hours of the estimated 65 hours needed to unpack then pack Dragon cargo.  As of today, all cargo has been unloaded from the Dragon.  The crew is scheduled to begin loading Dragon on Monday, although they may elect to do some loading over the weekend.  A large percentage of the SpaceX cargo operations completed so far has been worked via the task list rather than as scheduled time during the crew work day.

