
FIR/LMM/Biophysics-5-2 Plate Installation: The crew installed Biophysics Plate s/n 2002 onto the PACE (Preliminary Advanced Colloids Experiment) LED Base inside the FIR/LMM (Fluids Integrated Rack/Light Microscopy Module) AFC (Auxiliary Fluids Container) and dispensed oil on the plate.  LMM/Biophyscs-5-2 looks at the relationship between solution convection – the movement of molecules through the fluid – and dense liquid clusters from which protein crystals can form.  The main objective of the investigation is to understand why protein crystallization experiments in microgravity have often generated unexpectedly low or high numbers of crystals. Both of these outcomes may negatively affect experiments designed to obtain a small number of well-separated crystals for x-ray structure studies. 
Refabricator Payload Overview: The crew performed a review of the “Big Picture Words” message and crew procedure for the Refabricator hardware installation. The Refabricator’s objective is to demonstrate a unique process for repeatable, closed-loop recycling of a polyetherimide/polycarbonate plastic material for additive manufacturing in the microgravity environment of the ISS. Eventually, Refabricator type hardware could recycle waste plastic materials into high quality 3D-printer filament, providing the potential for sustainable fabrication, repair, and recycling capabilities on long-duration space missions. This hardware represents a key component of NASA’s In-Space Manufacturing (ISM) technology development roadmap. 
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM): The BEAM stowage activities continued today in order to transfer items from Pressure Mating Adapter (PMA)-2 over to BEAM then collect surface and air samples for microbial analysis. Once complete, the crew closed the Node2 Forward hatch, reinstalled the BEAM hatch, and closed the Node 3 Aft Hatch. BEAM is an experimental expandable module, which has been attached to the ISS since April of 2016. Expandable modules weigh less and take up less room on a rocket than a traditional module, while providing additional space on-orbit for living and working.
Northrop Grumman 10 (NG-10) Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued to perform Cygnus cargo operations today. Ground teams estimate ~23 hours of cargo operations remain prior to Cygnus departure currently planned for February 12.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday afternoon, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off the Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF4 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) onto the MBS PDGF1. They then maneuvered the SSRMS as required to perform a video survey of the Latching End Effector A (LEE-A) snare cables.  Once the survey was complete, SSRMS was maneuvered to walk off onto MBS PDGF4 and then on Node2 PDGF.

