
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Setup Part 2:  Kelly attempted the final setup for the ELF facility.  He was only able to connect one of four Quick Disconnects (QDs) due to accessibility.  Ground teams are reviewing downlinked imagery to determine the next steps to complete connection of the MTL and Gaseous Nitrogen (GN2) supply and return lines. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials employing containerless processing techniques that use the electrostatic levitation method with charged samples and electrodes. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
 
Ocular Health: Kopra and Peake completed their Flight Day 30 Ocular Health activities this morning, performing both ocular and cardiac ultrasound scans.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) Task Board 4 Removal:  Earlier this month, the RRM Task Board 4 and the Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) was placed on the JEMAL Slide Table and last week the table was retracted and JEMAL repressed.  Today, Peake removed the Task Board and RMCT and packed them for return on a future flight.  Robotic Refueling Mission (RRM) is an external International Space Station (ISS) investigation that demonstrates and tests the tools, technologies and techniques needed to robotically refuel, repair, and upgrade satellites in space, especially satellites that were not designed to be serviced.
 
Observation Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS) Removal:  Kelly started removal of OASIS from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  Ground teams are developing a timeline and troubleshooting plan for one of the camera focusing axes.  Removal of OASIS took longer than expected, mainly due to the amount of hardware that needed to be restowed, and will be completed next week.  After OASIS removal is completed next week, the crew will insert the Burning and Suppression of Solids-Milliken (BASS-M) experiment into the MSG.  Observation and Analysis of Smectic Islands In Space (OASIS) studies the unique behavior of liquid crystals in microgravity, including their overall motion and the merging of crystal layers known as smectic islands. Liquid crystals are used for display screens in televisions and clocks, and they also occur in soaps and in cell membranes. The experiment allows detailed studies of the behavior of these structures, and how microgravity affects their unique ability to act like both a liquid and a solid crystal.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Conductivity Test: Today, Kopra tested the conductivity of water samples obtained earlier this week from EMUs 3008 and 3011.  The results were reported as expected.
 
ISS Medical Accessory Kit (IMAK) Unpack: Kopra unpacked the IMAK kits delivered on Orbital-ATK-4 (OA-4).  He distributed the crew personal IMAKs, resupplied earwear, resupplied ISS Medical Kits, and prepacked controlled medications for return to ground on SpaceX-8 (SpX-8).
 

