All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – rest day for CDR Fincke, FE-1 Lonchakov &amp; FE-2 Magnus.
 
 CDR Fincke's first activity this morning was to start on the second day of his FD120 (Flight Day 120) session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, after the overnight 8-hr fast.  This was an all-day session, the fourth for Mike, of collecting blood samples (assisted by FE-2 Magnus) plus urine samples several times until termination tomorrow after 24 hrs.    [The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.] 
 
 FE-1 Lonchakov &amp; FE-2 Magnus performed their part of the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning in the US &amp; Russian Segments.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.] 
 
 For today's VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) programs, Sandra Magnus first set up the HD (High Definition) camcorder for recording a live video of her real time interaction with EPO (Educational Program Operation) activities, then went through an EPO demo of using spacesuits.
 
 For his VolSci part, CDR Fincke later activated (then turned off) the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) in order to de-install and stow the finished SHERE payload equipment.  Fincke then set up for another VolSci LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System) session, using LOCAD-PTS Gram+ LAL Cartridges for swabbing surface samples in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) at the Airlock handle, handle-to-tray DMS2-4 (overhead) and return grill (A2D) return grill (Aft Deck).    [LOCAD uses small, thumb-sized “microfluidic” cartridges that are read by the experiment Reader.  The cartridges contain dried extract of horseshoe crab blood cells (LAL/Limulus amebocyte lysate) and colorless dye.  LAL tests are used for the detection and quantification of bacterial endotoxins: in the presence of the bacteria, the dried extract reacts strongly to turn the dye a green color. Therefore, the more green dye, the more microorganisms there are in the original sample.  Glucans are complex carbohydrate (sugar, D-glucose) macromolecules.  The handheld device tests this new analysis technology by sampling for the presence of gram negative bacteria in the sample in about 15 minutes, showing the results on a display screen.  Background: Lab-on-a-Chip technology has an ever-expanding range of applications in the biotech industry.  Chips are available (or in development) which can also detect yeast, mold, and gram positive bacteria, identify environmental contaminants, and perform quick health diagnostics in medical clinics.  The technology has been used to swab the MERs (Mars Exploration Rovers) for planetary protection.  With expanded testing on ISS, began by Sunita Williams in March/April last year, this compact technology has broad potential applications in space exploration--from monitoring environmental conditions to monitoring crew health. The current study should prepare for long-duration exploration by demonstrating a system that enables the crew to perform biochemical analysis in space without having to return samples to Earth.] 
 
 Lonchakov configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment and conducted the session, his third, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop, equipped with new software, and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  Obtained test data were then downlinked via OCA.     [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember's electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.] 
 
 The FE-1 also performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM and FGB by cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting the POTOK in automatic mode.
 
 Magnus completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC (Station Support Computer) laptops.
 
 In the US A/L (Airlock), Sandy also terminated the regeneration of METOX (Metal Oxide) EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) CO2 removal canisters #0020 &amp; #0021 in the “bake-out” oven, then re-stowed the regenerated cans for use in the upcoming 15A spacewalks.
 
 Afterwards, the FE-2 completed the daily flushing of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser).   [The PWD had been found, via several microbial analyses by Magnus, to have bacteria growing in the ambient water leg.  Latest microbial results indicate that not enough iodine may get into the system to kill off any microbes, since the amount of 250 mL used lately did not take into account the filter and, as ground testing has shown, it takes about 24 hours for the iodine to convert to iodide when left stagnant in a filter like the one used in the PWD.  The amount of iodinated flush water was today increased to 1 L per flush, through next Wednesday (1/28). Results TBD.] 
 
 Yuri completed the routine daily servicing of the SM's SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from US CWC to Russian EDV containers) if condensate is available.] 
 
 At ~9:00am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 The station residents completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 Working off the Russian discretionary “time permitting” suggestions list, the FE-1 conducted another session for Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.
 
 Also from the discretionary task list, Lonchakov performed a session of the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program, using the NIKON D2X digital camera to take telephotos.    [Uplinked target zones were the Falkland Current, glaciers of the Patagonia northern ice field, bright mudflow line runs from the slope of Huascaran volcano, a trace of a 1970 disaster, and the Coast of Cuba.] 
 
 A third voluntary task for Yuri was  the routine service on the Matryoshka-R radiation payload via its Lulin-5 electronics box, checking and adjusting date/time, taking readings and entering time tag.
 
 A discretionary task item on the “job jar” list for CDR Fincke continues to be filling out his fourth FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).
 
 Reboost Update:   The next ISS reboost with one or both SM main engines on 2/4 is currently on temporary hold until results from the last SM reboost on 1/14 (which showed higher-than-usual structural oscillations) have been reviewed in depth. Near-term reboosts are planned to adjust orbital phasing (central angle) of the station for Shuttle/15A, Progress/32P and Soyuz/18S rendezvous.  Reboosts by Progress on DC1 &amp; SM aft end port or by the Shuttle are not on hold. 
 
 
