
Ocular Health (OH) Tonometry Examination:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata acting as Crew Medical Officer (CMO) helped measure Hopkins’s blood pressure and vital signs and then conducted a vision and tonometry test on Hopkins. This was Hopkins’s Flight Day 120 session, which is the final session he will conduct on-orbit for this test. The Ocular Health protocol is a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment / intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES)–Slosh:  Hopkins and FE-5 Mastracchio conferenced with ground teams to discuss their test run for SPHERES-Slosh. Mastracchio set up the 3DA1 camera prior to the test run. The SPHERES-Slosh investigation hardware includes a pill shaped transparent lexan tank, an aluminum support structure with attach points for the SPHERES satellites, and electronics including several digital cameras. The Slosh test objectives include determining the inertia values about the principal axes of the SPHERES-Slosh experiment, characterizing the performance of the 24 thrusters on the SPHERES-Slosh system given thruster plume impingement, performing translation, rotation, and pitch open-loop maneuvers to provide benchmarking data for the behavior of fluids in a microgravity environment. After the test run the data will be downlinked and the 3DA1 camera will be deactivated.
Cosmo Shoot Operations:  Wakata set up the Cosmo Shoot laptop and 4K camera this morning in the Cupola to prepare for capturing images of the Earth surface. Later in the day, he removed the hardware and temporarily stowed it back in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM).
Node 2 Endcone Cleanout: Wakata cleaned out the Node 2 Endcone in preparation to use the location for prepacking cargo for return on SpaceX-3.

