
Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI)-1 Autostop and Recovery: MELFI-1 went to Autostop mode Friday evening (during crew sleep). The Cold Stowage team performed troubleshooting including a rack reboot but remained in autostop.   Failure signature had anomalous values on the 120 and 28 volt inputs, as well as failure statuses on multiple Motor Drive Electronics (MDE) status bits. This is similar to the power supply failures seen in previous Electronic Unit failures (Failures #2, 3 & 5). The decision was made to perform an Electronic Unit swap.  The failed unit (S/N 15) was replaced by the MELFI 1 Spare (S/N 11).  During the repair activity, the crew released a small amount of ITCS fluid when removing the return line QD from the UIP. The crew corrected the QD with the standard rotate and tap steps. They also noted significant moisture around the water connections at the Brayton motor QDs in the coldbox, however this is expected as the cold lines collect condensate. The crew commented on corrosion around one of the electrical connections in the coldbox area.  Photos were taken for review.  When installing the Spare EU in the Prime position, the crew was unable to seat the bottom right fastener (#2 in the procedure).  The remaining 7 fasteners were connected and the EU is secure in the rack.  The warmest temperatures seen per Dewar were: Dewar 1: -75C, Dewar 2: -73.9C, Dewar 3: -76.4C, Dewar 4: +3.5C, and ground teams do not anticipate any loss of science from this EU failure. 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 1 Configuration: Earlier today the crew configured the LMM for the Biophysics science runs in the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR). The Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-1 (ACE-T-1) Module was removed from the FIR then the LMM Control Base and LMM objective lenses were installed and configured inside the LMM Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC). Finally the LMM Petri Base was installed into the AFC. LMM Biophysics 1 (The Effect of Macromolecular Transport of Microgravity Protein Crystallization) will launch on SpaceX-10. When installed, investigators will use the results from LMM Biophysics 1 to examine the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity. By studying the crystals of a higher quality that can be grown in microgravity, scientists will be able to better understand their structure and how they work. 
Fluid Shifts Chibis Imaging Day 2: One of the 49S subjects performed their second portion of Chibis imaging. The subject donned the Chibis device, and while the crewmember was exposed to the negative pressure (pulling the fluid feetward), then with ground and onboard operator support they configured the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and the Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) hardware, before completing a DPOAE test, OCT exam, and a Tonometry exam. The purpose of this investigation is to characterize the space flight-induced fluid shift, including intra- and extravascular shifts, intra- and extracellular shifts, changes in total body water and lower vs. upper body shifts. Noninvasive techniques are used to assess arterial and venous dimensions and flow parameters, ocular pressure and structure, and changes in intracranial pressure. Lower body negative pressure is being investigated for its ability to mitigate some of the effects of the space flight-induced fluid shift. Results from this investigation are expected to help define the causes of the ocular structure and vision changes associated with long duration space flight, and assist in the development of countermeasures. 
Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Reconfiguration: After the successful removal of the MDCA from the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) last week, the crew began the reconfiguration to the Cool Flames Investigation (CFI). Today, the crew removed the MDCA Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) from the Combustion Chamber and restrained it to the MWA. The crew then disabled the ignitor pressure switch and replaced the MDCA internal components. The Combustion Chamber was then reinstalled in the CIR. Reconfiguration activities will continue tomorrow.  CFI provides new insight into the phenomenon where some types of fuels initially burn very hot, then appear to go out — but they continue burning at a much lower temperature, with no visible flames (cool flames). Understanding cool flame combustion helps scientists develop new engines and fuels that are more efficient and less harmful to the environment.
Node 3 (N3) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Research Valve Install:  The crew removed the Air Selector Valve (ASV)-104 valve from the N3 CDRA and install a new CDRA Developmental Research Valve.  This new Research Valve was developed to improve CDRA valve operational lifetime.  The valve was delivered on HTV-6 and has the same interfaces, form, fit and function as the existing valve design.  The removed ASV-104 valve will be stowed as an on-orbit spare. 
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  Overnight, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered on the SSRMS and maneuvered it to grapple the H-II Transfer Vehicle 6 (HTV6) External Platform (EP) grappled by the Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload/Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA).  After the POA released the EP, they maneuvered SSRMS to move and insert EP in the HTV6 Unpressurized Logistics Carrier (ULC) where it was latched and SSRMS was maneuvered to release the EP.   Finally, SSRMS was maneuvered to perform a survey of the HTV6 Earth Sensor Assembly (ESA) unit B before grappling HTV6 Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) in preparation of HTV6 release and re-entry scheduled for Friday 27-January. 
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Collection: The crew conducted ITCS fluid sampling from the Lab Low Temperature Loop (LTL) sample port. This maintenance is performed periodically to monitor the quality of the water in the ITCS loops.

