
Cosmo Shoot Operations:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata has set up the Cosmo Shoot laptop and 4K camera in the Cupola to capture images of the Earth surface.  He later removed the hardware and temporarily stowed it in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM).
ENERGY (Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight):  FE-3 Hopkins has started his standardized diet protocol for a 10 day session of ESA’s ENERGY experiment.  Measurements have been taken of his oxygen uptake during rest periods, urine collections will be performed and Hopkins will log all food and drink consumed.  A loss in an astronauts’ body mass is common during space flight.  ENERGY measures changes in the energy balance in crewmembers as a result of long term space flight.  It also measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers, so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge is of great importance to ensure optimal crew health and performance, overall mission success, and to ensure adequate exercise load and cargo allotments for food are provided while the crew is on-orbit.
Retractable Equipment Tether (RET) Inspection and Tool Transfer:  Yesterday, FE-5 Mastracchio performed a RET inspection in preparation for today’s transferring of the hardware to the Russian crewmembers for use on Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 37A.  Overnight, engineering reviewed the pictures from the Bungee Caddies and as a result could not clear them for use with pictures alone.  Ground teams are currently working on a plan to perform additional inspections on this hardware. In the meantime, in order to get the tools transferred to the RS on time, the crew inspected unmounted RETs to use in place of the mounted RETs.  All unmounted RETs passed inspection and were included in the EVA tool transfer to the RS today.  RS EVA 37A is currently planned for January 27th.
Sound Level Meter (SLM) Operations: Mastracchio performed SLM measurements throughout the ISS, collecting acoustic readings in JEM Pressurized Module (JPM), Cygnus, Columbus, Node 2, Lab, Cupola, Node 1, Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)-1, Mini Research Module (MRM)-1, and the Service Module (SM).  The data collected will be downlinked and reviewed by specialists to determine if any mitigation steps are required for the various modules.
Carbon Dioxide Removal System (CDRA) Leak Check: Ground controllers completed a series of leak checks on the Node 3 CDRA as part of an ongoing investigation into the moisture observed in Sabatier CO2 accumulator.  The procedure checked for leaks of the volume between each of the Adsorbent/Desiccant beds and the CO2 shutoff valve.  Initial review of the data showed no gross leaks.

