
Columbus Cycle 14 Transition: Col-CC operations to transition the ground and onboard Columbus systems from software version 13 to 14 is proceeding nominally.  Columbus cycle 14 made improvements to the system stability and robustness, incorporated provisions for Solid State Recorder (SSD) coming up on ATV-5, the Video Data Processing Unit (VDPU) MkII, new external payload High Definition Earth Viewing (HDEV) arriving on SpX-3 and RapidSCAT on SpX-4.
Story Time From Space:  FE-3 Hopkins gathered materials, set up a camcorder and read the children’s book Max Goes to the Space Station and Max Goes to the Moon.  This is the second and third book readings for Story Time From Space, which combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crewmembers will read a total of five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit and complete simple science concept experiments. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials on the Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS) Academy educational website.
ISS SERVIR Environmental Research and Visualization System (ISERV) Preparation:  A new pointing mount for ISERV was launched on Orb-1 that will replace a failed pointing mount.  Today, Hopkins and FE-6 Wakata reviewed the procedures to partially remove the ISERV hardware from WORF, detach the failed pointing mount from the telescope tube, attach the new pointing mount, and then reinstall.  Following the procedure review Hopkins and Wakata had a conference with the Principal Investigator on the ground to discuss details of the procedure and to answer any questions.  ISERV automatically takes images of Earth through a small telescope with an off-the-shelf digital camera mounted in the US Laboratory module. There is a significant and persistent need for image data to support environmental decision-making, and to assess and monitor the impact of disasters and other significant events of the Earth surface. The unique attributes of the ISS, both in terms of orbital characteristics and available human and infrastructure support, make it a highly desirable platform from which to acquire these data.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool and Hardware Transfer: FE-5 Mastracchio and Commander Kotov transfered and stowed USOS EVA tools and cameras that were used during yesterday’s RS EVA 37A.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Water Container Remove and Replace (R&R): Mastracchio performed routine maintenance on the WHC by R&R of the Water Container [ЕДВ]. Following the R&R he manually filled the Flush Water Tank using the Hydraulic Interface Control Panel.
USOS Food Warmer Troubleshooting – Part 2: In an effort to gain confidence in the Express Rack 6 Locker 8 location, the crew moved the deployed spare food warmer S/N 1004 from the PS-28 strip plugged into Express Rack 6 Locker 3 to Express Rack 6 Locker 8. Food Warmer S/N 1001, which has been tripping the in the locker 8 location, was disconnected for now.

