
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom 3:
Outreach and Payload Activities: Three ESA sponsored Ice Cube events were completed today, including a joint event for Marcus Wandt and ISS Commander Andy Mogensen with the European Space Conference.  Additional outreach events included a live event with a Swedish Newspaper, Aftonbladet, and an event between Michael López-Alegría and the American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) International.   The crew also completed activities associated with ISS National Lab sponsored payloads including Beta Amyloid Aggregation, Cancer in LEO, VOKALKORD, Extremophyte CRISPR, Pranet Algal, Imaging of Lightning and Nighttime phenomena from Space (ILAN-ES), MESSAGE, and questionnaires for multiple payloads. Marcus Wandt performed multiple ESA sponsored investigations including Sleep in Orbit, Surface Avatar, CIMON, and Bone Health.  In addition, Walter Villadei received Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) handover training from an ISS Crewmember and performed a CEVIS exercise session.
Payloads:
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (SCEM): A leak check was performed on the N2 supply line and the Gas Bottle Unit. The SCEM is designed to investigate the oxygen concentration required to sustain a flame over solid fuels. It is also possible to obtain the limiting electric current caused by self-ignition of the insulated wires due to short-circuit. Through studies using SCEM, combustion characteristics of solid materials in the microgravity environment where no buoyancy-induced convection occurs will be identified, as well as the effect of gravity on the combustion limit of solid materials.
STEMonstrations: A STEMonstrations video was recorded explaining and demonstrate momentum and impulse. Concepts for K-12 audiences. STEMonstrations are short, three to five minute educational videos that demonstrate popular K-12 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) topics in microgravity. Each STEMonstration includes materials to help teachers explore the topics in their classrooms.
Beta Amyloid Aggregation (Ax-3): In a continuation of the experiment, the green and blue experiment kits were inserted into a Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) to be frozen. The aim of this experiment is to investigate the effects of microgravity on the aggregation of Aβ peptides. This research is important because it could help to identify potential risks for astronauts who spend long periods of time in space. It could also lead to new insights into the mechanisms of Alzheimer’s Disease and other neurodegenerative diseases characterized by protein accumulation, ultimately helping develop new treatments and prevention strategies.
Bone Health (Ax-3): The crew donned the Actibelt experiment hardware and performed a data collection session. The Assessment of Bone Turn-over and Bone Morphology – Is There a Post Re-entry Bone Loss in Short-duration Mission Crew Members? (Bone Health) investigation studies the existence, or non-existence, of protracted bone loss after short-duration spaceflight (up to two months). While such protracted bone loss is well established in experimental bed-rest studies (a ground-based analog of microgravity), such losses could not be found after long-term spaceflight. To assess the underlying effects, both radiological as well as biochemical methods of studying bone loss are used.
Cancer in Low Earth Orbit-2 (Ax-3): Experiment samples were loaded in the KEyence Research MIcroscope Testbed (KERMIT) microscope for observation and imaging. Cancer in Low Earth Orbit-2 expands on previous research to develop models that predict potential development of cancers. Such models may contribute to developing countermeasures that mitigate cancer risk on future space missions and tools for detecting and treating cancer and other diseases on Earth.
Extremophyte Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)(Ax-3): Experiment petri dishes were set up in the Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG), the infiltration solution was applied to the petri dishes, and the petri dishes were returned to their staging location. Extreme Salt Stress and CRISPR Gene Editing Efficiency in Plants Under Microgravity (Extremophyte CRISPR) tests the salt stress tolerance of two species of plants and examines how microgravity affects the CRISPR gene editing method. Results could lead to the use of these plants and CRISPR to enhance stress resistance in plants intended for use in life support and other systems during future long-duration space missions.
Orbital Architecture (Ax-3): The crew filled out an Orbital Architecture questionnaire using the EveryWear app and performed a cognitive assessment test. These questionnaires are designed to assess the perceived sleep quality and stress levels. The space habitats current and future astronauts live in can influence their mental performance and their stress. This investigation studies how architectural properties influence mental capacities and stress and will try to inform the design of future space habitats using evidence-based tests.
Propolis Effect and Algae (Ax-3): Photos were taken of the algae growing in the six Pranet Algal experiment petri dishes. The Ax-3 crew also retrieved the twelve Propoli-Pranet experiment petri dishes and set them up to prepare for experiment activities. Propolis Effect and Algae is actually the combination of 2 experiments: Propoli-Pranet and Pranet Algal. Pranet Algal aims to examine the growth of extremophilic microalgae life in temperate conditions such as the space environment and to observe how they react during their growth. This is important because microalgae could not only serve as a source of food but also improve air quality and waste treatment for future space missions and habitation on Mars or the Moon. Propoli-Pranet aims to investigate the effectiveness of propolis extract on bacteria in a microgravity environment. If propolis proves to be similarly effective in microgravity as it was in a previous experiment using propolis antibacterial wipes in microgravity, this could open the door for use of propolis as a natural antibacterial option in space.
Surface Avatar Checkout (Ax-3): The Ax-3 crew reviewed the big picture words (BPW), set up the experiment hardware, and performed a checkout session. In this version of the experiment, the Ax-3 crew will command a team of robots in a simulated extraterrestrial surface habitat on Earth. The Surface Avatar: Multi-Avatar and Robots Collaborating with Intuitive Interface (Surface Avatar) investigation evaluates how effectively multiple robots can be commanded in scalable autonomy under conditions in space. Surface Avatar also seeks to provide information on how well the robot operator responds to haptic feedback, and – crucially – what the challenges and sticking points are for a real orbit-to-ground setup to operate robots remotely.
Systems:
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Installation and Checkout: The crew installed the CBCS onto the Node 1 Nadir (N1N) port in preparation for NG-20 launch and berth to the ISS. The CBCS is a camera system used to provide relative state information to the SSRMS operator. The SSRMS operator uses the camera view as a physical check of the arm and vehicle alignment before giving Ready to Latch (RTL) indicators to begin berthing. NG-20 is scheduled to launch on Monday, January 29th, and berth to the ISS on Wednesday, January 31st.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Operations: As part of standard maintenance, the crew performed EMU activities. These activities included an EMU Swap, an EMU Helmet Clean, a High Definition (HD) EMU Camera (HECA) Installation, and a Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Hardware Checkout. These activities ensure that EVA hardware is ready to support both planned and unplanned EVAs.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Node 1 Starboard Aft Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Fan Cleaning: As part of routine maintenance, the crew cleaned the Node 1 Starboard IMV Fan Inlet, Silencer, Vestibule Jumper, and Flexible Ventilation Duct. The IMV is responsible for moving air between modules so that ideal atmospheric conditions are maintained throughout the ISS.
