
Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) Change Out: Today, Wilmore successfully replaced RPCM LAD11B_A located in Lab Avionics Rack 2.  On January 15th, the RPCM had experienced a failure with a switch that provides power to Video Switching Unit (VSU)-1.   VSU-1 is responsible for processing 3 of 6 possible external camera views and is also needed for sending video to the Lab Robotics Work Station (RWS) monitors.  VSU-1 has been re-activated and is operating nominally.
Aniso Tubule:  Wilmore transferred temperature logging data of Ansio Tubule Bio Dosimeters to the Multi purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) laptop.  The data will be downlinked by ground commanding. Aniso Tubule will examine growth modifications of Arabidopsis hypocotyls in space. Scientists aim to analyze the changes in dynamics of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins by observing Arabidopsis hypocotyls and microtubule-associated proteins with a fluorescence microscope.
Advanced Plant Experiment (APEX):  After reviewing the APEX-03 harvest #1 procedure, Wilmore prepared the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) for use, gathered the APEX hardware and configured the Advanced Biological Research System (ABRS) photo grid.  The crew then retrieved the APEX fixation tube kit from the General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) and proceeded to harvest and fix the first set of plants from five petri plates which have been growing for seven days in the Veggie facility.  The petri plates were secured to the ABRS Photogrid, imagery taken and files transferred for downlink to the experiment teams on the ground. The plants were removed from the petri plates and placed in the APEX harvest kit for fixation.  A second harvest will take place in another seven days.   APEX-03 continues a highly successful investigation into the effects of microgravity on the development of roots and cells on plant seedlings. The experiment photographs seedlings of Arabidopsis, or thale cress, every two hours as they grow in petri dishes. After 14 days, the seedlings are preserved for return to Earth and detailed analysis.
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixtures (CSLM)-4:  Virts began processing the second of six CSLM-4 runs and configured the third sample processing units (SPU).  Over the next week, six CSLM SPUs will be processed in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and prepared for return on SpaceX-5.   For each run, the crew will configure valves and connections to vent the SPU and water lines, start the automated processing sequence, transfer experiment data and exchange the processed SPU with a new one after each sample run.  CSLM-4 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount (low volume fraction) of tin branch-like (i.e., dendritic) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature (i.e., isothermal) conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.
Ocular Health (OH):  Acting as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO), Cristoforetti set up and performed a blood pressure measurement and tonometry test on Virts as part of his flight day 60 regular series of exams for Ocular Health.  The Ocular Health protocol is a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment / intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines
Nanorack plate reader removal:  Virts removed the NanoRacks Plate Reader from the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack, packed it for return, and stowed accessories for later use when a refurbished Plate Reader unit returns to ISS.
POLAR Dessicant Swap:  Cristoforetti replaced the used dessicant packs in the POLAR with fresh packs.
Bone and Muscle Check: Cristoforetti collected Saliva and urine samples to support Bone and Muscle Check.   Salivary Markers of Metabolic Changes during Space Missions (Check-Saliva) tests crewmembers’ saliva, blood, and urine before, during and after spaceflight to study whether saliva tests can serve as reliable health monitors. Microgravity reduces bone and muscle mass, which is related to changes in certain substances in the bloodstream and urine. Some of these changes can also be detected in saliva samples. Tests using Check-Saliva can validate whether saliva and/or urine can be used as simple, non-invasive tools to monitor crewmembers’ bone and muscle status during a space mission
Epigenetics:   Cristoforetti reviewed materials to become familiar with sample preparation and processing for the Epigenetics experiment.  The crew retrieved 12 starter syringes and 12 culture bags from MERLIN.  The starter syringe is injected into a culture bag and repeated for all 12 samples.  The culture bags are then placed in the CBEF to start a 5 day incubation.  Six of the samples will go into the micro-g environment and the rest into a 1-g environment.  This is the first of four planned Epigenitics sessions.  The epigenetics in space flown C. elegans is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency investigation of whether adaptations to space are transmitted from one cell generation to another without changing the basic DNA of an organism. C. elegans is a millimeter-long roundworm that, like the fruit fly, is widely used as a model for larger organisms. In this investigation, four generations of the worms will be grown aboard station, with adults from each generation preserved for later study on Earth.

