
Payloads:
Acoustic Diagnostics: The crew executed the Acoustic Diagnostics software to perform AUDIO measurements in the Columbus module. The Acoustic Upgraded Diagnostics In-Orbit (AUDIO) investigation tests the hearing of ISS crew members before, during, and after flight. This study (Acoustic Diagnostics) assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments. 
Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG): A crewmember performed a Sleeve to Sleeve swap in the LSG (Life Sciences Glovebox) at the front 10″ glove port location. The LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crew members can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Plant Habitat-05: A crewmember reviewed procedures and gathered Plant Habitat-05 hardware per stowage note in preparation for the Media Transfer 1 activity. Unlocking the Cotton Genome to Precision Genetics (Plant Habitat-05) cultivates several cotton genotypes that differ in their ability to regenerate into whole plants from undifferentiated masses of cells known as a calli. Cotton is highly resistant to the process of plant regeneration, making it difficult to engineer stable, reproducing plants that have specific or enhanced traits such as drought resistance. The investigation could provide a better understanding of this behavior and a pathway to avert this problem.
Rodent Research-18 (RR-18): Rodent Research Habitats 1 and 2 were stowed. Astronauts returning from space can experience eye problems, along with headaches and blurred vision. Scientists suspect environmental conditions during spaceflight lead to oxidative stress that adversely affects the eye structure and function. Space Flight Environment Induces Remodeling of Vascular Network and Glia-vascular Communication in Mouse Retina (Rodent Research-18) investigates how spaceflight affects visual function, examining changes in the vascular system of the retina, tissue remodeling and cell-cell interactions in mice.
Sampling Quadrangle Assemblages Research Experiment (SQuARE): The crew took photos of the SQuARE experiment sites located in the Node 1 Galley, JEM, Columbus, Node 2, Node 3, and the US Lab.  SQuARE is an investigation that aims to document items within six defined locations around the ISS over time. The idea is to look at the ISS as an archaeological site, and each of the Squares as a “test pit”.
Systems: 
Water Recovery System (WRS) Contingency Water Container (CWC)-Iodine Fill: The CWC is a soft container with an inner bladder that can store a variety of liquids including humidity condensate, wastewater, and other unique fluids such as Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) wastewater. Originally, CWCs were used for the transport and resupply of potable water from the shuttle to the ISS.  Today’s activity involved transferring water from the Potable Bus into a CWC-Iodine container using the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD). Iodine was added to purify the water. 
T2 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Line Wear Inspection: The crew inspected the T2 ITCS MTL Lines and surrounding areas for any damage/abrasion and Foreign Object Debris (FOD). The ITCS provides equipment cooling, and heat rejection through a combination of water loops, and interface heat exchangers.
Quick Don Mask Assembly (QDMA) Inspection: As part of regular maintenance, the crew performed an inspection of both QDMA styles: the Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) and the Prebreathe Hose Assembly (PHA). They also performed an inflation check on both QDMA styles to verify the integrity of the hoses  The PBA supplies oxygen, eye/nose/mouth protection, and two-way communications to a crewmember during a fire, rapid depressurization, or toxic spill event.  The PHA supports crewmember Prebreathe Protocol activities ahead of an Extravehicular Activity (EVA) to prevent Decompression Sickness (DCS). Today’s QDMA inspections will ensure crew health through proper functionality of this equipment.
Lab Cable Management: Today, the crew cleaned up and organized the various cables in the Lab Module. They then took photos of the cables for ground teams to review. This maintenance helps make sure all cables connected to the Lab are in use, and any extra cables can be removed and stowed to allow for easier operations in the Lab.
Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Reconfiguration: The crew reconfigured the PPM to optimize space onboard the ISS for future cargo operations performed during the NG-17 mission. NG-17 is scheduled to dock to the ISS on February 21st.

