
Ocular Health:  Kopra and Peake performed their Flight Day 30 Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) to measure retinal thickness, and this afternoon conducted fundoscopy measurements to obtain images of the retinal surface.  By systematically gathering physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers, the Ocular Health experiment will give a better understanding of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of spaceflight and post-flight recovery.
 
Airway Monitoring:  Peake and Kopra used the Airway Monitoring equipment this morning to perform Nitric Oxide (NO) measurements at ambient pressure.  Peake performed a calibration and then three Fractional Expired Nitric Oxide (FENO) measurements.  Kopra was able to successfully perform two of his three FENO measurements due to a kinked cable, recalibrated the system and collected three Diffuse Capacity in Lungs Nitric Oxide (DLNO) measurements.  Peake completed his DLNO measurements and then powered down and stowed the Airway Monitoring equipment.  Ground teams are analyzing the downlinked data of the FENO (low NO) protocol (determines how much NO is exhaled with respiration) and the DLNO (high NO) protocol (determines how much NO is diffused into the blood).  The primary goals of the Airway Monitoring experiment is to determine how gravity and microgravity influence the turnover of Nitric Oxide (NO) in the lungs.  During future manned missions to the Moon and to Mars, airway inflammation due to toxic dust inhalation is a risk factor. Since dust may cause airway inflammation and since such inflammation can be monitored by exhaled NO (Nitric Oxide) analysis the present study is highly relevant for astronaut health in future space programs.  The next Airway Monitoring session will be scheduled at the end of February, and will utilize the reduced pressure of the Joint Airlock.
 
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Kopra gathered and transferred US tools to the Russian Segment in preparation for RS EVA #42 currently planned for February 3.
 
ISS Emergency Response On-Board Training (OBT): This training session was performed by both the ground and crew to practice ISS Emergency response based on information provided by a simulator.  During the exercise the crew practiced required actions for two cases: a fire in Mini Research Module-2 (MRM-2) and an ammonia leak in the US segment. Following the training the crew and ground teams conducted a conference to discuss questions and comments.
 
Commercial off the Shelf (COTS) Ultra High Frequency (UHF) Communications Unit (CUCU) Loop Back Test – Today, ground teams successfully checked out the path carrying UHF Radio Frequency (RF) signals to/from CUCU and Space to Space Station Radio (SSSR) to the UHF Antennas. The loop back test radiated from both the US Lab UHF and P1 UHF antennas to the CUCU.  The test was performed to obtain baseline data prior to installation of the External Wireless Communications (EWC) internal cabling, and will be repeated post EWC cable installation.  The cable installation is expected to be completed in Increment 47
 

