ISS On-Orbit Status 01/30/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – Crew rest day.   Ahead: Week 11 of Increment 26.  
 
 <ul style="margin-top: 0pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 36pt; "> <li>Sleep cycle shift:  To accommodate this last night’s docking of the new cargo ship Progress 41P, crew wake/sleep cycle changes are in effect, featuring today a very long “sleep” period from 3:30am this morning to 1:00am tomorrow, 1/31, i.e., returning to “normal”).</li></ul> 
 Yest kasaniye!    At 9:39pm EST last night, Progress M-09M/41P (#409) docked successfully to the DC1 (Docking Compartment) nadir port under precise automatic Kurs control.     [Kurs antenna retraction was nominal. Kasaniya (contact) was followed by a final DPO post-contact thrusting burn, docking probe retraction and Sborka (hook closure, ~9:59pm) after motion damp-out while the ISS was in free drift for 20 min (9:39pm-9:59pm).  At “hooks closed” signal, the SM returned to active attitude control, maneuvering the ISS to LVLH TEA (local vertical/local horizontal Torque Equilibrium Attitude).  Control authority returned to US Momentum Management at ~10:40pm.  Next were the standard 1-hr leak checking, opening of the hatches (~1:30am) and installation of the QD (quick disconnect) screw clamps (BZV) of the docking &amp; internal transfer mechanism (SSVP) to rigidize the coupling, followed by the standard air sampling inside Progress with the Russian AK-1M air sampler, powering down the spacecraft and installing the ventilation/heating air duct, taking photographs of the internal docking surfaces for subsequent downlinking, and dismantling the docking mechanism (StM, Stykovochnovo mekhanizma) between the cargo ship and the DC1.]
 
 Conjunction Alert:     Flight controllers are following a conjunction with object 37117 (COSMOS 2252 Debris) for the past 24 hours.  Tracking on the object is sparse and USSTRATCOM has increased tasking.  The small radial miss distance of the object (0.115 km) warrants close monitoring and could lead to DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) planning.  41P docking perturbations were in the noise of tracking uncertainties and thus did not have an impact on the situation.  The TCA (Time of Closest Approach) of the conjunction is during EP (Experiment Platform) robotics operation scheduled Tuesday, 2/1, morning.  The standard template of performing the DAM as close to the TCA as possible (thus buying time to cancel if not required) would place the TIG (Time of Ignition) at 3:14am EST on 2/1, which is during a period of ACS (Attitude Control System) thruster being disabled.  Initial coordination with FCT (Flight Control Team) led to an acceleration of the TIG by 3 orbits to allow the robotics operations to continue as planned.  It is assumed the decision points for PPCR and Cyclogram Go/No Go Development need to be accelerated as well.  An ISS reboost of 0.6 m/s is planned on 2/9 to set up FD3 (Flight Day) phasing for STS-133/ULF5 and 24S landing constraints.  Engineers are investigating if the DAM could replace this reboost meeting the same constraints which ensuring a safe trajectory from the conjunction.
 
 

