
ENERGY (Astronaut’s Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight):  Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins continued with his standardized diet protocol for his 10 day session of ESA’s ENERGY experiment.  Today he collected water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser in the US Laboratory module, collected a urine sample, and logged all food and drink consumed.  A loss in an astronauts’ body mass is common during space flight.  ENERGY measures changes in the energy balance in crewmembers as a result of long term space flight.  It also measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers, so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge contributes to optimal crew health and performance, overall mission success, and to adequate exercise loading and food allotments while the crew is on-orbit.
NanoRacks Module 9 Investigation:  FE-6 Wakata activated and shook designated mixing tubes today for the third of six NanoRacks Module 9 sessions.  For this investigation student teams from across the United States designed their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. This investigation is part of the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP), which is sponsored by the commercial Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education program that is overseen by the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE).  The tubes activated today were for investigations “The Effect of Microgravity of the Development of the Spotted Salamander,” “Mammalian Milk in Microgravity,” and “The Effect of Microgravity on the Oxidation of Metal Exposed to a Salt Water Solution.”
SpaceX-3 Prepack:  Wakata continued with prepacking activities in support of the upcoming SpaceX-3 mission. SpaceX-3 is scheduled to launch no earlier than March 1st and rendezvous with ISS on March 3rd.
Lab Inter-module Ventilation (IMV) Fan Cleaning:  Hopkins cleaned Lab Forward Port IMV fans. The task was performed as a result of low flow measurements taken in October 2013.  The measurement at the Lab Forward Port was 103 Cubic Feet per Minute (cfm).  The IMV flow should be greater than 115 cfm to ensure that the IMV fans are operating outside of the stall region and maintain station acoustic specification limits.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Air Hose and Liquid Indicator R&R: As part of preventative maintenance, FE-5 Mastracchio replaced WHC Hose Flexible Hose (A1-A8T) and T Adapter.

