
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR): Today, a crewmember installed the Florescence Microscope into the MSPR work volume and ground initiated a one-week checkout in preparation for Space Moss observations during the SpaceX-18 mission. The MSPR is a multipurpose payload rack system used in the JEM. It has two workspaces and a worktable that can be used for wide fields of space environment utilization including science and educational missions.
NanoRacks External Cygnus CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD): A crewmember performed photography of the NRCSD-15 mission deploys. The NRCSD is a stackable, modular, ground loaded launch case. Each NRCSD accommodates up to 6.5U and eight launch cases are stacked for each JEM Airlock opening. The NRCSD meets the growing demand to deploy CubeSat format satellites from the International Space Station for a variety of customers.
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): A crewmember replaced hardware on the ACME unit by installing a new mesh power supply and closeout panel. The ACME experiment series being performed in the CIR includes five independent studies of gaseous flames. The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth. Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability. 
Northrop Grumman 10 (NG-10) Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued Cygnus cargo operations in preparation for the vehicle departure, currently planned for February 8.   
Water Storage System (WSS) Rack: The crew configured the Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) located at LAB1D4 in preparation for WSS tank installation next Monday. In the future, WSS will improve existing resupply/waste water management and iodinated water storage capabilities on ISS. The WSS water storage tanks arrived onboard NG-10. The remaining hardware needed for the rack will be manifested on a subsequent visiting vehicle. 

