All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – rest day for CDR Fincke, FE-1 Lonchakov &amp; FE-2 Magnus.
 
 Fincke &amp; Magnus started the day with their daily download of the accumulated data of the SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight) experiment from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of another week-long session with SLEEP, their second.     [To monitor the crewmember's sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment's laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days, as part of the crew's discretionary “job jar” task list.  It is the third session for Mike, the second for Sandra.]
 
 Lonchakov performed his part of the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, focusing on the RS (Russian Segment).   ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.] 
 
 In the SM, the FE-1 later also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.] 
 
 For Mike &amp; Sandy, most of their day's schedule was taken up by performing the first BRASLET SDTO (Station Development Test Objective) protocol, with both of them subjects and assisting each other in turn during the scan sessions.      [Prior to the sessions, the protocol had called for no BRASLET cuff within 24 hrs, no caffeine within 12 hrs, no heavy meals within 4 hrs, no food or exercise at all within 2 hrs, and no liquids within 30 min.  Background:  BRASLET (Validation of On-Orbit Methodology for the Assessment of Cardiac Function and Changes in the Circulating Volume Using Ultrasound and BRASLET-M Occlusion Cuffs) is SDTO 17011, sponsored by NASA and FSA/IBMP (Russian Federal Space Agency/Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP, Dr. Valery Bogomolov).  BRASLET is testing the performance of occlusion cuffs in modifying fluid shifts that occur early during physiological transition into the space environment. Understanding the effects of this countermeasure on cardiovascular function will be useful for both medical operations and future research.  The goal of this investigation is to establish a valid ultrasound methodology for assessing a number of aspects of central and peripheral hemodynamics and cardiovascular function, specifically in rapid changes in intravascular circulating volume.  The SDTO uses BRASLET-M occlusion cuffs, which are a Russian-made operational countermeasure already pre-calibrated and available onboard for each ISS crewmember.  BRASLET uses multiple modes of ultrasound imaging and measurements, in combination with short-term application of BRASLET-M occlusive cuffs and cardiopulmonary maneuvers (Valsalva, Mueller) to demonstrate and to evaluate the degree of changes in the circulating volume on orbit.  This will be accomplished by performing echocardiographic examinations in multiple modes (including Tissue Doppler mode), ultrasound measurements of lower extremity venous and arterial vascular responses to BRASLET-M device under nominal conditions and also during cardiopulmonary Mueller and Valsalva maneuvers.  Identical measurements are being repeated without BRASLET-M, with BRASLET-M applied, and immediately after releasing the occlusion device.]
 
 At ~9:00am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 Sandy completed the daily flushing of the ER6 PWD (EXPRESS Rack 6/Potable Water Dispenser), now from a CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodinated, #1013, relabeled as Special Fluids) instead of drink bags.    [The PWD had been found, via several microbial analyses by Magnus, to have bacteria growing in the ambient water leg.  Latest microbial results indicate that not enough iodine may get into the system to kill off any microbes, since the amount of 250 mL used lately did not take into account the filter and, as ground testing has shown, it takes about 24 hours for the iodine to convert to non-biocidal iodide when left stagnant in a filter like the one used in the PWD.  The amount of iodinated flush water was reduced last Friday (1/30) to 0.5 L for the next seven days (to end 2/6).] 
 
 At ~12:55pm EST, Lonchakov powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply), including the RSK2 laptop with the WinPack 6.8 ham radio application, and at 1:15pm conducted with Fincke a radio exchange with school kids at Montreal, Canada.
 
 The station residents completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 Two voluntary tasks have been added to Mike &amp; Sandy's “job jar” task list for their choice: (a) an EVA bag audit &amp; reconfiguration for the 15A spacewalks; (b) more troubleshooting on the G1 camcorder MPC HD video system which is creating horizontal “artifacts” during downlink.   [The troubleshooting should identify if it is a problem with the HD camcorder or the tape that was used.]
 
 TOCA Update:   The TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) run to analyze a WPA (Water Processor Assembly) water sample reported yesterday was aborted due to a low pressure indication (“P1 &lt; 4.0 psig and in line flush"). Engineering team is investigating.
 
 WHC Update:   The recent (1/29) failure indication of the Dose Pump LED (light-emitting diode) of the US/Russian WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) has been narrowed down by NASA &amp; RSC-Energia specialists to a position sensor issue in the Dose Pump or a logic corruption in the ASU CP (Control Panel).  Engineers do not want to replace either the pump or the ASU CP until the failure is better understood, to avoid the risk of wasting spare hardware.  A troubleshooting activity with the crew is scheduled on 2/3.
 
 
