
Food Warmer Status: Today, Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins performed an in-flight repair of the secondary ground wire then placed Food Warmer (S/N 1001) into an alternate location (Express Rack 8 Locker 6), where it subsequently experienced an additional over current trip. Ground teams will continue developing troubleshooting plans for S/N 1001.  Meanwhile, the Crew has been instructed to use the alternate degraded warmer (S/N 1004).  S/N 1001 had been exhibiting over current conditions while installed in its previous location (Express Rack 6 Locker 8) starting on January 16th.
Preparation for Cube Satellite (CubeSat) Deploys:  FE-6 Wakata removed the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (SSOD) from the JEM Airlock Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform on the Slide Table and installed the CubeSat Deployer.  He was unable to install the electronics box due to an issue with driving in a screw to attach it.  Ground experts are developing a workaround.  These preparation activities support CubeSat deployments planned during the next three weeks.  NanoRacks CubeSats are delivered to the ISS already integrated within NanoRacks CubeSat Deployers (NRCSDs).  A crewmember will operate the JEM Remote Manipulating System (JRMS) to grapple and position the NRCSDs for deployment. CubeSats are deployed by commands received from JAXA ground controllers.
Internal Wireless Integrated System (IWIS) Remote Sensor Unit (RSU) Node3 Deploy: FE-5 Mastracchio permanently installed an IWIS accelerometer, RSU, and associated cabling in the Node 3 overhead hatch area. Cabling was routed from the hatch area to the Power Strips (PS)-120 located at Node 3 Deck 5.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Lab Refill: As part of routine maintenance, Hopkins added ITCS coolant to the  FSS Fluids Control Pump Assembly (FCPA) and the Lab Pump Package Assembly (PPA) accumulators. After FSS operations were complete, he drained and purge the FSS Fluids Control Pump Assembly (FCPA) and jumpers.
EMU Li-Ion Battery (LLB) 3004 Troubleshooting: Mastracchio worked with ground teams in order to perform troubleshooting on LLB S/N 3004, which is currently No-Go for EVA  based on a previous auto cycle recharging activity. Ground teams will be evaluating today’s results to determine the health of the EMU LLB.
Control Moment Gyroscope (CMG) Gimbal Maintenance: Today, during the Russian attitude control period for the Progress 52P propellent purge, gimbal maintenance was performed for CMGs 1 and 2.  The inner gimbals of CMGs 1 and 2 were commanded through their full 360 degrees of travel, satisfying a 5 year requirement for full inner gimbal rotation.

