
Payloads:
ADvanced Space Experiment Processor (ADSEP): The ADSEP hardware was installed and activated. A Tissue Cassette was inserted for equipment check out. ADSEP is a thermally controlled single-middeck-locker equivalent that accommodates up to three cassette-based experiments that can be independently operated. Its companion hardware consists of a collection of several experiment cassettes, each doubly or triply contained, that accommodate experiments in cell technology, model organisms, multiphase fluids, solution chemistry, separation science, microencapsulation, and crystal growth.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The BFF was installed into Express Rack 3 and activated. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe. However, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed their BioFabrication Facility (BFF) to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a stepping stone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Biological Experiment Laboratory in Columbus (BioLab): Biolab Temperature Controlled Units (TCUs) 1 and 2 were cleaned and photos were taken of TCU Trays and Velcro straps. Biolab Life Support Module (LSM) O2 and CO2 gas bottle valves were configured to the open position. The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the Columbus module. The facility is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Fluid Dynamics in Space (FLUIDICS): The Fluidics Data hard drive (HDD) S/N 05 was retrieved and connected. The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
Particle Vibration: Particle Vibration Array inside the Cell Array Stowage Bag was shaken/mixed to prevent the particles located inside the fluid containers from sticking to the container walls. Thermovibrationally-driven Particle self-Assembly and Ordering mechanisms in Low grAvity (Particle Vibration) project aims to investigate the self-organization mechanisms of particles in fluids. The outcomes of the project have various implications in the science of materials (development of novel manufacturing techniques) and astrophysics (understanding of the mechanisms responsible for the formation of asteroids and planets).
Systems:
ISS Power Augmentation (IPA) Flight Support Equipment (FSE) Jettison: At 11:25 AM CT today, robotics ground controllers commanded an SSRMS disposal jettison of the IPA FSE. The IPA FSE is a platform and column carrier used to transport roll-out solar arrays to the ISS in the trunk section of a Dragon vehicle.
The current IPA FSE arrived on SpX-26. IROSAs were removed during the 3A/4A IROSA Install EVAs.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: In preparation for the ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep 1A Troubleshooting EVA later this week, the crew completed an EVA tool configuration and incorporated the EVA Cuff Checklist. The Cuff Checklist is a small book with an elastic band to allow EV crew to wear it on their wrist. The book always contains a set of pages for EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) contingency responses and pages for task-specific information to be printed and taped. The EMU Arm Cams on both suits were adjusted, and the EMUs were reconfigured on the EMU Don/Doff Assemblies (EDDAs). The crew also performed a powered hardware checkout for the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) for glove heaters and EMU TV, EVA Camera D4 battery charging, relocation of the Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs), and EVA Go Pro battery charging.
Columbus Return Grid Sensor Housing (RGSH) Internal Cleaning: The crew inspected and cleaned the Columbus Return Grid Sensor Housing installed in the Port Cone. The RGSH cover, the RGSH internal area and the Air Duct Debris Screen were cleaned using the Vacuum Cleaner.
Inspection and Cleaning of the Columbus Cabin Depressurization Assembly (CDA) and the Positive Pressure Relief Assembly Valve (PPRA VLV): The Columbus CDA and PPRA VLV Inner Section Debris Screens were inspected and cleaned for foreign-object debris (FOD) or obstructions the Debris Screen of the two Columbus PPRA valves and four CDA valves installed on the Feed-Through Plates in the Columbus Port Cone area.
JPM Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: As part of Station’s standard system health monitoring, the crew used a Velocicalc tool to measure the amount of airflow through ventilation inlets and outlets in the JEM. The IMV system circulates air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that ideal atmospheric condition is maintained throughout ISS.
AC Dry Vacuum Cleaner Component Remove and Replace (R&R): The damaged AC Dry Vacuum Cleaners’ hoses were replaced with new hoses as part of an effort to return the AC Vacuum Cleaner to service following Hazard Level 1 cleanup operations.
RS Water Transfers: Per documented agreements between the US and IP Russia, the crew continues to transfer water from the USOS to the RS. Surplus water in the USOS was transferred from the Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) to an ЕДВ. An ЕДВ is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Sample Operations: The crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water. The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption. 
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: The crew performed a monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screen tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking and spatial processing.
