ISS On-Orbit Status 01/30/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Underway:  Week 10 of Increment 30 (six-person crew).
 
After wakeup this morning, FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Also at wakeup, FE-1 Shkaplerov completed the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
Dan Burbank, André Kuipers &amp; Don Pettit each completed another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, the 23<sup>rd</sup> for Dan, the 16<sup>th</sup> for André and Don.  The three crewmembers are performing their RST sleep shift session starting on 1/24 and every day through 2/2.        [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
Burbank unstowed &amp; set up the equipment for his 2<sup>nd</sup> (FD30) session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring assessment, scheduled tomorrow.         [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan includes an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
Anatoly Ivanishin performed the periodic (every Monday) verification of the automatic IUS AntiVirus program on the Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2, as well as the manual update on the non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.       [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the SSCV4 software update.  Before the installation (on 8/8) of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.  On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops.  Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
Oleg Kononenko performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Andre Kuipers set up the EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students) payload components in the Lab WORF (Window Observation Research Facility) rack and activated camera &amp; software when the ground could be seen for camera focusing.     [For running EKAM, SSC11 (Laptop Only) was relocated from NOD3 to LAB1D3, using pre-deployed power string at UOP6-J4, PS120-J1. Using the new EarthKAM software on SSC-20 (Station Support Computer 20) which replaced the version used for the KODAK DCS 760 camera. This is the 3<sup>rd</sup> use of the NIKON D2Xs camera by EKAM and the 2<sup>nd</sup> time that any images will be taken from the WORF. Students around the world are anxiously awaiting use of the higher resolution images.]
 
Don Pettit downloaded the accumulated ICV Actiwatch Spectrum and HM2 data from his 2<sup>nd</sup> (FD30) 24-hr ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session on 1/25 to the HRF PC1 (Human Research Facility Portable Computer 1), from two Actiwatch Spectrums and two HM2 HiFi CF Cards.  The laptop was then powered off.
 
Anton Shkaplerov broke out and set up the equipment for the MBI-29 IMMUNO (Neuroendocrine &amp; Immune Responses in Humans During &amp; After Long Term Stay at ISS) experiment, consisting of the Plazma-03 consumables kit, the SALIVA-I IMMUNO kit and the Plazma-03 Centrifuge.
 
Both Burbank &amp; Kuipers completed their (currently) daily electronic logging of diet for the High Salt Diet protocol of the SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) experiment.        [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included), the crewmember is ingesting one of two special diets (low salt &amp; high salt content).  SOLO Diet starts with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are logged daily on sheets stowed in the PCBA Consumable Kit in the MELFI along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) on Days 4 &amp; 6.  Blood samples are taken on Day 5, centrifuged &amp; inserted in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) and also measured with the PCBA.  24-hr urine collections are performed on Day 5, with sample insertion in MELFI.    Background:   SOLO, a NASA/ESA-German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 &amp; MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.  SOLO was also part of the experiments done on the recent Russian Mars500 long-duration flight simulation.]
 
At ~11:50am EST, the three Russian Flight Engineers joined up to support a PAO TV event, in which they greeted the attendees of the Children &amp; Youth Planetarium Center Grand Opening in Novosibirsk.     [A children’s Astrophysics Center (Planetarium) has just been built in Novosibirsk under the 50th Anniversary of Y.A. Gagarin’s Space Flight program. Participating in the grand opening in Novosibirsk on February 8 will be pilots-cosmonauts V.P. Savinykh and A.I. Lazutkin, city and regional leaders, directors of Russian planetariums, and other distinguished guests.  Because the construction of the planetarium is directly related to cosmonautics, it is expected that the space theme will be dominating in the planetarium. The planetarium Star Hall will be staging full dome space shows on a regular basis, a young cosmonaut school will also open.  Please address the participants of the grand opening with words of welcome making a 15 sec pause after the start of recording (to allow for  the cosmonauts introductions on the ground).]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).
 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 


