
Fluid Dynamics in Space (FLUIDICS): Today a crewmember attempted to run the last two science sessions (2&3) however, an anomaly occurred with the science hardware during run #2. Run #3 was aborted from the timeline until further investigation by the ESA ground teams. The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
POLAR: Today a crewmember installed the POLAR 3 and 4 units into the Japanese Module. Polar is a Cold Stowage managed facility that provides transport and storage of science samples at cryogenic temperatures (-80ºC) to and from the ISS.
NG-10 Cygnus Departure Prep: Today the crew performed final egress and hatch closure of Cygnus S.S. John Young ahead of its planned un-berth and release on Friday GMT 039 at 16:10 (10:10 CT). Tomorrow the crew will be installing the Install SlingShot deployer and Ubiquitylink payload onto the Cygnus hatch prior to the final Node 1 Nadir close out activities later in the day.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS):  Today, robotics ground controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to perform a survey of the Stratospheric Aerosol and Gas Experiment (SAGE) and Multiple User System for Earth Sensing Facility (MUSES) payloads. After the survey was completed, the SSRMS and SPDM were maneuvered to stow the SPDM on the Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload and Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) #2. After the SSRMS released the SPDM, the SSRMS was maneuvered onto the Node2 PDGF. Finally, SSRMS released the MBS PDGF #4 and was maneuvered to grapple the Cygnus Power and Video Grapple Fixture (PVGF) in preparation for Cygnus un-berth and release this Friday.
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicle (C2V2) Very High Data Rate (VHDR) Testing: Today teams began C2V2 testing that will be ongoing through Friday. The purpose of this testing is to help collect data concerning the Reed Solomon errors that occurred during NG-9 Cygnus mission. During today’s testing, both C2V2 receivers maintained signal lock where the errors occurred previously.

