
Payloads:
ADvanced Space Experiment Processor (ADSEP): The Calibration Tissue Cassette was removed from the ADSEP Facility. ADSEP is a thermally controlled single-middeck-locker equivalent that accommodates up to three cassette-based experiments that can be independently operated. Its companion hardware consists of a collection of several experiment cassettes, each doubly or triply contained, that accommodate experiments in cell technology, model organisms, multiphase fluids, solution chemistry, separation science, microencapsulation, and crystal growth.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): Yesterday, the ADSEP and BFF Calibration Cassettes were swapped in order to troubleshoot data connection to the BFF cassette. Connection was successful. Today, the Calibration Tissue Cassette was removed from the BFF, the BFF Glovebag was installed, and the facility was configured for upcoming operations by installing a test print cassette. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe. However, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed their BioFabrication Facility (BFF) to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a stepping stone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Astrobee: The JEM Module was cleared and the Astrobees were prepared for video capture and live stream operations. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. These robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, and logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): A visual inspection and activation was performed on the MSG facility prior to payload operations. The MSG is a rack-level payload facility located in the LAB Module on the ISS. MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present and is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
Particle Vibration: The SODI/IVIDIL core hardware and Particle Vibration-specific hardware were set up in the MSG Work Volume and photos were taken. Thermovibrationally-driven Particle self-Assembly and Ordering mechanisms in Low grAvity (Particle Vibration) project aims to investigate the self-organization mechanisms of particles in fluids. The outcomes of the project have various implications in the science of materials (development of novel manufacturing techniques) and astrophysics (understanding of the mechanisms responsible for the formation of asteroids and planets).
Veg-05: The plants growing in the two Veggie facilities were inspected and watered. Crew cleaned microbial growth from dead leaves and cleared debris from veggie facility cabin fans. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Zero T2: A crewmember performed Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) on ARED for the Zero T2 experiment. Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, and aerobic rowing and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill there is no means of ambulating, or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking and therefore the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of no treadmill usage during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance, which is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Systems:
ISS Reboost: Today, the ISS performed a nominal reboost using the Aft Progress 81P thrusters. This reboost was the second and final reboost targeting the 34-orbit rendezvous of both 83P and 69S. The burn duration was 14 minutes 40 seconds with a ΔV of 1.37 m/s. 
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: The crew completed multiple post-EVA activities after yesterday’s successful ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep 1A Troubleshooting EVA. Their activities included an EVA debrief, post-EVA health examinations, water operations to recharge EMUs, Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) relocation, Airlock deconfiguration and cleanup, and high definition camera power down and GoPro camera post-photo transfers to ISS server.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The fill was then terminated and the Post-Flight Analysis Bag was analyzed after the pressure relief burp. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
