
Payloads:
Cerebral Autoregulation: The crew set up the experiment hardware to support science sessions later this week. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight, and provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
Fluid Dynamics in Space (FLUIDICS): Troubleshooting of the experiment hardware was continued today, but was not successful. The hardware will be stowed, and no science runs will be performed. The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. Also, the observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
ISS Ham: The crew participated in an ISS Ham pass with Colegio Diocesano Santa María Nuestra Señora, Écija, Spain. Some of the questions asked by the students included how astronauts handle getting sick or injured in space, how the astronauts’ missions might affect society, and if leg numbness is experienced in space due to weightlessness. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Repository: Samples were gathered in support of the Repository investigation. The NASA Biological Specimen Repository (Repository) is a storage bank that is used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. Samples from the ISS are collected, processed, and archived during the preflight, in-flight and postflight phases of ISS missions. This investigation archives biosamples for use as a resource for future space flight related research.
Systems:
Emergency Simulation On-Board Training (OBT): Today, the crew participated in a training exercise for ISS fire and rapid depressurization emergency scenarios. The emergency training involved crew and ground teams working together to practice communication and coordination while the crew physically translated through ISS to the appropriate response locations to visualize the use of equipment and interfaces. A post-simulation crew conference took place to discuss and evaluate the crew/ground control responses during the training event.
Toilet Operations: Activities continued today in support of Toilet testing. A manual dose check of the Toilet System was performed to verify nominal Dose Pump performance, and mitts were inspected for signs of contamination due to separator liquid carry-over. The crew completed the Toilet System Daily Questionnaire and reviewed Crew Use Big Picture Words. 
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 1 (N1) Smoke Detector (SD) Cleaning: The crew inspected and successfully cleaned the N1 charcoal filters and area smoke detectors using a dry vacuum cleaner and nitrogen cartridges. Smoke detectors sample the atmosphere for particles that might correspond to smoke from a fire. The smoke detectors sample the atmosphere within racks and in the open cabin and determine the amount of smoke using a light sensing sampling chamber or probe and rely on forced airflow to propagate any smoke particles that may be present in the atmosphere.
Hatch Seal Inspection: The crew inspected the hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surfaces, crank handle mechanisms, and hatch seal interlocking joints for damage or foreign object debris (FOD) on the Forward, Aft, Starboard, and Port Node 1 hatches. The crew reported no issues.
RS Water Transfers: Per documented agreements between NASA and IP Russia, the crew continues to transfer water from the USOS to the RS. Surplus water in the USOS was transferred from the Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) to an ЕДВ. An ЕДВ is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: The crew performed a monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screen tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking, and spatial processing.
