ISS On-Orbit Status 02/06/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew rest day.   Sleep cycle shift in effect, to accommodate next week’s arrival of STS-130/20A:
 <ul style="margin-top: 0pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 36pt; "> <li>Wake:  7:10pm (last night) – 9:10am EST (this morning); Sleep: 9:10am – 5:40pm (tonight),</li></ul> 
 KSC: Countdown is underway for the launch of STS-130/Endeavour (20A) tomorrow morning at 4:36am EST.  (There is also some excitement here about Super Bowl 44 at Miami…)
 
 At wake-up last evening, FE-4 Kotov began the workday with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator.    [The filters were installed by Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 Right after Postsleep, CDR Williams, FE-5 Noguchi &amp; FE-6 Creamer completed another Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  A total of 121 RST runs are assigned to Jeff for the duration of his orbital stay.]
 
 The five crewmembers performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 Oleg also completed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM &amp; FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.
 
 Maxim performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.
 
 Working in the Lab on the MSRR (Materials Science Research Rack), FE-6 Creamer exchanged the used SCA (Sample Cartridge Assembly) #4 in the MSL (Microgravity Science Laboratory), replacing it with the next test sample, MICAST #2.
 
 Afterwards, TJ shut down the EK (EarthKAM) system in Node-2 and stowed the equipment, then relocated the Ku-band power supply used for EK from Node-2 to the US Lab for 20A.     [Over 8400 students from 119 education groups participated in this week’s image gathering session.   There were 102 schools from the US, France, Japan, United Kingdom, Canada, Romania, Italy, Germany, South Korea, Switzerland and Poland participating.  The image total is over 1200 and still increasing.  In addition, the image targeting/selection process was demonstrated “live” to teachers attending the Space Exploration Educators Conference at Space Center Houston.]
 
 Jeff Williams &amp; TJ Creamer continued troubleshooting work on the OGS WDS (Oxygen Generator System Water Delivery System), to clear the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) of its suspected air bubbles.     [The crew first reconfigured the WDS to supply water to the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser &amp; WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment), then they were to perform a number of flushes on the PWD in an attempt to clear the PWD filter (based on the past performance of the PWD, this was not expected to be successful but was tried before the more invasive options later).  Afterwards, Jeff attempted to flush the bubbles out of a vent port on the microbial filter with the Filter ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit) remaining installed in PWD, followed by a second attempt where the PWD filter was spun around to gather the air bubbles together, and expel them from the vent port.]
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their adjusted physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 
