
Payloads:
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The PK-4 system was configured to transfer experiment data for subsequent downlink. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Standard Measures: Samples were collected in support of the Standard Measures investigation. Spaceflight Standard Measures (Standard Measures) collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crew members until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Veg-05: The plants growing in the two Veggie facilities were inspected, watered as needed, and photographed. The experiment is growing Red Robin dwarf tomatoes for a little over three months and will perform multiple harvests of the fruits produced. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
83 Progress (83P) Launch: This morning at 12:15 AM CT, 83P launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome carrying food, fuel, and supplies to the ISS. An automated docking to the ISS Service Module aft docking port will occur on Saturday, February 11th at approximately 2:49 AM CT after completing a 34-orbit rendezvous. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Hydraulic Components Remove and Replace (R&R): As part of regular maintenance, the crew removed the Urine Valve Block, urine lines, and urine pressure sensors, and then performed the component replacements and system checkout. This maintenance activity occurs every three years in order to change out the WHC water components due to hardware life expirations, or as needed to improve system performance.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub: The crew performed ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) of EMUs 3004 and 3009 as well as Airlock (A/L) cooling water loops. Conductivity readings and a water sample were taken from the cooling loop following the 70-minute scrub. Finally, crew terminated, deconfigured, and checked out the EMUs. EMU loop scrubs are required preventative maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU cooling loop. The EMU is and independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit.
Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) Checkout: A checkout of the SAFER and Test Module seals was performed to satisfy two year on-orbit maintenance requirements, which included measurement of the SAFER regulator pressure under flow and no-flow conditions, performance of a leak check, and measurement of the relief valve crack and reseating of the pressure. Essentially a “life jacket” for spacewalks, SAFER is a self-contained maneuvering unit that is worn like a backpack. The system relies on small jet thrusters to let an astronaut move around in space.
EVA Metal Oxide (METOX) Simulator Filter R&R: The METOX simulator filters were removed in all four METOX simulator units. The METOX simulators allow the EMUs to operate without a METOX canister for fan-pump separator dry-out, reducing METOX regeneration and tracking. It is used for intravehicular activity only.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Treadmill 2 (T2) Acoustic Blanket: As part of noise reduction efforts in Node 3, the crew removed, inspected, reconfigured, and reinstalled the four acoustic blankets near the T2 exercise volume.
RS Water Transfers: Per documented agreements between NASA and IP Russia, the crew continues to transfer water from the USOS to the RS. Surplus water in the USOS was transferred from the Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) to an ЕДВ. An ЕДВ is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities.
