ISS On-Orbit Status 02/04/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.       
 
This morning at about 4:45am EST, the ISS (specifically its FGB “Zarya” module) completed 70,000 orbits of the Earth, having covered a distance of 2.956 billion kilometers (1.847 billion st.miles) in 4459 days.   [The 19,300-kg/42,600-lbs Zarya (“Dawn”) was launched on a Russian Khrunichev Proton from Baikonur on 11/20/1998, as the first element of the multi-national space station.]
&gt;&gt;&gt;Yesterday 45 years ago (Feb. 3, 1966), the Soviet automatic station Luna-9 (Project Е6) performed a successful soft landing on the Moon's surface, for the first time in history, transmitting TV imagery of the landing site to Earth.&lt;&lt;&lt;
FE-2 Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Before sleeptime, Oleg will inspect the filters again, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
Paolo Nespoli continued his 3<sup>rd</sup> (FD60) suite of sessions with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.    In addition, Paolo captured a photo of the Pro K pH logsheet and transferred it to the SSC (Station Support Computer) with his monitored Pro K diet log Excel file in preparation for downlink.      [For Pro K, there will be five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day.  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
Sometime after ~2:30am EST, Nespoli also concluded his 3<sup>rd</sup> (FD60) NUTRITION w/Repository/Pro K 24-hr urine collection period, with samples deposited in MELFI.  In addition, Paolo underwent the associated generic blood draw, with FE-6 Coleman assisting with the phlebotomy as operator and shooting documentary photographs.  FE-5 then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI.    [The operational products for blood &amp; urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
FE-1 Kaleri concluded his 3<sup>rd</sup> session of the standard 24-hour ECG (Electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2 protocol, started yesterday.     [After the ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system, Alex doffed the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads over the past 24 hours, recording data on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results were then downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data were downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]
 
FE-4 Kondratyev serviced the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet, downloading structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.     [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.]
 
Afterwards, Dmitri Kondratyev configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his 2<sup>nd</sup>, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]
 
Using the Russian KPT-12 payload with its BAR science instruments suite, Kaleri &amp; Skripochka conducted a second session of about 2.5 hrs, today using the Piren-B instrument to check out micro conditions on the SM (Service Module) pressurized shell in the areas of possible surface condensation.  Data were downlinked via OCA, and the activities were supported by ground specialist tagup as required.  Before sleeptime tonight, Sasha will terminate the recharge of the Piren-B battery started after run.     [Objective of the Russian KPT-12/BAR science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Piren-B is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Besides KPT-2 Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
Later, Oleg used the standard ECOSFERA equipment, set up on 1/31, to conclude the ongoing MedOps SZM-MO-21 microbial air sampling run, with the POTOK Air Purification System temporarily powered down, taking samples from cabin surfaces along with samples from crewmembers for sanitation and disease studies.  The Petri dishes with the samples were then stowed in the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic container and subsequently packed for return to Earth.     [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger and power supply unit, provides samples to help determine microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.]
 
Working in the HTV2 (H-II Transfer Vehicle 2), CDR Kelly, FE-5 Nespoli &amp; FE-6 Coleman had several hours set aside for cargo transfer and unpacking ops.
 
After setting up the VCA2 (Video Camera Assembly 2) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) facing the HRF1 (Human Research Facility 1) for real-time monitoring, Scott Kelly performed Part 1 of troubleshooting the failed USND (Ultrasound) hardware.     [Part 1 activities included taking photos of all equipment connectors throughout operations, verifying switches, decabling USND keyboard &amp; flat screen display from USND front panel, removing USND from HRF Rack 1 and performing resistance (Ohm) testing, checking results with the ground, and relocating USND, 28 Volt WS2 (Workstation 2) PC and CSD (Cooling Stowage Drawer) for further troubleshooting.] 
 
Also in COL, FE-5 Nespoli later powered up the 28 Volt EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop from LUDP (Left Utility Distribution Panel) and completed installation of the ESA experiment NEUROSPAT (Study of Spatial Cognition, Novelty Processing and Sensorimotor Integration).
 
Afterwards, Paolo undertook his 2<sup>nd</sup> orbital NEUROSPAT session, assisted by Cady Coleman as CMO (Crew Medical Operator) in putting on the EEG (Electroencephalogram) electrode cap and optimizing channel impedance of the electrodes before starting measurements, with Cady taking documentary photography.  Later, Nespoli stowed the equipment and saved the science data on the hard disks of the EPM MEEMM (Multi-Electrode Electroencephalogram Measurement Module) and the MPL (Multipurpose Laptop).  After the data transfer, Paolo disassembled and stowed the equipment.    [NeuroSpat investigates the ways in which crew members’ three-dimensional visual &amp; space perception is affected by long-duration stays in weightlessness.  The Hungarian/Belgian experiment involves two principal experimental tasks: Visual Orientation and Visuomotor Tracking, plus additional, standardized EEG tasks performed as a means of assessing general effects of the space station environment on EEG signals.  MEEMM is a subsection of the EPM facility, used for different types of non-invasive brain function investigations.  It can also easily be reconfigured to support research in the field of muscle physiology.]
 
Cady Coleman continued her work on the new Kobairo (“stork”) rack in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).    [FE-6 finished the installation of a rubber shim on the VEE (Vacuum Evacuation Equipment) started yesterday and took documentary photography, then rotated the rack (at loc. D3) down, installed the GHF MMA TAA (Gradient Heating Furnace / Microgravity Measurement Apparatus / Triaxial Acceleration Assembly) on Kobairo, returned the rack to its upright position and downloaded the imagery.]
 
Later, Cady completed the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh her CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on Nosebleed.     [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]
 
Coleman also performed her 2<sup>nd</sup> onboard session with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.     [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]
 
FE-4 Kondratyev completed the periodic transfer of condensate water to an RS (Russian Segment) EDV container for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis into oxygen &amp; hydrogen, filling the designated KOV (condensate water) EDV container from US CWCs (Contingency Water Containers, #1030).  When filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.     [The ~40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the Elektron’s BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  If bubbles are detected in the EDV, they are separated (by centrifugation) into another EDV.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator.]
 
Using the MMTs-01 “Elektronika” Multimeter, Kondratyev conducted electric continuity (impedance, i.e., resistance) tests between the power cabling contacts of the IPI-SM monoblock of the Russian GFI-12 IMPULSE space experiment mounted on the outside of the SM (large diameter), supported by ground specialist tagup via S-band.     [The GFI-12 IMPULSE experiment, along with the GFI-11/OBSTANOVKA payload, is designed to use ionosphere probes and a pulsed plasma source to make scientific measurements of ionosphere parameters and plasma-wave characteristics.]
 
Dmitri also worked in the Soyuz TMA-20/25S spacecraft, docked at MRM1, removing the GA/gas analyzer (KM0305M1, #089) in the SA/Descent Module and replacing it with a spare (#091).     [Troubleshooting attempts have failed to determine (and correct) why the GA has continually blown power line fuses.] 
 
In the SM, Alex Kaleri set up the new Russian GFI-17 “Molniya” FOTON-GAMMA experiment, delivered on Progress 40P, connecting its adapter cable.     [GFI-17 “Molniya GAMMA” investigates atmospheric gamma-ray bursts and optical radiation in conditions of thunderstorm activity.]
 
In a 2.5-hr outfitting operation in the SM, Oleg &amp; Alex routed &amp; installed cabling for the new Russian Microwave Radiometry experiment DZZ-9, including preparing connections for the BITS2-12 TMI onboard telemetry measurement system.  After tagup with ground specialists, the worksite was cleaned up and closed out.     [DZZ-9 investigates underlying surface, ocean and atmosphere characteristics by microwave radiometry.]
 
Alex continued work on the BSPN Payload Server in SM, today dumping (downlinking) log files for ground specialists to verify recent software upgrades.
 
Activities completed by CDR Kelly included –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More US trash gathering for disposal on cargo ship-turned-trash can Progress 39P,</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A CubeLab Module data collection session and transfer of collected data to laptop [CubeLab is a low-cost 1-kg platform for educational projects. It is a multipurpose research facility that interfaces small standard modules into the ERs (EXPRESS Racks).  The modules can be used within the pressurized space station environment in orbit, with a nominal length, width, and height of 100 mm and a mass of no more than 1 g.  Up to 16 CubeLab modules can be inserted into a CubeLab insert inside an ER],</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">The periodic reboot of all active PCS (Portable Computer System), COL PWS (Columbus Orbital Laboratory Portable Work Station) and Kibo STL (System Laptop Terminal) laptops (PWS &amp; SLT done once/month), then recording the battery SOC (state of charge) of the machines, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1;text-autospace:none">The regular 30-day inspection of the AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack  [AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient.  It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.]</li></ul> 
Scott also was scheduled for another VHF-1 emergency communications proficiency check over NASA’s VHF (Very High Frequency) stations, today only with Houston/Capcom since WSC (White Sands Complex) is currently troubleshooting the cause of recent noise interference.     [Purpose of the periodic test is to verify signal reception and link integrity, improve crew proficiency, and ensure minimum required link margin during emergency (no TDRS) and special events (such as a Soyuz relocation).]
 
FE-4 handled the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Dmitri also conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Scott filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).      [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
At ~3:15am EST, the entire crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with GOGU, i.e., the Russian Flight Control Team (Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
At ~7:50am, Oleg &amp; Dima linked up with TsUP/Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
At ~2:10pm, the six crewmembers had their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director or ISS at JSC/MCC-Houston.
 
At ~3:25pm, Cady is scheduled for her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1,FE-4).
 
WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC water audit.      [The new card (26-0045G lists 114 CWCs (2,330.5 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (19 CWCs with 761.3 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 433.3 L in 11 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 170.8 L in 4 bags for transfer into EDV-RP containers via US/RSA-B hose, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (83 CWCs with 1,537.0 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (6.3 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 9 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (25.9 L in 2 CWCs from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
SPDM Operations:   At 3:10pm–5:10pm EST, ground controllers will roll the MT (Mobile Transporter) with the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) and its “hand”, the SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator), from WS-7 (Worksite 7) back to WS-5.  SPDM Arm 2 will then release the NASA CTC (Cargo Transport Container) and maneuver to a stow configuration.  SPDM Arm 1, still applying CTC heater power via the SPDM umbilical, will also maneuver to Stow.  The SSRMS will then leave the SPDM at the Lab PDGF (Power &amp; Data Grapple Fixture), walkoff to Node-2 and maneuver to EP (Exposed Pallet) Overnight Park Position, ready for the upcoming EP handoff from the Japanese RMS (Robotic Manipulator System) and re-insertion into HTV-2.  Russian thrusters are disabled from 2:25pm-3:55am due to load constraints.
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded today were Dakar, Senegal (the capital city of Senegal has a population estimated at just over 1 million and dominates the promontory known as Cape Verde, Africa’s westernmost point.  ISS had a late morning pass in clear weather for this target with its approach from the NW near the Cape Verde Islands.  As ISS approached the coast, the crew was to look left of track and try for a context view of the city), San Salvador, El Salvador (this capital city near 600,000 lies in a seismically active region and is surrounded by volcanoes.  ISS had a clear, mid-morning pass for this target with its approach from the NW over the interior of Central America.  As the crew neared the Pacific coast, they were to look for this city with a volcano to the west and a lake to the east), and Santiago, Chile (fair weather was expected for this mid-afternoon pass just SW of the Chilean capital.  As the crew approached the coast from the NW, they were to begin looking left of track for an interior valley with this city of nearly 6 million).
 

