All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday – rest day for CDR Fincke, FE-1 Lonchakov &amp; FE-2 Magnus.  Ahead: Week 16 of Increment 18.   &gt;&gt; Yesterday one year ago STS-122/Atlantis/1E launched the Columbus Module.  Good show, ESA, and Glückwunsch, DLR!&lt;&lt;
 
 FE-2 Magnus started the day with the daily download of the accumulated data of the SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight) experiment from her Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of another week-long session with SLEEP, her third.     [To monitor the crewmember's sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment's laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days, as part of the crew's discretionary “job jar” task list.] 
 
 After setting up the equipment yesterday, Fincke completed the second day of his first six-day SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) session, which entails a series of diet intake loggings, body mass measurements and blood &amp; urine samplings in two session blocks.      [During the Session 1 block, the crewmember follows a special low-salt diet, during Session 2 a high-salt diet.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals will be logged on sheets stowed in the PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer) Consumable Kit in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  SOLO, an ESA/German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device); blood samples are taken with the PCBA.   Background: The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 &amp; MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]
 
 In the SM (Service Module), Lonchakov performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]
 
 With the RS Vozdukh CO2 scrubber back in service following the replacement of its VN vacuum pump, Fincke assisted the ground in deactivating the US CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly) after another run by disconnecting the ITCS LTL (Internal Thermal Control System/Low Temperature Loop) jumper from the LAB1D6 rack after the shutdown.
 
 The FE-2 took measurements for the regular atmospheric status check for ppCO2 (Carbon Dioxide partial pressure) in the Lab and in the SM at panel 449 plus battery ticks, using the hand-held CDMK (CO2 Monitoring Kit, #1002).  The unit was then deactivated and returned to its stowage location (LAB1S2).     [Purpose of the 5-min activity is to trend with MCA (Major Constituents Analyzer), i.e., to correlate the hand-held readings with MCA measurements.  The results are usually logged in the OSTPV (Onboard Short Term Plan Viewer) and are immediately available to the ground.]
 
 At ~5:01am EST, the CDR powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 5:06am conducted a ham radio session with students at the College of Agriculture, Central Agricultural University, Imphhal, Assam, India.
 
 At ~8:20am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 At ~2:40pm EST, Mike Fincke had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 The station residents completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 Working off the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, Yuri performed a session of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program, using the NIKON D2X digital camera to take 800mm-lens telephotos.
 
 Also off the work suggestions list, the FE-1 conducted another session for Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.
 
 A third voluntary task for the FE-1 was the regular status check of the BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment which researches growth and development of plants (barley) under spaceflight conditions in the Lada-13 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems {Russian:  IMBP}).
 
 ICE CRYSTAL Update:   Due to the STS-119/15A launch slip to no earlier then 2/22, JAXA's SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center)/Tsukuba, Japan, restarted the ICE Crystal Experiment in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) today, running from 2:30pm EST to 5:00am tomorrow morning.   [The experiment requires undisturbed microgravity.]
 
 No CEO photo targets uplinked for today. 
 
 CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website:
 <a href="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov">http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov</a> &lt;<a href="http://">http://</a>eol.jsc.nasa.gov/&gt;  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).
 
 

