
52 Progress (52P) Undocking: Progress M-20M (52P) vehicle undocked from the Russian Segment Docking Compartment 1 (DC1) nadir port today at 10:21 am CST.  Progress will remain on orbit for the non-ISS-related “Изгиь” experiment February 6-10, reentry is currently planned for 9:43 am CST Tuesday, February 11th.
Sprint Ultrasound Scans: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins performed as the operator in conducting the 4th of 7 planned Sprint ultrasound scans of FE-6 Wakata’s thigh and calf, with remote guidance from the ground team.  Prior to the scans Wakata set up the equipment and, with Hopkin’s assistance, placed reference marks on the calf and thigh of his right leg, and don thigh and calf guides.  The Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
NanoRacks Platform-2 Install and Activation:  FE-5 Mastracchio installed and activated the Multi-Gas Monitor installed on Platform-2 after installation of Platform-2. The Multi-Gas Monitor uses laser sensors to continuously measure oxygen, carbon dioxide, ammonia, and humidity in spacecraft cabin air in real time. The multiple low power, tunable lasers train an infrared laser beam on an air sample, and sensors tuned to specific wavelengths of light detect which gases are present. The instrument fits in a device the size of a shoebox and detects the presence of various gases in less than one second.
Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Hardware Replacement:  FE-3 Hopkins removed the MDCA Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) from the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Combustion Chamber and restrained it on the Maintenance Work Area (MWA).  He replaced both MDCA Fuel Reservoirs, both MDCA Igniter Tips and the MDCA Fiber Arm, and then re-installed the MDCA CIA in the CIR Combustion Chamber.
Circadian Rhythms:  FE-6 Wakata attached Thermolab double sensors to himself, mounted the Thermolab unit in his belt, and connected and powered on the unit. The equipment will be worn for the next 36 hours.  This study examines the circadian variation of astronaut’s cardiac autonomic function during space flight. The research is expected to provide insights into changes in those functions before, during and after long-duration space flight and may be used to improve the health care technology used for future ISS crewmembers.

