
Payloads
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-L (CBEF-L): The crew connected the CBEF-L Alt power and data umbilicals to the Saibo Rack Z-panel. The JAXA Experiment Laptop-2 was also setup for upcoming configuration ops.  CBEF-L is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) currently aboard the International Space Station (ISS). CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
The ISS Experience: The crew completed the setup of the ISS Experience laptop and Z-Cam in order for ground teams to offload video for downlink. The International Space Station Experience (The ISS Experience) is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station. Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk
CIR-Combustion Integrated Rack – Fluids and Combustion Facility: The crew removed the ACME Heat Flux Burner-2, replaced the ACME Igniter Tip, installed the ACME Coflow Burner, and aligned the igniter tip with the burner. This puts the ACME in a good configuration to start Coflow Laminar Diffusion Flame (CLD Flame) part 3 runs. The Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Three-dimensional Microbial Mapping of ISS Environment (3DMM): The crew collected swab samples from various areas in the Columbus module for microbial metagenomic and metabolomic analysis. This is the first session in a 2 week period of ISS module sample collections. Surfaces in the space station contain microbes and associated biomolecules excreted by these microorganisms. 3DMM uses DNA sequencing and other analyses to construct a 3D map of bacteria and bacterial products throughout the station. The team also plans to characterize how these microbes respond at a molecular level to specific stress conditions, including altered gravity and atmospheric composition.
Systems
Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMU) 3006/3009 Loop Scrub, and Iodination: The crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity on units 3006 and 3009. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: Crew performed an analysis of the water processing assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
External TV Camera Group (ETVCG) disassembly: The crew removed the TV Camera Interface Converter (TVCIC) and ETVCG Light from the remainder of the CP3 External Television Camera Group Assembly (ETVCG). The ETVCG is comprised of three major components: the Pan Tilt Unit (PTU), Color TV Camera (CTVC), and TV Camera Interface Converter (TVCIC).
Space-X Crew Dragon On-Board Training (OBT) Review: The crew completed a review of the Space-X Crew Dragon emergency departure, and free flight contingencies and emergencies procedures. This is done as a refresher for the crew in the event Crew Dragon requires an emergency departure.

