
Galley Rack Outfitting: The crew continued with Galley Rack Outfitting today. They mated power, data, and fluid umbilicals to the Galley Rack in preparation for activation. They also relocated the Food Warmer from the Node 1 Starboard location to the Node 1 Galley Rack. Following this relocation the Food Warmer will be powered from the Galley Rack instead of the Ku-Band Power Supply.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) Adapter Transfer to the Exposed Facility (EF):  Overnight ground specialist at SSIPC maneuvered Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) from Small Fine Arm (SFA) Park Position to JEM airlock to grasp EFU Adapter with SFA. Then they unberthed the EFU Adapter from JEM AL slide table, transferred and install it to EFU 5. Finally, the JEMRMS was maneuvered to SFA Park.
NeuroMapping: The crew set up the Neuromapping hardware and executed testing in both a “strapped in” and “free floating” body configuration. During the test, the crewmember executed three Behavioral Assessments: mental rotation, sensorimotor adaptation, and motor-cognitive dual tasking. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes any changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
Lighting Effects: The crew set up and configured the Light Meter hardware and obtained Light Meter measurements at various locations around the ISS.  Following measurement collections, the data was downlinked. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKam): The crew performed a lens change out for the Sally Ride EarthKam equipment in the Service Module (SM) window and activated the equipment. Sally Ride EarthKam is a NASA education program that enables thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the International Space Station. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The team at Sally Ride EarthKAM then posts these photographs on the Internet for the public and participating classrooms around the world to view.
SpX-10 Preparation:  Today the crew performed their Dragon Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) training session 1.  This training session included material for the crew to perform some Self Study before performing the ROBoT 1 session, which includes a 30m approach, two Capture Point (CP)-hold runs, and 2m runs. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Lithium Ion (Li-Ion) Battery Charger Calibration Verification: Today, the crew ran a series of checks to determine if the Li-Ion Battery Charger is operating within calibration standards. This verification is required once every five years. The EMU Li-Ion Battery Charger Calibration Verification Device (LCVD) and multimeter were connected between the Li-Ion Battery Charger and EMU Li-Ion Battery in order to check the calibration of the battery charger. There were no issues, and the calibration was verified.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed maintenance on the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) and Test Module seals. During the activity they measured the SAFER regulator pressure under flow and no-flow conditions, performed a leak check and measured the relief valve opening and reseated pressure of the SAFER.

