
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Pressurization and Leak Check:  Kelly opened the JEM Airlock inner hatch and extended the Slide Table into the JEM.  Peake then removed Cyclops from the Slide Table and stowed it for future use.
 
Russian Pilot-T Experiment:  Kelly performed a session of the Russian experiment Pilot-T today. The goal of Pilot-T is to improve methods and develop equipment to assess and predict crewmember performance reliability during the execution of complex operator tasks (such as piloting a space vehicle or controlling transport and robotic equipment on the surface of a spacecraft) during various stages of long-term spaceflight.
 
Education Payload Operation (EPO):  Peake recorded a video message encouraging and inspiring pupils and schools that are taking part in the Education Resource Office – United Kingdom (ESERO-UK) Primary School Project.  The recording is part of the European Space Agency’s (ESA) Principia mission to support education activities for 500 primary schools around the UK.
 
Reaction Self Test:  Kelly and Kornienko completed sessions today for the Reaction Self Test investigation after they woke in the morning and prior to their sleep period.  Reaction Self Test helps crewmembers objectively identify when their performance capability is degraded by various fatigue-related conditions that can occur as a result of ISS operations and time in space (e.g., acute and chronic sleep restriction, slam shifts, extravehicular activity (EVA), and residual sedation from sleep medications).
 
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Cargo Operations:  The crew transferred trash into the Cygnus vehicle today.   An estimated 6 hours remain to complete the trash loading.  Cygnus is scheduled to unberth from ISS on February 19th.
 
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) Demonstration:  Today is the second day of 3 days of activities designed to validate robotic transfer of battery style Orbital Replacement Units (ORUs) prior to the delivery of new ISS batteries on HTV-6.  A successful demonstration will allow planners to reduce the number of EVAs to install the batteries.  Yesterday’s activities to move the MBSU Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) to Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP) side 2 were successful.  However ground controllers were unable to use the ORU Tool Changeout Mechanism (OTCM) to grasp the Right-hand Off-Set Tool (ROST) so the MBSU secondary bolt operations were completed using the OTCM.  Today the ground will remove the MBSU from the FRAM structure and temporarily stow the MBSU on EOTP side 3 before returning the MBSU back to the FRAM.  Tomorrow the demonstration will conclude when the MBSU FRAM is moved back to its home on Express Logistics Carrier 2.
 

