
Payloads:
Astrobee: The crew set up cameras to capture the Astrobee crew-minimal science operations. Astrobee is made up of free-flying, cube-shaped robots. These robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores and to give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the ISS. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, and logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
Earthshine from ISS: The crew setup the Earthshine experiment and captured imagery of the Moon.  The Earthshine from ISS investigation involves the thorough analysis of photos taken of the Moon from the ISS at specific points in the lunar cycle to study changes in the Earth’s reflectance of light, or albedo. Activities consist of in-flight photography sessions by the crew using a handheld digital camera and lens available onboard the ISS. 
European Drawer Rack-2 (EDR-2): The EDR-2 was reconfigured with the removal of the right side launch structure hardware in preparation for the Metal 3D Printer installation. EDR-2 is an experiment support facility located in the Columbus module. EDR-2 supports different types of experiments mounted in or close to the rack. The rack provides general services to the experiments including power, data communication, water cooling, vacuum and venting/waste gas, nitrogen supply, and structural interfaces.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew gained access to the ELF facility, exchanged the sample holder, and performed a gas bottle exchange. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt, and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. ELF is located in the Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the JEM.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: The crew removed the oven profiling probe and installed the first experiment sample. The experiment team reported both checkout and characterization were nominally performed overnight. Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consist of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3 and 20% NaF. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground. 
Immunity Assay: Samples were collected and processed in support of the ongoing session. Today is day three of the four-day experiment session. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
Robotic Surgery Tech Demo: In preparation for science activities, the crew installed the experiment hardware in its EXPRESS Rack (ER) location. The Robotic Surgery Tech Demo tests techniques for performing robotic surgery in microgravity using a miniature surgical robot that can be remotely controlled or teleoperated from Earth. Comparing the in-flight data to data from the same tests performed on Earth could inform the design of robotic surgical systems that will provide medical care during future long-duration missions.
Systems:
Russian EDV Inspection: The crew performed an inspection of a standalone EDV for any signs of a leak, air intrusion, or off-nominal EDV content quality. Imagery of the Russian EDV was downlinked for ground teams to analyze.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the WRS using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
