
Russian Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #44: Alexander Misurkin (as EV1) and Anton Shkaplerov (as EV2) performed RS EVA #44 with a Phased Elapsed Time (PET) of 8 hrs 13 min. During the EVA, the cosmonauts removed and replaced the [OHA] antenna high frequency receiver on Service Module (SM) aft. 
Microbial Tracking-2:  A 53S crewmember completed body and saliva sample collections in support of the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation. The Microbial Tracking series-2 continues the monitoring of the types of microbes that are present on the International Space Station (ISS). It seeks to catalog and characterize potential disease-causing microorganisms aboard the ISS. Crew samples from pre-flight, in-flight, and post-flight times in addition to environmental samples from ISS surface and air locations will be collected to analyze any associations between the microbial content of the samples, as well as potential health effects. 
NanoRacks DreamUp Xtronaut Crystal Growth (DreamXCG): To track the progression of the DreamXCG formation that was initiated yesterday, today the crew took photo and video images of each pouch to show any visible sugar crystal growth. This investigation teaches students about the effects of microgravity on crystal formations using near-identical flight kits flown and operated aboard the International Space Station (ISS). With access to crewmember videos and data on the same experiment, students are able compare crystal formations in space to those in their classrooms. The investigation aims to promote science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields to the next generation of students.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Configuration Operations: The crew continued to conduct CBEF configuration activities that began earlier this week by installing the mouse habitat unit interface to prepare the facility for the Mouse Stress Defense investigation arriving on SpaceX-14. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) sub-rack facility located in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack. The CBEF is used in various life science experiments, such as cultivating cells and plants in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) and consists of an incubator and control equipment for control and communications.
European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Preparation for Plant Gravity Perception Operations: The experiment containers (ECs) on the EMCS rotors were replaced with new ECs to begin the 2nd of three Plant Gravity Perception experiment runs. The Plant Gravity Perception investigation germinates normal and mutated forms of thale cress, a model research plant, to study the plants’ gravity and light perception. Results provide new information about plants’ ability to detect gravity and how they adapt to an environment without it, which benefits efforts to grow plants for food on future missions. The EMCS is an experiment facility that is dedicated to studying plant biology in a reduced gravity environment. It supports the cultivation, stimulation, and crew-assisted operation of biological experiments under controlled conditions. The facility has performed multi-generation (seed-to-seed) experiments and studies the effects of gravity and light on early development and growth, signal perception and transduction in plant tropisms. 
Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-6 (ACE-T-6) Operations: After dispensing oil on the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Confocal test target last week to initiate the ACE-T6 science runs, this week the crew cleaned the oil inside of the LMM Auxiliary Fluids Container. The ACE-T-6 investigation studies the microscopic behavior of colloids in gels and creams, to provide new insight into fundamental interactions that can improve product shelf life. Colloids are suspensions of microscopic particles in a liquid, and they are found in products ranging from milk to fabric softener. Consumer products often use colloidal gels to distribute specialized ingredients, for instance droplets that soften fabrics, but the gels must serve two opposite purposes: they have to disperse the active ingredient so it can work, yet maintain an even distribution so the product does not spoil 
Space Headaches:  The crew completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Pressurized Module (JPM) Rack Relocations:  Today the crew swapped the Expedite the Processing of Experiments to the Space Station (ExPRESS) Rack-4 from JPM1F5 location and Zero-G Soft Rack (ZSR) from JPM1F6 location in preparation for Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) installation into the ZSR.  LSG will be delivered on H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) 7.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance:  Today the crew performed ARED Quarterly maintenance. They inspected X-Rotation dashpots, cycled the main arm through the full range of motion, and greased the ARED Vibration Isolation System (VIS) rails and rollers and upper stop.  This is nominal periodic maintenance performed to keep the system operating nominally. 
Television Camera Interface Converter (TVCIC): The crew attempted to remove and replace the attachment bolts on the TVCIC #002 in preparation for installation on a future EVA.  An inspection performed on the TVCIC in October 2017 identified noticeable wear on the bolt threads’ dry film lube indicating they are near their end of life.  During the activity today, the new bolts could not be located and the original bolts were re-installed.  Forward plan is under evaluation 
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Repress: Ground controllers initiated a nitrogen repress from the NORS system. The crew terminated the repress by closing the nitrogen isolation valve and then removed and prepared the N2 recharge tank for return to the ground. A leak check of the N2 System confirmed the repress was successful.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew performed a checkout on the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER). During the activity, they measured the SAFER regulator pressure under flow and no-flow conditions, performed a leak check, and measured the relief valve opening and reseating pressure of the SAFER.

