ISS On-Orbit Status 02/04/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew off duty.
 
After wakeup this morning, FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), CDR Burbank supported the running BCAT-6 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-6) by replacing the BCAT-6 battery early in the morning with a fresh one and repeating the replacement about 8 hrs later.       [The NIKON D2Xs with EarthKAM software running on an SSC laptop takes automated flash photography controlled by the software, photographing Sample 1 once every two hours for seven days.  Burbank performs three camera battery changes and a camera check each day. The camera battery changes are scheduled to be performed approximately every 8 hours per Mike’s recommendation during past BCAT-6 activities.]
 
CDR Burbank, FE-1 Shkaplerov, FE-2 Ivanishin, FE-4 Kononenko, FE-5 Kuipers &amp; FE-6 Pettit joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).         ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Anton, Anatoly &amp; Oleg completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) and the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille in the SM.  Before the cleaning, all fan screens were photographed for ground inspection.
 
In the Lab, André Kuipers serviced the EarthKAM (EKAM/Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students) payload in the Lab WORF (Window Observation Research Facility) rack by changing its battery early in the morning.  Later in the day, André shut down EKAM operations, disconnected the equipment in the WORF rack and stowed it, then relocated its laptop, SSC-11, to its original location in Node-3.       [EK uses a NIKON D2Xs electronic still camera with 50mm and 180mm lenses, powered by a battery, taking pictures by remote operation from the ground, without crew interaction.  It is available for students who submit image requests and conduct geographic research.  The requests are uplinked in a camera control file to the A31p SSC-11 (Station Support Computer) laptop which then activates the camera at specified times and receives the digital images from the camera’s storage card on its hard drive, for subsequent downlink via OpsLAN.  The camera battery is changed when no pictures are being taken.  EKAM uses new software on SSC-11 which replaces the version used for the DCS 760 camera. This was the 4<sup>th </sup>use of the D2Xs camera by EKAM.]
 
Later, Kuipers conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.
 
Don Pettit set up the TM750 camcorder and started, later terminated, the downlink process via the MPC (Multi-Protocol. Converter) of the images gathered from the JAXA Sakura (Cherry Blossom) experiment on 2/2.       [The experiment recorded the floating state of cherry blossom petals in micro-G using the TM750 3D camcorder.  Space Sakura is a JAXA educational payload in which the behavior of Sakura under microgravity is intended to bring new emotion and creativity and to open up a new world of Japanese traditional craft such as Origami.]
 
André performed the periodic leak check on the WRS ARFTA #1 (Water Recovery System Advanced Recycle Filter Tank Assembly 1) by verifying that the “Quantity” ball bearing is still next to the Kapton tape marking from 1/28.
 
At ~5:30am, Anton Shkaplerov had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
At ~7:30am, Don Pettit powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 7:40am conducted a ham radio session with students at Zespol Szkol nr. 8, Walbrzych, Poland.
 
At ~1:40pm, Anton, Anatoly &amp; Oleg supported a Russian PAO TV event, downlinking messages of greetings to Russia’s Science Day in February, in commemoration of which the Kalinin Central House of Culture in Korolev will be hosting an event to honor science &amp; industrial complex employees who will be getting awards from the Moscow Regional Government, the Deputy Council of the City of Korolev, Moscow Region, and Administration of the City of Korolev, Moscow Region.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).
 

