
Axiom-3 (Ax-3) Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Undock: SpaceX Crew Dragon Freedom splashed down off the coast of Florida at 7:29 AM CST and returned private astronauts Michael López-Alegría, Walter Villadei, Alper Gezeravcı, and Marcus Wandt following a successful 18 day docked mission.
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): The crew performed a routine, periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. The crew also took photos of the placards. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems, as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space for approximately six months before returning to Earth for analysis.
Advanced Plant Experiment-10 (APEX-10): The crew took photos of the plants growing in twenty of the APEX-10 petri plates. Plant and microbial associations are key to the success of individual plants, but scientists do not yet understand how the space environment may alter these associations. Plant-Microbe Interactions in Space (APEX-10) tests whether the beneficial microbe Trichoderma harzianum confers increased stress resilience and improved growth to seedlings of tomato plants (Lycopersicum esculentum) when the two are grown together in microgravity.
Biological Research in Canisters-25 (BRIC-25): The crew gathered the BRIC-25 canisters from the BRIC-LED facility and transferred them to a Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) to be frozen. BRIC-25 studies the effect of low Earth orbit on the physiology, cell-to-cell communication, and virulence of the bacterial pathogen Staphylococcus aureus. Results could support more refined predictions about the risk that S. aureus poses to astronauts during flight and help protect their health on future missions.
Flawless Space Fibers-1:  The processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next set in the series. Fiber was not able to be successfully pulled from this first sample, but this is not uncommon as the team determines optimum conditions for the pull. Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consist of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3 and 20% NaF. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
Immunity Assay: The samples were processed, and the experiment hardware was stowed. Today was the final day of the four-day experiment session. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with the School of Telecommunications Engineering, ETSIT Valencia (Universitat Politecnica de Valencia (UPV)) in Valencia, Spain. Since the earliest ISS expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crewmembers 10 to 20 questions.
Microgravity Associated Bone Loss-A (MABL-A): The crew performed the MABL-A media exchanges and sample collections. MABL-A assesses the effects of microgravity on bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), specifically their capacity to secrete bone forming and bone dissolving cytokines (small, secreted proteins that affect other cells). MSCs produce bone-forming cells and are known to play a role in making and repairing skeletal tissues. Results could provide a better understanding of the basic molecular mechanisms associated with bone loss caused by spaceflight and normal aging on Earth.
Systems:
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Hydraulic Components Remove and Replace (R&R): As part of regular maintenance, the crew removed the Urine Valve Block, urine lines, and urine pressure sensors, and then performed the component replacement. This maintenance activity occurs every year in order to change out the WHC water components due to hardware life expirations or as needed to improve system performance.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from the Toilet System and WHC or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS EveryWear Medication Tracking: The crew recorded daily medication intake. EveryWear is an application on the crew’s personal tablets which connects to remote “wearable” sensors built into intelligent clothing. The program allows for extensive physiology data collection for both science research and medical follow-up purposes. This data will be used for current ISS crew provision and exercise planning, as well as providing a better understanding of Human Spaceflight in general.
