
Kubik: Over the weekend a crewmember performed upgrades, checkout and activation of the Kubik 6 hardware. Samples from Kubik 5 were transferred to Kubik 6 and the Kubik 5 was de-installed and stowed. Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator or cooler with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic microgravity experiments such as those using seeds, cells, and small animals. 
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): Today crewmembers performed a Manifold #2 high percentage O2 Bottle and Gas Chromatograph (CG) bottle changeout on the front Optics Bench. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity.
Marrow: Today a crewmember performed the MARROW breath and Ambient air setup for tomorrow morning’s sample collection and took documentary photos. Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
ISS HAM: Today a crewmember swapped out the Columbus ISS HAM packet module  with a new unit that arrived on 71P. A crewmember also executed a HAM pass with Colégio Campo de Flores, Almada, Portugal. International Space Station Ham Radio (ISS Ham Radio) provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units. 
Water Storage System (WSS) Installation: The crew began the WSS installation in the Lab. Today, the crew assembled the WSS Potable Tank Assembly and installed it into the modified Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) located at LAB1D4. WSS will improve existing resupply/waste water management and iodinated water storage capabilities on ISS. The WSS water storage tanks arrived onboard NG-10. The remaining hardware needed for the rack will be manifested on a subsequent visiting vehicle. 
Northrop Grumman 10 (NG-10) Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued Cygnus cargo operations in preparation for the vehicle departure, currently planned for February 8.
Starboard Radiator Imagery: This afternoon ground teams will position the Starboard Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint (TRRJ) to allow the crew to take pictures of the S1 Radiator. This is done annually to help assess the structural integrity of the radiator and inspect for any previously unidentified damage.

