All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 CDR Fincke &amp; FE-2 Magnus (as subject) completed the PFE protocol, a monthly 1.5-hr. procedure which checks up on blood pressure and electrocardiogram (ECG) during programmed exercise on the CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation) in the Lab.  Fincke assisted the FE-2 as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Readings were taken with the BP/ECG (blood pressure/electrocardiograph) and the HRM (heart rate monitor) watch with its radio transmitter.    [BP/ECG provides automated noninvasive systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements while also monitoring and displaying accurate heart rates on a continual basis at rest and during exercise.] 
 
 In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-2 Magnus performed refitting maintenance on the FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory).    [Sandy replaced four AVM (Anti Vibration Mount) brackets with two FSL latches for locking the FCE (Facility Core Element), then removed the failed GEOFLOW EC (Experiment Container), bagging it for return to the ground, and re-installed the ECP Video By-Pass Connector, which Greg Chamitoff had deinstalled on 7/28/08 for GEOFLOW, at the EC's Panel Video P301.] 
 
 In the Lab, Magnus conducted periodic equipment inspections &amp; work volume cleaning on the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), including supporting the ground in verifying proper functioning of MSG sensors.    [Onboard steps included activation of the MLT (MGS Laptop Computer), turning off MSG fans, switching to delta-pressure sensor #2, activating air circulation, then switching back to dP sensor #1, turning the lights off and putting the facility on Standby.]
 
 In preparation of his upcoming periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 evaluation of physical fitness on the TVIS treadmill, Lonchakov checked out the Kardiokassette KK-2000 storage device and its belt with three chest electrodes.
 
 On the Russian Matryoshka-R (RBO-3-2) radiation payload in the DC-1, the FE-1 deactivated the AST Spectrometer, removed its INC18-ALC-959 PCMCIA (Portable Computer Memory Card International Adapter) and checked it out for number and size of data files on the RSK-1 laptop.  AST remains off. 
 
 As the ground completed the overnight leak integrity test on the FCF CIR (Fluid &amp; Combustion Facility/Combustion Integrated Rack) and powered down, the FE-2 supported the payload by throwing the power switch off, then opening (later closing) the upper &amp; lower FCF doors as well as the combustion chamber front-end cap for venting.    [More commissioning work ahead.]
 
 Mike Fincke performed the regular 30-day inspection of the new AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack.     [The AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient.  It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.  AEDs are generally either held by trained personnel who will attend events or are public access units which can be found in places including corporate and government offices, shopping centers, airports, restaurants, casinos, hotels, sports stadiums, schools and universities, community centers, fitness centers, health clubs and any other location where people may congregate.]
 
 To support troubleshooting of the video MPC (Multi-Purpose Converter) system by the ground, Sandy set up the HD (High Definition) TV equipment, showing an onboard scene with a moving object in it.     [The HD MPC signal has been exhibiting significant glitches and dropouts during recent PAO events.  Until the issue is solved, the crew was requested to set up standard definition (SD) television simultaneous with HD MPC, and to conduct the events with audio on S/G 2 since the audio also can drop out in certain circumstances.]
 
 Mike undertook another periodic relocation of the TEPC (Tissue Equivalent Proportional Counter) detector assembly, the primary radiation measurement tool in the ISS, today from the starboard CQ (Crew Quarters) in Node-2 to SM Panel 327.     [TEPC had been moved to the starboard CQ on 1/20, after having been in the portside CQ since 12/26, in the SM on Panel 327 from 11/27 and before that in the Node-2 from 11/10.] 
 
 In preparation of the Progress M-01M/31P undocking on 2/5, Yuri Lonchakov took out the cargo ship's LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12 and its PZU-1M ROM (read-only memory) unit.   [When a Progress is undocked and jettisoned, the valuable electronics are retained, to be recycled on a future vehicle.]
 
 Also for the undocking, Yuri &amp; Mike worked in the transfer tunnel to install the SSVP StM docking mechanism (Stykovochnovo mekhanizma) between the cargo ship and the DC-1, a one-hour routine activity.  The StM is usually folded out of the way to allow passage into the docked spacecraft.     [The StM is the "classic" probe-and-cone type, consisting of an active docking assembly (ASA) with a probe (SSh), which fits into the cone (SK) on the passive docking assembly (PSA) for initial soft dock and subsequent retraction to hard dock.  The ASA is mounted on the Progress' cargo module (GrO), while the PSA sits on the docking ports of the SM, FGB and DC1.] 
 
 In the US Airlock, Mike Fincke prepared for the 15A spacewalks by initiating recharge on REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery), EHIP (EMU Helmet Interchangeable Portable) light and EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) batteries, followed by troubleshooting BC-2 (Battery Charger 2).    [This is the first of two recharges required to prepare all EVA batteries for 15A.]
 
 Afterwards, Mike ”degassed” EMU PWRs (Payload Water Reservoirs) #1003, #1005, #1032 (i.e., getting the air out of the water by simple centrifugation).
 
 The FE-1 performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.] 
 
 Yuri also conducted the regular daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance task by updating/editing the IMS standard “delta file” including stowage locations for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 The station residents completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 STS-119 Launch Slip:    At the STS 119/15A Level 1 FRR (Flight Readiness Review), it was decided that STS-119 launch will not occur on 2/12.  More time is needed to build flight rationale for STS 119/15A given the Orbiter's GH2 flow control valve failure on the STS 126/ULF2 mission.  The status of the engineering work will be reviewed on 2/10.  A "delta Level 1 FRR" will be held on 2/12 to possibly set a launch date. For planning purposes teams were directed to work to a launch date of no earlier than 2/19.
 
 
