
Cygnus NG-20 Arrival: Following launch on Tuesday, January 30th, the Cygnus NG-20 cargo vehicle was captured at 3:59 AM CST and berthed to the ISS at 7:07 AM CST today, February 1st. Cygnus was berthed to the Node 1 Nadir port and has successfully delivered more than 8,200 pounds of science investigations, crew supplies, and hardware to the ISS crew.
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom 3:
Outreach, Commercial, and Payload Activities:
The Ax-3 crew worked today to wrap up their time onboard the ISS and to begin preparing for undock.  The crew completed the final live outreach event planned for the mission: an ESA-sponsored ICE Cubes Media Set event between Alper Gezeravcı and school children in Türkiye. The crew also completed several commercial and outreach imagery activities. The Ax-3 crew worked to wrap up several National Lab-sponsored payloads including Food Experience, ISOC, Ready Pasta and Vocalcord. Marcus Wandt also performed activities for multiple ESA-sponsored science investigations including Astro Bit, AstroPi, Biolab, Bone Health, Cimon, Orbital Architecture, Plasma Kristall-4, and Sleep in Orbit. The crew has begun the preparations for undocking, including stowage and prepacking items for return.
Payloads:
Analyzing Interferometer for Ambient Air-2 (ANITA-2): ANITA-2 air samples were acquired from the NG-20 open volume for chemical analysis in ANITA-2. The ANITA-2 is a compact gas analyzer which can analyze and quantify 33 trace contaminants in the atmosphere aboard the ISS automatically. ANITA-2 can also detect the presence of unknown substances which can be evaluated later on the ground.
Astro Bit (Ax-3): The Ax-3 crew performed an experiment session to verify the Astro Bit system was responding correctly to the nine different pre-defined gestures. These gestures included movement of the experiment hardware, shaking, a 3-g shock load, tilting, etc. As part of the ultra:space, Coding on ISS with Astro Bit experiment, students in Denmark and the other Scandinavian countries design an experiment that can also be repeated aboard the ISS with an interesting scientific outcome. The students program their own BBC micro:bit microcontrollers to implement their experiment and submit the resulting code, while being permitted to use a number of ISS common items. The winning five experiments are then performed and filmed aboard the ISS using the Astro Bit experiment. The results are downlinked to Earth and returned to the student teams for analysis.
Bone Health (Ax-3): Data from the Bone Health experiment sessions was transferred to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for later downlink to the ground team and the hardware was stowed. This completes Bone Health (Ax-3) objectives. The Assessment of the Bone Turn-over and Bone Morphology – Is There a Post Re-entry Bone Loss in Short-duration Mission Crew Members? (Bone Health) investigation studies the existence, or non-existence, of protracted bone loss after short-duration spaceflight (up to two months). While such protracted bone loss is well established in experimental bed-rest studies (a ground-based analog of microgravity), the same losses could not be found after long-term spaceflight. To assess the underlying effects, both radiological as well as biochemical methods of studying bone loss are used.
ESA Education Payload Operations (EPO) (Ax-3): The Ax-3 crew recorded a video featuring the ESA mascot PAXI discussing various aspects of meal preparation, eating, and clean up for young viewers. Topics included conservation, recycling, and a discussion of the various life support systems on the ISS. This video will be used as an inspirational tool to educate children about closed-loop systems, like Earth.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with Alabama School of Cyber Technology and Engineering in Huntsville, AL. Since the earliest ISS expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crewmembers 10 to 20 questions. 
Italian Space Surveillance and Tracking (SST) Operations Center (ISOC) (Ax-3): The Ax-3 crew inserted information into the ground-based ISOC website, which then calculated orbital debris probabilities, and recorded space weather events. ISOC evaluates a web-based space situational awareness (SSA) tool on the ISS. The investigation assesses the tool’s ability to conduct autonomous analysis of the risk of collision between a satellite and another object in orbit and compares space weather alerts with the actual experience of crew members. 
Life Support Rack (LSR) (Ax-3): The Ax-3 crew performed the steps necessary to exchange the Activated Carbon/Ion Exchange (ACTEX) cartridge and hydrogen sensors in the LSR facility. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. It captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR will operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Lumina (Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter) (Ax-3): The Lumina experiment hardware was power cycled, and the data was transferred. Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, or high frequency wave photons and neutrons.
Orbital Architecture (Ax-3): The crew filled out an Orbital Architecture questionnaire using the EveryWear app. These questionnaires are designed to assess the perceived sleep quality and stress levels. The space habitats current and future astronauts live in can influence their mental performance and their stress. This investigation studies how architectural properties influence mental capacities and stress and will try to inform the design of future space habitats using evidence-based tests.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4) (Ax-3): To prepare for experiment data downlink, an Ax-3 crewmember connected the PK-4 data hard drive to the Columbus Network Monitoring and Administration Unit (CMAU) laptop. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Vocalcord (Ax-3): The Ax-3 crew performed calibrations and collected test data for various vocal parameters using the Vocalcord application. This was done for morning and evening sessions. Vocalcord is a project developing an artificial intelligence (AI) system that can analyze respiratory, phonation, and cough sounds to detect over 70 types of diseases, including some cancers.
Systems:
Cygnus Arrival Operations: The crew completed various activities to capture and berth the NG-20 vehicle upon arrival to the ISS. This included configuring the Robotics Workstation (RWS), closing the Cupola and Lab window shutters, and capturing the Cygnus vehicle with the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). Upon capture and berthing to the Node 1 Nadir port, the crew performed vestibule pressurization and a leak check. After opening the Node 1 hatch, the crew performed some vestibule outfitting, rotated the Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA), and ingressed Cygnus. The crew also began cargo operations by unpacking the Double Coldbags.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC ЕДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The fill was then terminated, and the Post-Flight Analysis Bag was analyzed after the pressure relief burp. The ЕДВ-СВ is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the ЕДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and WHC or from external storage containers into the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
Treadmill 2 (T2) Monthly Inspection: The crew completed a regular maintenance inspection to ensure the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition. The crew inspected all four Snubber Arms for any sign of free play, as well as make any necessary adjustments to reduce the free play. The crew also performed additional inspections for Sorbothane residue on Snubber Pins, the Snubber Pin position within the Snubber Cup, and all tape and witness markings on the T2 Thumbwheels, Snubber Jam Nuts, and Snubber Cup Housing.
