
Burning and Suppression of Solids – Milliken (BASS-M):  Today Kopra completed the second set of BASS-M operations, preparing and testing five different samples with ground assistance from the Principal Investigator.  The BASS-M investigation tests flame-retardant cotton fabrics to determine how well they resist burning in microgravity. Results benefit research on flame-retardant textiles that can be used on Earth and in space.
 
Skin-B:  Peake completed a session today for the European Space Agency (ESA) Skin-B investigation.  He obtained Corneometer measurements of the hydration level of the stratus coreum (outer layer of the skin), Tewameter measurements of the skin barrier function, and Visioscan measurements of skin surface topography. The Skin-B investigation aims to improve the understanding of skin aging, which is greatly accelerated in space.  The data will also be used to verify the results from previous testing for the SkinCare investigation on the ISS.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Operations:  Peake opened the outer hatch of the JEM Airlock and extended the Airlock Slide Table external to the ISS.  Ground controllers then transferred Cyclops from the Small Fine Arm (SFA) on the JEMRMS to the Slide Table.  Once the transfer was complete, Peake brought the Slide Table back into the Airlock.  Later this week ISS crewmembers will remove Cyclops and stow it on-board the ISS.
 
Biolab Door Removal:  Peake removed the Biolab Door Assembly and replaced it with a dummy cover.  The assembly will be returned to the ground for repair.
 
Fine Motor Skills:  Kelly, Kornienko and Peake each completed sessions of the Fine Motor Skills experiment today.  During the experiment they performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
 
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Collection:  Kelly, Kopra, and Peake worked to obtain ITCS coolant samples from the Lab, Node 2, Node 3, and Columbus modules today. The samples will be prepared for return onboard SpaceX-8.
 
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Cargo Operations:  The crew completed transferring Cygnus cargo to ISS on Friday.   Today, Kelly started loading trash into Cygnus.  An estimated 6.5 hours remain to complete the trash loading.  Cygnus is scheduled to unberth from ISS on February 19th.
 
Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Fault:  This afternoon the OGA faulted to shutdown due to a failed H2 sensor.  The OGA will be taken to standby until the H2 sensor can be replaced. There is one spare sensor on-orbit.
 

