ISS On-Orbit Status 02/03/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 <ul style="margin-top: 0pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 36pt; "> <li>At Baikonur/Kazakhstan, the new cargo ship Progress M-04M/36P was launched successfully last night at 10:45pm EST on a Soyuz-U rocket.  Ascent was nominal, and all spacecraft systems are without issues.  Docking to the ISS at the SM (Service Module) aft port is planned for tomorrow, Thursday (2/4) at ~11:26pm.  36P carries about 2.4 tons of water, food, gases, propellants, consumables &amp; scientific equipment. </li></ul> 
 At wake-up, FE-4 Kotov began his day with the regular daily checkup of the aerosol filters at the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator.    [The filters were installed by Suraev on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Photographs are to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 CDR Williams completed his second blood draw and processing for the new Vascular Blood Collection protocol, then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  FE-5 Noguchi assisted with the phlebotomy.
 
 FE-1 Suraev broke out &amp; set up the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his fifth, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment, supported by ground specialist tagup, was then closed out and the test data downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]
 
 In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-6 Creamer performed major (+3h) maintenance work on the U.S. WRS2 (Water Recovery System 2) Rack.    [After first removing the RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) #009 from the WRS rack front, TJ exchanged the rack-resident WRS2 brine hose segment between the (absent) DA (Distillation Assembly) and FCPA (Fluids Control Pump Assembly) with a new hose segment, followed by the installation of a new RFTA (#001) in the rack.]
 
 Oleg Kotov completed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated at ~4:15pm EST before sleep time.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 1/11 &amp;1/12).]
 
 In the SM, Kotov replaced the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit of the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generation system with a new unit, prepacking the old BKO for return to Earth.    
 
 Afterwards, Oleg supported the ground-commanded re-activation of the Elektron, which had to be turned off for the BKO R&amp;R, by monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.    [The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H<sub>2</sub>) in the O<sub>2</sub> line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.]
 
 Noguchi initiated (later terminated) another 5-hr sampling run (the 67<sup>th</sup>) with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer).  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.    [The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
 Using his body for creating rotational acceleration (centrifugal force, ~15 RPM) while holding the CWC-I (Iodinated Contingency Water Container) by the bungees or straps on its cover, the FE-5 worked on de-gassing (removing air bubbles from) four CWC-Is (##1019, 1009, 1017, 1023).    [The leading suspected cause of the failure of the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) is air in the potable water bus.  CWC-Is are known to contain air in their water, which can make its way into the potable water system.  This crew-developed procedure is used to de-gas CWC-Is and is one of several procedures that will be executed in an attempt to bring the PWD back into operation.]
 
 In the Kibo lab, Soichi performed the watering and cultivation of the JAXA Dewey’s Forest experiment’s PUs (Plant Units).     [Dewey’s Forest, one of the Japanese educational payloads, is intended to show how gravity controls the laws of nature and influences our ways of thinking. The project is “a catalyst to rediscover our relationship with plants on the ground and the age-old history of our gardens.”]
 
 Afterwards, the FE-5 collected Exp-22 Week 17 water samples in the SM for ground analysis, taking them from the SRV-K hot, SRV-K warm, and SVO-ZV taps.    [Soichi collected three 500 mL microbial postflight samples and two 750 mL chemical postflight samples for return on 20A.]
 
 CDR Williams conducted the periodic inspection of the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) flush water tank (EDV-SV) for air bubbles, taking photographs and returning the tank to service.
 
 Soichi later performed the periodic manual filling of the WHC flush water tank from CWCs containing condensate.    [The toilet was unavailable for use until completion of both activities.]
 
 Jeff completed the weekly 10-min. CWC inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week.     [The current card (22-0003I) lists 83 CWCs (1,890.1 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (16 CWCs with 533.9 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 184.2 L in 8 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 215.5 L in 5 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 1 bag with 23.0 L contains Wautersia, 1 bag with 43.6 L requires sample analysis &amp; 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (52 CWCs with 905.4 L),  4. condensate water (1 bag with 35.8 L, bag with 28.1L [known leaker], 2 empty CWCs), and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (1 CWC with 20.2 L, 1 empty CWC).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 The CDR conducted the periodic inspection of PEPs (Portable Emergency Provisions) on board, checking PFEs (Portable Fire Extinguishers, PBAs (Portable Breathing Apparatus) and EHTKs (Extension Hose Tee Kits).  Inspection of QDMA (Quick-Don Mask Assembly) harnesses was not required.    [PFEs: 2 in Node-1, 1 in A/L, 2 in Lab,1 in Node-2, 2 in JPM, 2 in COL.  PBA O<sub>2</sub> Bottles: 1 in Node-1, 2 in A/L, 2 in Lab, 2 in Node-2, 2 in JPM, 2 in COL.  QDMAs: 1 in Node-1, 5 in A/L, 2 in Lab, 2 in Node-2, 2 in JPM, 2 in COL.  EHTKs: 1 in Node-1, 2 in Lab, 2 in Node-2.  During the 20A docked mission, PEP systems will be moved around in the station in a “musical chairs” process depending on situational requirements. ] 
 
 Jeff Williams concluded his fourth ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity.  Later, he downloaded the data from all devices to the HRF (Human Research Function) PC1 laptop.    [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
 Also, for the start of his ICV Resting Echo session tomorrow, Williams’ required diet &amp; exercise restrictions began today.
 
 In preparation for STS-130/20A arrival, Jeff pre-gathered IVA (intravehicular activity) tools required for Node-3 “Tranquility” installation and outfitting. 
 
 Working with Oleg in the Soyuz TMA-16/20A spacecraft, Maxim disassembled the KURS-A hardware and removed it, to be recycled on a later flight.
 
 With Kotov taking photo/video documentation, Suraev set up the hardware of the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment at SM window #9 for another experiment run, charging the battery for the SONY HVR-Z1J camcorder, then recording and narrating the planned GFI-1 activities.    [Using the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment will observe the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #9, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]
 
 Starting another round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, Kotov used a vacuum cleaner and soft brush to clean the V3 ventilator grille in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok).
 
 On the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab, Jeff removed the alignment guides to allow activation of the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) by the ground for FCF (Fluids &amp; Combustion Facility) operations requiring a microgravity environment.
 
 Afterwards, the CDR conducted the periodic status &amp; screen check on the running payload CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus), located in the ER-2 (EXPRESS Rack 2).     [CGBA-5 is currently activated for DTN (Delay Tolerant Network) activities that are acting as a test bed for NASA HQ-sponsored communications research.  DTN software transmits messages between ISS and Mission Control Centers, and most of its operations run from the ground.  The DTN software sends CGBA-5 payload data to the ground, and automatic acknowledgement messages are generated by the ground to be passed back to the payload.]
 
 In the MSL (Microgravity Science Laboratory), Creamer exchanged the used SCA-3 (Sample Cartridge Assembly 3) with the next test sample (CETSOL #2).    [The ESA/NASA MSRR-1 (Material Science Research Rack 1) provides a powerful multi-user MSL with diverse EMs (Experiment Modules) so that many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied in micro-G to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.  MSRR experiments are coordinated by international teams that share different parts of the samples.  There are 25 investigators on three research teams participating in the first of these investigations.]
 
 In the SM, the FE-1 did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 CDR, FE-5 &amp; FE-6 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Soichi at ~6:15am, Jeff at ~12:30pm, TJ at ~1:30pm EST.
 
 At ~3:35am EST, Noguchi held a tagup with the Japanese Flight Control Team at SSIPC/Tsukuba via S-band/audio.   [This conference is scheduled once every week, between the ISS crewmembers and SSIPC.]
 
 At ~11:05am, Jeff had his own periodic IMS (Inventory Management System) stowage conference with stowage specialists at MCC-Houston.
 
 At ~1:00pm, all crewmembers will convene for their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office (Steve Lindsey), via S-band S/G-2 audio &amp; phone patch.
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-4).
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Singapore (Singapore is an island city-state located on the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula.  The population of Singapore is approximately 4.99 million [2008].  Overlapping images of Singapore were requested), Madrid, Spain (clear weather was predicted to hold over Madrid during this overpass.  The capital city of Spain is also the third-largest metro area in Europe [after Paris and London].  Looking slightly to the right of track during this descending pass over the target.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban area were requested), East Haruj Megafans, Libya (looking left towards the southeastern-most portion of these megafans.  Documenting the intricate networks of dry, overlapping stream channels.  Overlapping mapping frames, taken along track as ISS approached, passed over, and left the target area were requested to obtain useful imagery of the megafan surfaces), Mt. Kilimanjaro, Tanzania (clouds may ring the lower slopes of the mountain, but the peak is usually clear.  Recent excellent context views of Kilimanjaro from ISS [ISS22-E-33591 through 33593] were sent to a geoscientist who has been reviewing and using ISS imagery of Kilimanjaro for many years now.  At the end of last month he was at a southern hemisphere glacier meeting and he chose to put the most recent ISS imagery of Kilimanjaro into his talk.  He is interested in seasonal snow distribution.  Overlapping frames of the glaciers and snow cover on Kilimanjaro’s peak are useful for tracking change in ice and snow extent over time), Niamey, Niger (the capital of Niger is located in the extreme southwestern part of the country on the Niger River and has a population approaching 1 million.  As ISS approached the Niger River valley from the NW, looking slightly right of track for this fairly compact city on the river in an agricultural area), and Port au Prince, Haiti (weather was predicted to be relatively clear over the capital of Haiti.  Although weeks have passed since the earthquake, interest in this region remains high.  Relief efforts are continuing in the aftermath of the powerful earthquake that devastated the capital city.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban-rural fringe will be useful for potential detection of landslide scars resulting from the earthquake).
 
 
