
NanoRacks DreamUp Xtronaut Crystal Growth (DreamXCG):  The crew used hot water from the PWD to dissolve sugar crystals in two pouches and later transfer sugar water into the pouches with seeded dowels. This investigation teaches students about the effects of microgravity on crystal formations using near-identical flight kits flown and operated aboard the International Space Station (ISS). With access to crew member videos and data on the same experiment, students are able compare crystal formations in space to those in their classrooms. The investigation aims to promote science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields to the next generation of students. 
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Configuration for Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): The crew removed and replaced CIR manifold #2 bottle on the front of the optics bench. CIR provides sustained, systematic microgravity combustion research and it houses hardware capable of performing combustion experiments to further research of combustion in microgravity. This is for the ACME investigation which is a set of five independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the CIR. ACME’s primary goal is to improved fuel efficiency and reduced pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth. Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) loop scrub and conductivity test:  As part of the deconfiguration from the EVA activities over the past two weeks, the crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity.  These activities are required for long term health monitoring and maintenance of the EMUs.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Water Sampling:  Today the crew continued to sample fluid from the ITCS for return and analysis on the ground.  Today’s samples were taken from the US Lab module.  This is regularly scheduled preventive maintenance to verify health of the ITCS.
Eye Exams:  The crew completed routine Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and Fundoscope eye exams today.  Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.

