
Cerebral Autoregulation: The crew performed a Cerebral Autoregulation data session using the Cardiolab Portable Doppler (CDL PDOP) and the European Physiology Modules Facility Continuous Blood Pressure Device (EPM CBPD). As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. 
Bio-Monitor: The crew changed out the wearable body monitors as part of the hardware swap during a 48hr data recording session. The doffed garment was allowed to dry and then stowed. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way.  The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, Electrocardiogram (ECG), skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc.
NanoRacks External Cygnus CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD): The crew installed the NRCSD-17 mission CubeSats deployer onto the JEM MPEP (Multipurpose Experiment Platform) in preparation for next week’s deployment operations. Nine satellites will be deployed for this NRCSD mission. The quad deployer will launch SOCRATES, Argus-02, HARP, RadSat-u and Phoenix. The Triple deployer will launch SORTIE, QARMAN, CryoCube and AztechSat-1. The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer is a stackable, modular, ground loaded launch case.  Each NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer accommodates up to eight launch cases are stacked for each JEM Airlock opening. The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer meets the growing demand to deploy CubeSat format satellites from the International Space Station for a variety of customers.
Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Protein Crystallization Growth (JAXA-PCG): The crew retrieved the PCG 17 samples and placed them in the FROST2 cold stowage facility in preparation for 59S return. The objective of the JAXA PCG investigation is to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity. The crystals are returned to Earth to determine protein structures in detail; the structures are used to develop pharmaceutical drugs, and to explore the mystery of our lives. The protein samples are launched to the ISS by a Soyuz or Progress Vehicle, and crystallized at 20℃ using the counter-diffusion method.
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL): The crew swapped out the CO2 incubator controller in the SABL-3 unit. The Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL) supports a wide variety of experiments in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and experiments. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 for cell cultures and has 2 USB 2.0 ports and 2 Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28vdc and 5vdc power supplies for experiment use.
Systems: 
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Port and Overhead Cleaning: A USOS crewmember cleaned the Overhead and Port CQ today. During this activity, the crew cleaned behind panels, intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors as required.
Cygnus On-board Training: Today, the crewmembers scheduled to capture NG-13 (Cygnus) performed a Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. NG-13 is currently on track to launch on February 9th and be berthed to ISS on February 11th.
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review: All 61S crewmembers participated in this required training. Some of the topics covered were crew accountability during emergency situations, escape vehicle readiness, ISS Commander responsibilities and safe haven plan.
Columbus (COL) Centralized Cabin Filter (CCF) R&R: A USOS crewmember gathered equipment and replaced the High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) CCF in the COL Cabin Heat Exchanger (CHX) located in the COL1D1 Forward Rack.

