
Spinal Ultrasound Scan Operations:  Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio, with assistance from FE-6 Wakata and ground experts, performed his Flight Day 90 Spinal Ultrasound session. This investigation aims to characterize microgravity-associated spinal alterations during and after spaceflight using in-flight ultrasound. Results from this research will provide data to enhance crew health for long duration space missions.
Body Measures Investigation:  FE-3 Hopkins, with operator assistance from Wakata, set up cameras and cabin video, performed body marker instrumentation, and collected calibration and body pose photos and circumference measurements. This is Hopkins’ return minus 30 day (R-30) session.  The goal of this study is to gather data to better understand the magnitude and variability of changes due to microgravity and fluid shifts within the human body during long-duration space flight.  Results of the investigation may result in changes to space suit fit and sizing, workstation design, etc. for future missions to maximize performance, prevent injury, and reduce crew time to accommodate their anthropometrics.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons 2 (RaDI-N2) Detector Deploy:  Wakata deployed 6 “bubble detectors” in a special pouch and 2 others in individual pouches in the JEM for the final of four runs in the ISS.  Radi-N2 is a follow-on investigation of RaDI-N1 and the Matroshka-R experiments.  RaDI-N2 is designed to characterize the neutron radiation environment inside the ISS. The 8 neutron “bubble detectors” are attached to fixed locations inside the ISS, including one carried by a crewmember. The results of this investigation will be used to define the risk to ISS crewmembers’ health and in the development of advanced protective measures for future space flights.
Blood Pressure Regulation (BP Reg) Experiment:  Hopkins set up hardware to support the leg cuff and rebreathing protocol for the Canadian Space Agency BP Reg experiment.  Tomorrow, he will perform the experiment protocol on himself.  BPReg tests the efficacy of an in-flight manipulation of arterial blood pressure as an indicator of post-flight response to a brief stand test.  Space flight negatively impacts the regulation of BP on return to an upright posture on earth.  This experiment has potential application for the general population, where dizziness and fainting (syncope) are major health problems and are especially important for elderly, where falling is a major contributor to bone fracture.  A better understanding of the mechanisms responsible for fainting could reduce the risk of injury.
Cygnus Cargo Load:  Hopkins and Wakata loaded the final disposal items scheduled for the Cygnus vehicle.  Cygnus is scheduled to unberth on February 18th.

