
Payloads:
Actiwatch Plus:  Four Actiwatch Plus devices were connected to the HRF Payload Drawer on HRF Rack 1 for charging and data download.  The Actiwatch is a waterproof, nonintrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. The device contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data are stored in nonvolatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
BioNutrients:  A crewmember performed hydration, agitation, and incubation of the BioNutrients-1 Production Packs.  BioNutrients demonstrates a technology that enables on-demand production of human nutrients during long-duration space missions. The process uses engineered microbes, like yeast, to generate carotenoids from an edible media to supplement potential vitamin losses from food that is stored for very long periods. Specially designed storage/growth packets are intermittently activated by astronauts over a five-year period, then frozen and returned to Earth for examination.
CBEF-L (Cell Biology Experiment Facility):  The CBEF-L was cleaned and reconfigured from configuration G (sample tray and centrifuge) to configuration H (two centrifuges).  CBEF-L is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original CBEF currently aboard the ISS.  CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24V D/C power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment.  By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Concrete Hardening:  The ISS Portable Glovebag was setup and the 2nd set of Operations were conducted on Concrete Hardening Kits.  Material Science on the Solidification of Concrete (Concrete Hardening) investigates how lack of gravity affects the hardening process and resulting properties of concrete.  Different mixtures of cement, water, sand, simulated lunar regolith, and other additives are mixed and left to harden in microgravity.  Analysis of material strength, bubble and pore distribution, as well as crystal structures in comparison with ground samples, will help in the development of materials for construction of habitats in lunar or planetary exploration.
Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys Under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions (MICAST):  A crewmember removed the used MSL Sample Cartridge, installed the new Sample Cartridge for MICAST #3 and prepared the facility for the next experiment run.  The MICAST investigation aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. The patterns of the crystals resulting from transitions of liquids to solids is of substantial importance to processes in producing materials such as solar cells, thermoelectrics, and metal alloys.
ROAM (Relative Operations for Autonomous Maneuvers):  The Astrobee Free Flyers were setup for the 2nd session to test an autonomous rendezvous algorithm and assist the ground team in monitoring Astrobee performance of autonomous robotic rendezvous with a tumbling target.  ROAM demonstrates processes for a robotic craft to rendezvous with debris in space.  Space debris includes satellites that could be repaired or taken out of orbit, but many of these objects are tumbling, which makes rendezvous and docking challenging.  ROAM uses the International Space Station’s Astrobee robots to observe and understand how targets tumble and uses this information to plan ways to safely reach them.
Systems:
Environmental Health System (EHS) Operations: As part of regular maintenance to ensure crew health, the crew performed EHS water sampling by auditing and organizing 1.0 unit-sized Cargo Transfer Bags (CTB). The crew also conducted acoustic monitoring surveys in multiple designated habitable locations around the station to capture sound level data every second as well as an audio recording for the duration of the measurement.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Operations: EMU 3015 encountered a hardline communications issue during a previous EMU preparation activity.  Today, the crew worked with the ground team to troubleshoot and isolate where the squealing sound is coming from.  Additionally, the crew performed an EMU Swap to reconfigure EMUs on EMU Don-Doff Assemblies (EDDAs) for upcoming activities.
Eye Exams: The crew completed routine Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) eye exams today. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.

