
Axiom-3 (Ax-3) Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Undock: SpaceX Crew Dragon Freedom undocked from the ISS at 8:15 AM CST to return private astronauts Michael López-Alegría, Walter Villadei, Alper Gezeravcı, and Marcus Wandt following a successful 18 day docked mission. The vehicle is scheduled to splash down near Daytona, Florida, on Friday at 7:30 AM CST.
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (Antimicrobial Coatings-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. They also took photos of the placards. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space for approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis. 
Advanced Plant Experiment-10 (APEX-10): The crew took photos of the plants growing in the forty APEX-10 petri plates. Plant and microbial associations are key to the success of individual plants, but scientists do not yet understand how the space environment may alter these associations. Plant-Microbe Interactions in Space (APEX-10) tests whether the beneficial microbe Trichoderma harzianum confers increased stress resilience and improved growth to seedlings of tomato plants (Lycopersicum esculentum) when the two are grown together in microgravity.
Biological Research in Canisters-25 (BRIC-25): The four BRIC-25 canisters were actuated to initiate the science. BRIC-25 studies the effect of low Earth orbit on the physiology, cell-to-cell communication, and virulence of the bacterial pathogen Staphylococcus aureus. Results could support more refined predictions about the risk that S. aureus poses to astronauts during flight and help protect their health on future missions. 
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light start-of-next-day assessment was performed in support of this continuing investigation. Circadian Light tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Flawless Space Fibers: The crew completed the Flawless Space Fibers hardware setup in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consist of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3 and 20% NaF.  Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground. 
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with Lilburn Elementary School in Lilburn, GA. Lilburn Elementary School is part of the award-winning Gwinnett County public school district located in the suburbs of Atlanta, Georgia. Since the earliest ISS expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crewmembers 10 to 20 questions.
NanoRacks MainFrame Alpha (MFA): The NanoRacks Module-92 was installed into the MFA facility. Module-92 contains the experiment Modulation of Granulosa and Theca Cells Activity in Real Microgravity: Consequences for Human Health and Reproduction. The experiment examines how microgravity influences maturation of Theca and Granulosa cells in the ovaries. Granulosa cells help modulate egg maturation and fertility, and Theca cells provide structural integrity for follicles, where egg formation occurs. Weightlessness may impair ovarian function and results could support development of countermeasures to protect reproductive function in humans spending extended periods of time on the Moon and Mars.
Space Hematopoietic Stem Cell Aging-2 (SASHA-2) (Ax-3): Samples were collected for the in-flight portion of the SASHA-2 experiment. SASHA-2 evaluates messenger Ribonucleic Acid (m-RNA) editing enzymes that are related to the development of inflammatory disease and cancer. Blood samples taken before, during, and after spaceflight are analyzed to better understand the changes in the editing activity of these enzymes and other changes in blood stem cells that occur due to spaceflight.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: A VR Mental Care session was performed. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires via the ESA EveryWear app.
Systems:
Crew Dragon Tablet Sync: After yesterday’s aborted activity, the crew updated the tablet data from the SpaceX virtual private network (VPN) using CloudNet prior to the undock of Ax-3. These updates were required in order to update the Ax-3 undock forecast weather maps and the upcoming timelines for crew awareness.
Barcode Reader Inspection & Reconfiguration: On February 3rd, the Russian crew reported that one of the onboard Barcode Reader screens was pushed up and deformed. Today, the crew performed an activity to inspect the remaining five Barcode Readers to determine if any others exhibit the same deformity. One other reader was found deformed and was disposed of with the initial reader. The remaining readers are still in good condition.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis and Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the PWD using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
