
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom 3:
Outreach, Commercial, and Payload Activities:
Today, the Ax-3 crew continued to wrap up their time onboard the ISS and prepare for undock. They completed one final NASA-supported PAO event: a Farewell Ceremony with the Expedition 70 crew. The Ax-3 crew also took imagery of the RSat Cube Target prior to stowing it for return on Ax-3, and Walter Villadei set up for tomorrow’s ambient blood draw for Space Hematopoietic collection, an ISS National Lab-sponsored payload. Marcus Wandt performed final activities for the ESA-sponsored Orbital Architecture science investigation. Additionally, the crew also performed standard undock prep activities including cargo transfer, departure review, and a departure conference. The crew ended their day by completing a housekeeping activity which included returning commonly used hardware (cameras, tools, etc.) to their usual locations and settings.
Payloads:
Biological Research in Canisters-25 (BRIC-25): BRIC-25 Canisters were transferred to the BRIC-Light Emitting Diode Facility. BRIC-25 studies the effect of low Earth orbit on the physiology, cell-to-cell communication, and virulence of the bacterial pathogen Staphylococcus aureus. Results could support more refined predictions about the risk that S. aureus poses to astronauts during flight and help protect their health on future missions.
Immune Cell Activation: Immune Cell activation samples were removed from Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator-4 (MERLIN-4) and inserted into Kubik 5. The goal of the Immune Cell Activation investigation is to understand whether the microgravity environment has an effect on the incorporation of magnetic nanoparticles in immune and melanoma cells. If the hypothesis that space conditions are ideal for the up-load of nanoparticles by T-cells is true, then from a cellular point of view a modification of gene expression, or a differential protein activity, must be present.
JAXA Media Take: A JAXA educational event was recorded with crewmembers answering various questions. The JAXA Edcuational Payload Operations (EPO) includes conducting cultural activities such as writing reports about and filming video of activities aboard the ISS. These tools can help inform the public about the importance of the ISS, JAXA’s Kibo module, and human spaceflight.
Microgravity Associated Bone Loss-A (MABL-A): MABL-A hardware was inserted Into the Life Science Glovebox (LSG). MABL-A assesses the effects of microgravity on bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), specifically their capacity to secrete bone forming and bone dissolving cytokines (small, secreted proteins that affect other cells). MSCs produce bone-forming cells and are known to play a role in making and repairing skeletal tissues. Results could provide a better understanding of the basic molecular mechanisms of bone loss caused by spaceflight and normal aging on Earth.
Orbital Architecture (Ax-3): The Ax-3 crew filled out an Orbital Architecture questionnaire using the EveryWear app, performed cognitive assessment tests, and concluded the experiment. These questionnaires are designed to assess the perceived sleep quality and stress levels. The space habitats in which astronauts live can influence their mental performance and their stress. This investigation studies how architectural properties influence mental capacities and stress and will try to inform the design of future space habitats by using evidence-based tests.
Robotic Arm Repair Satellite (RSat) (Ax-3): Photos were taken of the RSat cube target and it was packed for return on Ax-3. The remaining RSat hardware was stowed. RSat operated in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and demonstrates a small satellite platform to survey and possibly repair larger conventional spacecraft on orbit. The CubeSat has robotic arms fitted with claws and cameras to obtain diagnostic information and is intended to operate in constant contact with a host spacecraft. Results could advance the use of robotic assistance on future space missions.
Rhodium Crystal Preservation-02: Rhodium Crystal Preservation-02 Science Chambers were transferred into an ambient locker.         A Novel Crystal Preservation Method for Biological Material (Rhodium Crystal Preservation) studies a technique using crystal formation to preserve biological material for research.  Such preservations can present a challenge for research outside of standard laboratory settings. Crystals do not require special conditions such as cold stowage to maintain the material’s structure for future analysis and could provide a solution.
TangoLab Mission-35: Cube UCON_CAR02 was installed into card serial number (S/N) 030 and installed in slot A of TangoLab-3. Additionally, Cube QUST_NXT02 (Mission-13) was removed from card S/N 34 from slot A and Card UCON_CAR01 (Mission-35) was installed into card S/N 034 and installed in slot A of TangoLab 4. Compartment Cartilage Tissue Construct uses biological materials that mimic DNA to develop a scaffold for regenerating cartilage tissues and tests the effect of a specific RNA on cartilage growth in space. Microgravity causes cartilage degeneration that could hinder the health and performance of people on long-term space missions and in environments with lower gravity levels such as the Moon and Mars. Characterization of the Function and Stability of Bacteriorhodopsin Following Exposure to a Microgravity Environment (Protein-Based Artificial Retina Manufacturing) by LambdaVision uses a microgravity environment to manufacture a protein-based artificial retina technology using layer-by-layer assembly to produce high quality artificial retina thin films. Study of Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (iPSCs) in Microgravity (Production of Stem Cells for Personalized Medicine) examines the effect of microgravity on induced pluripotent stem cells cells and the neural progenitor cells they generate.
Systems:
Ax-3 Departure Preparations: The crew performed various activities to prepare for Ax-3 undock and return planned for tomorrow, February 3rd. These activities included an Emergency Equipment Transfer, a Crew Dragon Tablet Sync, and an Undock Crew Conference.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew performed cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-20 cargo vehicle. NG-20 arrived yesterday, February 1st, and is scheduled to remain on the ISS until July when it will be unberthed for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. Due to its destructive re-entry, Cygnus provides an opportunity to offload some of the unwanted mass onboard the ISS.
