
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #70 – ISS Upgrades II: EV1 Michael Hopkins and EV2 Victor Glover performed a 5 hour 20 minute EVA and completed the following tasks in support of ISS upgrades:

P4 AP Relocate
P4 Li-ION & DCSU Bolts
P4 H-Fixture Removal
CP3 Camera Group R&R
JEMRMS WVE R&R
CP13 HD Camera Installation

The crew also completed five get ahead tasks:

Starboard Truss (S4) H-Fixture Removal
Worksite Interface Extender (WIFEX) & Articulating Portable Foot Restraint (APFR) Relocation
Airlock On-Orbit Installable WIF (OIWIF) Relocation
Airlock Thermal Cover Magnetic Plate R&R
Imagery of Mini Pump Module worksite area

Payloads
Antimicrobial Coatings (Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings): The crew touched coupons A-G (uncoated), then touched H-N (coated), then took photos of each of the coupons. The experiment was set up in early January and is planned to remain deployed for a period of 6 months. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
ESA-EPO Videos: A crewmember recorded an EPO video message about the contribution of women in space. The video will feature Paxi, ESA’s mascot for young children. The activities related to European Space Agency-Education Payload Operations Generic Videos are intended to encourage and strengthen the teaching of science curriculum, and stimulate the curiosity of students to motivate them towards further study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects.
Veg-03: The crew performed a check and watering of the VEG-03J plants Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. But future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03 uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate Extra Dwarf Pak Choi, Amara Mustard and Red Romaine Lettuce using Seed Film which are harvested on-orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing.
Systems
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance: FE-13 inspected the X-rotation dashpots, cycled the main arm through full range of motion and greased the Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (VIS) rails and rollers. She also tightened and torqued set screws within the ARED cylinder flywheels and main arm fasteners. These tasks are scheduled every 90 days to maintain optimal functionality of the device.
Columbus European Payload Module (EPM) Seat Track Inspection: FE-13 measured and took photos of the EPM seat track. This activity was to check where the future payload, Payload Data Router (PLDR) can be installed on the EPM.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: The MSS remained Operational overnight, thus, Robotics Ground Controllers only had to power up the MSS cameras in preparation for today’s EVA. The EV crew egressed the Airlock and went to the P4 worksite. When this first task was complete, EV2 set up the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) with the Articulated Portable Foot Restraint (APFR) and ingressed the APFR. The SSRMS was maneuvered successively to the CP3 and the CP13 worksites by IV Crew. After completing the CP3 and CP13 tasks, the SSRMS was maneuvered to the Crew egress position. EV2 egressed and then removed the APFR from the SSRMS. MSS operations were nominal.

