ISS On-Orbit Status 02/08/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.        
 
 FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Before sleeptime, Dmitri will inspect the filters again, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 FE-1 Kaleri terminated the overnight (10-hr) charging of the Kelvin-Video battery for the Russian KPT-2 payload with its BAR science instruments suite (other BAR components being the ТТМ-2 Anemometer-Thermometer, the Piren-B instrument, the charger cable, and the video display unit).
 
 Afterwards, Kaleri spent another 1h30m on stowing disposal hardware in the cargo ship-turned-trash can Progress M-07M/39P (#407), docked at SM (Service Module) Aft, bar-coding stowage updates in the IMS (Inventory Management System) database.
 
 Later, Alex checked out the newly assembled Russian GFI-17 “Molniya” FOTON-GAMMA experiment, delivered on Progress 40P for external installation during EVA-28.      [GFI-17 “Molniya GAMMA” investigates atmospheric gamma-ray bursts and optical radiation in conditions of thunderstorm activity.]
 
 FE-2 Skripochka &amp; FE-4 Kondratyev had another 3 hrs for a joint review of EVA-28 procedures and timeline.      [On 2/16, hatch opening is scheduled at ~8:15am EST, hatch closing at ~2:23pm, for a total spacewalk duration of 6h 8min.  EVA-28 objectives are: Installation, connection &amp; deployment of the RK-21-8 radiometric system on the URM-D platform on Plane II of SM RO/l.d. (Work Compartment, large diameter); installation &amp; connection of “MOLNIYA-GAMMA” monoblock on URM-D on Plane IV of SM RO/l.d.; removal of “YAKOR” foot restraint (“Ferrozond”) on SM RO/l.d.; removal of “KOMPLAST” panels #2 &amp; #10 on FGB; and deployment of the ARISSat “RADIOSKAF-2” nano-satellite.  Two items will be jettisoned; three other items (Molniya MLI and cover) will be brought back inside.
 
 Later, Oleg &amp; Dmitri spent more time on preparing Orlan-MK spacesuit replaceable elements, service equipment and personal gear, supported by ground specialist tagup via S-band.
 
 FE-6 Coleman performed checkouts on the three PGTs (Pistol Grip Tools) for the ULF5 spacewalks.    [Battery and functionality checks were conducted on PGT #1001 (EV1), PGT #1004 (EV2) and PGT #1006 (spare).]
 
 CDR Kelly terminated REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly) battery charging, then returned REBA #1009 to the RS (Russian Segment) tool gather bag.
 
 FE-5 Nespoli configured a REBA (#1012) with the usual pull tab extension.     [The pull tab extension, jerry-rigged with Kapton tape, scissors and tape measure, allows the REBA to be activated once it is installed in the Orlan (for which it originally was not designed)].
 
 Afterwards, Nespoli went about gathering US tools required on the RS EVA-28.
 
 In the US Airlock, CDR Kelly installed EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) batteries #2089 &amp; #2090 in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly) and started the computer-controlled charge-discharge-recharge maintenance process.
 
 Kelly also undertook a session with the U.S. PFE (Periodic Fitness Evaluation) protocol as subject, a monthly 1.5-hr. procedure which checks up on BP (blood pressure) &amp; ECG (electrocardiogram) during programmed exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer in the US Lab.  Readings were taken with the BP/ECG equipment and the HRM (heart rate monitor) watch with its radio transmitter.  Paolo Nespoli assisted as Operator/CMO.     [BP/ECG provides automated noninvasive systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements while also monitoring and displaying accurate heart rates on a continual basis at rest and during exercise.] 
 
 After setting up the video equipment in the Lab for a live view of his activities, Kelly serviced the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) to support continuation of CIR MDCA (Multi-user Drop Combustion Apparatus) test point activities.       [Scott first opened the FCF (Fluids &amp; Combustion Facility) upper door, replaced a manifold bottle on one of four manifolds in front of the Optics Bench (#2004, with 100% CO<sub>2</sub> under 280 psia pressure) with another bottle (#2005, with 100% CO<sub>2</sub>), then placed the GIP valve lever in down (vent) position), closed the manifold bottle valves and relieved pressure on all four CIR manifolds to prepare for FOMA (Fuel/Oxidizer Management Assembly) calibration, then closing the FCF upper rack door, turning on two switches, and notifying POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center) that the rack was prepared for command on RPC (Remote Power Controller).  After the ground-commanded calibration, Scott opened valves on all installed CIR Manifold Bottles to prepare for test points after FOMA calibration, gathered items from stowage for CIR activities and reviewed procedures for the upcoming operations.] 
 
 Nespoli meanwhile reviewed detailed procedures for an upcoming task to replace a window in the CIR Combustion Chamber.     [It appears that this window is dirty enough to affect the quality of planned science images taken with the CIR LLL-UV (Low Light Level-Ultraviolet) imaging package.]
 
 In Node-3, Cady Coleman worked several hours on the AR OGS (Atmosphere Revitalization / Oxygen Generation System) to collect recirculation loop samples for subsequent analysis for pH value (which has been of concern for some time).      [For the extensive task, Cady first rotated the OGA (Oxygen Generator Assembly) rack at loc. A5 down to gain access for sampling adapter installation, then collected samples and later removed the adapter and rotated the rack up to restore its regular position.  Cady &amp; Scott then used the Fluid Conductivity Meter to analyze the samples for conductivity for its subsequent correlation to pH value.]
 
 Later, FE-6 performed extended maintenance on the EHS CSA-CP (Environmental Health System / Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units, changing out the battery in all units (prime &amp; backup) and then zero-calibrating them (to re-establish the “zero value” measurement point).
 
 In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Cady supported the BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) payload by fixing/focusing the automated D2Xs camera on a clear sample (#9) and resetting the Intervalometer of the camera to 8 hrs (number of intervals: 63), then starting automated photography.     [The checkup includes image transfer, camera battery and camera/flash position.  It is scheduled daily starting at Initiation+1 day during automated photography.] 
 
 FE-4 Kondratyev performed a verification check on the overnight automated IUS anti-virus scans on the Russian VKS auxiliary laptops.
 
 Continuing the current round of monthly preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, Dmitri replaced the PF1-4 dust filter cartridges in the SM, discarding the removed units as trash and updating the IMS.
 
 FE-5 continued HTV2 (H-II Transfer Vehicle 2) cargo ops, unloading equipment and also replacing it with excessed hardware and trash for disposal.  Later, Paolo tagged up with ground specialists (~1:55pm EST) for the regular HTV cargo transfer debrief.
 
 After last Friday’s (2/4) cable outfitting operation in the SM for the new Russian Microwave Radiometry experiment DZZ-9, including preparing connections for the BITS2-12 TMI onboard telemetry measurement system, FE-1 Kaleri today conducted VHF (very high frequency) test measurements and mated the BITS2-12 TMI connector.  After tagup with ground specialists, the worksite was cleaned up and closed out.     [DZZ-9 investigates underlying surface, ocean and atmosphere characteristics by microwave radiometry.]
 
 With BITS2-12 reactivated, Alex then supported the ground-commanded reactivation of the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator by monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.     [Elektron was turned off by the ground for the DZZ-9 outfitting.  The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H<sub>2</sub>) in the O<sub>2</sub> line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.]
 
 In the SA/Descent Module of Soyuz TMA-01M/24S (#701, docked at MRM2), Kaleri installed new Neptun software in the Neptun-ME crew console (PKSA) and InPU-1 Integrated Control Panel from RS1 laptop, then conducted checkout tests of the new software load and of the connections of the four M4294M Microamperemeter assemblies which he installed on 2/2 at instrument panel locations.  Ground specialist tagup provided support.  Documentary photography was then taken and downlinked for a tagup with ground specialists.     [The new Microammeter installation in 24S provides the backup capability to monitor the control of the vehicle during descent.] 
 
 Oleg used the standard ECOSFERA equipment, set up on 1/31, to inspect and evaluate the samples collected earlier for the MedOps SZM-MO-21 microbial experiment in Media 2 Petri dishes for cultivation.      [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger and power supply unit, provides samples to help determine microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.]
 
 After setting up the VCA2 (Video Camera Assembly 2) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) facing the HRF1 (Human Research Facility 1) for real-time monitoring, Scott Kelly performed Part 2 of troubleshooting the failed USND (Ultrasound) hardware, involving configuring WS2 (Workstation 2) and then power cycling the hardware with the switch on the front panel.
 
 Alex Kaleri completed the regular weekly maintenance of the TVIS.    [This is primarily an inspection of the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices) in contingency configuration, SLD cables for fraying and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time &amp; date values.]
 
 Sasha also handled the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Dmitri conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 FE-1, FE-2, FE-4 &amp; FE-5 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Paolo at ~7:45am, Oleg at ~9:00am, Dmitri at ~9:40am, Alex at ~11:40am EST.
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).
 
 Reboost:   A one-burn reboost of ISS will be performed tomorrow afternoon at 4:37pm EST using the Progress 39P DPO rendezvous &amp; docking thrusters.  Burn duration will be 4 min 12 sec; delta-V: 0.5 m/s (3.0 ft/s); expected mean altitude increase: 0.9 km (0.5 nmi).  The purpose of the reboost is to set up orbit phasing for STS-133/ULF5 and Soyuz 26S.
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uploaded for today were Mt. Kilimanjaro, Tanzania (ISS had a mid-morning pass in fair weather to acquire detailed, near-nadir views of this most-famous of African mountains.  Although some clouds may have been present along the lower flanks, the peak of Kilimanjaro should have been clear.  Of particular interest are the small glaciers located at the summit.  These glaciers have been receding dramatically and have been predicted to disappear completely by 2020.  CEO imagery of the summit will help document changes in the extent of the glaciers and snow cover), Niamey, Niger (it is the height of the dry season in the Sahel region of Africa and with the possible exception of some smoke and dust, the crew had a clear, nadir pass for this capital city target.  It was mid-morning light as ISS tracked southeastward with the low-water Niger River directly below.  Most of this city of three-quarters of million is located on the northeast bank of the river), and Santa Maria Volcano, Guatemala (Santa Maria is one of numerous volcanoes to be found in the western ranges of Central America.  As ISS tracked southwestward, just inland from the Pacific coast, the crew may have noticed most of them as clear weather is expected.  This high, symmetrical stratovolcano has a large crater on its southwestern flank that was caused by a catastrophic eruption in 1902.  Avalanches and ash plumes have characterized the most recent activity at Santa Maria.  Looking near nadir to acquire overlapping mapping frames of the volcano, especially the large crater and lava dome complex on the southwestern flank.
 
 
