
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (JSSOD) Operations: Wilmore coordinated with ground teams using the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) to return the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) containing the JSSOD to the JEMAL slide table.  The slide table was retracted, bringing the MPEP inside the JEMAL.  Following the activities, he deactivated the JEMRMS Remote Manipulating System (RMS) Laptop (RLT) and powered off the RMS monitors.
JAXA Image Processing Unit (IPU):  Cristoforetti performed the procedure to exchange the Video Recording Unit (VRU) disk within the IPU. This task removed a disk drive filled with data generated from the Dynamic Surf Marangoni experiment and replaced it with a fresh recording unit.
Robonaut:  Wilmore powered up Robonaut in its stowed configuration in order for ground teams to update/initialize a joint position sensor, one of two joint position sensors in the right elbow.  Once set in the proper position, the sensor is expected to function nominally.  After the updates were confirmed by ground teams, Wilmore powered down Robonaut.  The data will be included in a minor software release to prepare for the next planned Robonaut observations later this month. 
Cold Stowage Preparation:  Wilmore and Virts transferred samples from Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) to the Polar and General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) units returning on SpaceX-5.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub:  Virts configured EMU Suits 3003 and 3005 for loop scrubbing and initiated the scrub. Cristoforetti performed ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and conducted biocidal maintenance (iodination) on both the suits and Airlock cooling water loops.  Samples containing 250 mL of the water were obtained after the loop scrub activity to determine the effectiveness of the filtering.  10 mL of this water sample was used for a conductivity test and the remaining water will be sent to the ground for chemical analysis.
SpaceX-5 Dragon Cargo Loading:  Cristoforetti continued loading cargo into Dragon.  As of yesterday afternoon, the crew had completed over 92% of the total Dragon cargo operations. An estimated 6 hours and 45 minutes is required to complete the remainder of cargo loading.  Hatch closure is scheduled to occur on Monday, February 9th with unberth and splashdown occurring the following day.     
Sabatier Laminar Flow Element (LFE) Rod Removal:  Wilmore and Cristoforetti removed the LFE Rod from the Sabatier System.  Sabatier has produced very little water since the compressor was replaced in December 2014.  The maximum flow through the LFE has been decreasing, which is indicative of blockage. The removal of the LFE Rod is expected to alleviate the flow problem. Sabatier uses a catalyst that reacts with carbon dioxide and hydrogen, both byproducts of current life-support systems onboard the ISS in order to produce water and methane.    Following the maintenance, a leak check was completed which verified a good seal.  Activation of Sabatier is pending review next week.
Commercial Orbital Transport Services (COTS) UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Checkout:  In preparation for the upcoming SpaceX-5 unberth, Virts worked with ground teams to activate the CUCU System and performed a Crew Command Panel (CCP) checkout. CUCU provides a command and telemetry communications link between ISS and Dragon during free flight operations in the vicinity of ISS.  
Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Replacement – The crew completed the AED replacement today with a new unit that arrived on SpaceX 5. Additionally, the crew performed a status check of all of the batteries as well as an overall inspection of the new AED.

