
Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) Adapter Transfer: Overnight ground controllers maneuvered the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Robotic Manipulator System (RMS) Small Fine Arm (SFA) to a position to remove the EFU Adapter from the EFU-5 location.  Once the EFU Adapter was removed, it was transferred and installed onto the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table. The slide table, with the EFU adapter, was then retracted back into the JEMAL.  These activities are part of a series of tasks required to deploy the High Definition Television Camera – Exposed Facility 2 (HDTV-EF2) experiment next week. HDTV-EF2 is a high-definition television camera system, which will be used for earth observation from the ISS.  
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Halo: The crew completed the second of two days of initial checkout and runs in support of the SPHERES Halo investigation. The crew loaded the SPHERES and the Vertigo Avionics Stack and performed tests of the Halo configuration.  Sponsored by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), SPHERES Halo utilizes the SPHERES facility (satellites) and is designed to mature adaptive Guidance, Navigation and Control (GNC) technology in support of on-orbit, robotic satellite assembly and servicing in a risk-tolerant, dynamically authentic environment. The Halo has six Halo ports and is able to support up to six peripherals, including docking ports, cameras, and other sensors and actuators. These peripherals can be added and removed from the Halo by the astronaut as necessary for each test. Future use includes the SPHERES Docking Port.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Sample Holder Exchange: The crew performed an exchange of the Sample Holder contained in the JAXA ELF facility housed in the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack-2 (MSPR2).  Following the exchange ground teams will continue checkout activities. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Lighting Effects Cognition Test: Using the Cognition application, the crew completed three runs of the Cognition test.  Scheduled at 1-4 hours after wakeup, 6-10 hours after wakeup, and 12-18 hours after wakeup, the crew completed the Cognition test which includes pre-test questions and an array of cognitive tests with performance feedback. Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. 
SkinSuit: The crew performed Day 2 of the first session of SkinSuit taking measurements at donning in the morning and again in the afternoon at doffing. The Skinsuit is a tailor-made overall with a bi-directional weave specially designed to counteract the lack of gravity by squeezing the body from the shoulders, to the feet, with a similar force to that felt on Earth. The subjects of the investigation perform an evaluation of the efficacy of Skinsuit in reducing/preventing low back pain and preventing spine elongation; measure the gravitational load provided by Skinsuit on the ISS crewmember; evaluate operational considerations, in particular hygiene/microbiology, comfort, thermoregulation, donning/doffing, impingement and range of motion to prepare for Long Duration Missions; and evaluate the effect of wearing Skinsuit while exercising. 

