
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Exposed Facility (EF) High Definition Television (HDTV) Camera Installation: Today, the crew installed the HDTV on the EFU Adapter which was then installed on the JEM Airlock Slide Table. The Slide Table was then retracted into the JEM Airlock, and the JEM Airlock was depressurized and leak checked in preparation for operations to install the HDTV Camera on the JEM EF later this week. This HDTV camera system delivered by HTV-6 will be used for earth observation from the ISS. 
Vascular Echo Ultrasound: The crew successfully completed two ultrasound sessions scanning the neck, areas of the torso, and back of the knee, the in the crew’s morning then again in the afternoon, both while wearing electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes.  In between the sessions, the crew wore leg cuffs. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health, and quality of life for everyone.
Commercial Off the Shelf (COTS) Ultra-High Frequency (UHF) Communication Unit (CUCU) Software Update: Today, the crew updated the spare CUCU software to the latest version. This required the crew to demate cables from the prime CUCU and transfer them to the spare. Once connected, the spare CUCU was updated to the latest software version. The cables were transferred back to the prime CUCU, and the system was put back into a nominal configuration. 
Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Switchover: Today the crew reconfigured the Airlock MTL plumbing from being connected to the Lab ITCS to Node 3 ITCS prior to Node 1 Galley Rack activation.  If cooling to the upcoming Node 1 Galley rack was activated while the Airlock is still plumbed to the Lab, inadequate cooling may be available for payloads being performed in the Lab. Therefore, the Airlock MTL reconfiguration to Node 3 was performed prior to the activation of Node 1 Galley Rack, which is planned later this week. During Galley Rack MTL jumper installation, the keying positions of jumper Quick Disconnects (QDs) did not fit the expected connection QDs. The mismatch in keying prevents the mating of the QDs. Crew has stood down from activity and left the ITCS QDs demated until a forward plan can be discussed.
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Valve Troubleshooting: Lab CDRA Air Selector Valve (ASV) Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) LAD62B-A Remote Power Controller (RPC) 12 has been experiencing seemingly random overcurrent trips since March 2014. On January 31, 2017 the crew installed a new troubleshooting cable that connected to RPC 5 and moved three of the valves to be powered through that cable, with a final configuration of 3 valves on RPC 12 and 3 on RPC 5. On February 6, the Lab CDRA RPCM LAD62B-A RPC 05 tripped indicating that one of the valves on that cable is suspect. Today the crew swapped the cable connection on ASV101 to RPC 12 to continue troubleshooting.  RPC 5 then tripped again. Crew then moved ASV103 to RPC 12 to further isolate the trip and RPC 5 tripped again indicating ASV102 as the likely cause of the trips. Ground teams will meet to discuss further troubleshooting before making any hardware changes.

