
Payloads:
BioNutrients:  A crewmember gathered BioNutrients hardware in preparation for upcoming operations.  BioNutrients demonstrates a technology that enables on-demand production of human nutrients during long-duration space missions. The process uses engineered microbes, like yeast, to generate carotenoids from an edible media to supplement potential vitamin losses from food that is stored for very long periods. Specially designed storage/growth packets are intermittently activated by astronauts over a five-year period, then frozen and returned to Earth for examination.
Concrete Hardening:  The ISS Portable Glovebag was setup and Operations were conducted on Concrete Hardening Kits 11-20.  Material Science on the Solidification of Concrete (Concrete Hardening) investigates how lack of gravity affects the hardening process and resulting properties of concrete.  Different mixtures of cement, water, sand, simulated lunar regolith, and other additives are mixed and left to harden in microgravity.  Analysis of material strength, bubble, and pore distribution, as well as crystal structures in comparison with ground samples, will help in the development of materials for construction of habitats in lunar or planetary exploration.
J-SSOD-20 (JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-20):  A crewmember removed the Launch Lock Covers, installed the Multi Satellite Install Case Multi-Layer Insulation (MLI) Cover, and performed a video tour.  The Light-1 CubeSat focuses on the detection of Terrestrial Gamma-ray Flashes (TGFs) coming from the Earth’s atmosphere.  This feat is achieved by utilizing two detectors that are integrated onboard a compact 3-Unit (3U) satellite bus, proving to be extremely efficient in terms of cost, manufacturing, and assembly time.  Light-1 is deployed as a part of the J-SSOD-20 micro-satellite deployment mission, and launches to the International Space Station aboard the SpaceX-24 Dragon Cargo Vehicle. GT-1 is a 1.14 kg 1U CubeSat with experimental deployable solar panels and a deployable UHF radio antenna. The GT-1 mission demonstrates a rapid cradle-to-grave lifecycle of a university level CubeSat.
SABL (Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory):  The Short Tray and Guide Rails were removed from SABL-1 and re-installed in the configuration needed to support BioNutrients.  The SABL supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28V D/C and 5V D/C power supplies for investigation use.
Veggie PONDS (Passive Orbital Nutrient Delivery System) Validation:  A crewmember lowered both VEGGIE Bellows and performed a check on plant growth.  Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans.  Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food.  Therefore, understanding how plants respond to microgravity and demonstrating the reliable vegetable production on orbit are important steps toward that goal.  Veggie PONDS uses a newly developed passive nutrient delivery system and the Veggie plant growth facility aboard the ISS to cultivate lettuce and mizuna greens which are to be harvested on-orbit, and consumed, with samples returned to Earth for analysis.
Systems: 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Maintenance Operations: Today, the crew completed several tasks to downlink video data files from Russian Segment (RS) EVA # 51 that took place on January 19th.  The crew temporarily installed a Li-Ion Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (LREBA) into the EMUs to power on the High-Definition EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) to downlink the video data.  The batteries were then installed in the Battery Storage Compartment and then charged using the EVA Battery Operations Terminal (EBOT) including newly installed EBOT Charger #3 that was recently flown up on SpX-24.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Recycle Tank Operations: As a maintenance operation to ensure safe water recycling on the station, the crew removed and replaced the UPA Recycle Tank. The UPA produces distillate from a mixture of pretreated urine, urine flush water, and Crew Health Care System wastewater. The distillate can then be processed by the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) to produce iodinated water.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Lumbar Spine Scan: The crew performed routine ultrasound scans today to collect data that will help medical researchers characterize the affects of spaceflight on the spine and how spinal alterations leading to back pain and potential injury can be avoided. Ground based pre- and post-flight Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and high-fidelity ultrasound, combined with in-flight ultrasound are used to characterize and assign a mission health risk to microgravity-associated spinal alterations for back pain and potential injury.
LAB Manual Flow Control Valve (MFCV) Adjustments: To reallocate cooling resources for Lab Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL), the crew performed MFCV Adjustments, decreasing Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) flow through multiple Lab racks. To perform this action, the crew prepared the racks and then rotated them to reach the cooling equipment.
Stowage Management: Today the crew combined efforts to organize and manage stowage in Node 3 by
checking deployed and temporarily stowed items in use, disposing of unneeded common trash, and relocating items as needed.   The crew took photographs of areas where there may be more opportunities for creating more space on the station.

