
Medaka Osteoclast 2:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata activated the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Hub unit and installed the Medaka Chamber in the fluorescent microscope for observation of a Medaka sample over the next seven days.
Preparation for Cube Satellite (CubeSat) Deploys:  Last Friday, January 31st, Wakata experienced an issue installing the NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer Electronics Box onto the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP).  The issue was a result of cross threaded bolts and possibly fasteners. Today, he successfully installed the electronics box in an alternate location on the MPEP.  NanoRacks CubeSats are delivered to the ISS already integrated within NanoRacks CubeSat Deployers (NRCSDs).  A crewmember will operate the JEM Remote Manipulating System (JRMS) to grapple and position the NRCSDs for deployment. The CubeSats are then deployed by commands received from JAXA ground controllers.
Ocular Health (OH) Fundoscope Examination:  As part of Wakata’s Flight Day 90 OH session, he applied drops to his eyes to dilate them.  FE-3 Hopkins then conducted a Fundoscope eye examination of Wakata with remote guidance from ground experts.
Food Warmer Current Limit Change: Ground controllers updated the over current trip limit for the Express Rack 8 power feed to Food Warmer (S/N 1001) from 10 Amps to 15 Amps.  The update was expected to help in preventing over current trips.  However, the Food Warmer tripped again this afternoon after the limit was modified.  Ground teams will continue to develop troubleshooting plans.  Meanwhile, the crew has been instructed to use an alternate degraded Food Warmer in the Lab.
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Troubleshooting: Ground teams have identified an upward trend in the delta pressure across the Node 3 CDRA beds, since they were installed March, 2013.  Also, a cabin air leak into the CDRA is one of the likely causes of water in the Sabatier system.   Today, FE-3 Hopkins performed a troubleshooting activity on the Node 3 CDRA to address both issues. The leak test did not conclusively indicate a leak, but he replaced o-rings on two connectors and tightened two other connectors.  The activity isolated the CDRA bed flow obstruction to the rear adsorbent canister.  It is possible to clean a screen internal to the rear bed in order to clear the blockage. Teams are evaluating the best time for the cleaning activity. The Node 3 CDRA was subsequently reactivated.

