
Mobile Companion (CIMON): Over the weekend, the crew updated software to the CIMON hardware and then performed a Mood test as part of activation and checkout steps. The Pilot Study with the Crew Interactive MObile companioN (Cimon) is a technology demonstration project, and an observational study, that aims to obtain the first insights into the effects on crew support by an artificial intelligence (AI), in terms of efficiency and acceptance during long-term missions in space. Spaceflight missions put the crew under a substantial amount of stress and workload, and it is thought that AI could provide operational support to crew members.
NanoRacks External Cygnus CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD): The crew reviewed procedures for the upcoming CubeSat Deployer installation. The crew also installed the MPEP adapter plate and Capture Mechanism onto the JEM Airlock Slide table. The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer is a stackable, modular, ground loaded launch case.  Each NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer accommodates up to eight launch cases are stacked for each JEM Airlock opening. The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer meets the growing demand to deploy CubeSat format satellites from the International Space Station for a variety of customers.
Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG): The crew stowed the LSG Work Volume. LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crew members can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Bio-Monitor: The crew performed the setup and donning of the Bio-Monitor Hardware garment and data collection unit as part of a 48hr measurement session. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way.  The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, ECG (Electrocardiogram), skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R):  Today, the crew removed and replaced the WHC Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter.  After replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was performed and the WHC was declared operational.
On Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Descent Drill:  In preparation for their departure from the ISS on Wednesday evening, the 59S Crew completed a nominal descent and landing drill earlier this morning.  During this training, the crew was inside their Soyuz spacecraft reviewing and practicing undock and landing procedures.
Cygnus Rendezvous On-Board Training (OBT): In preparation for NG-13 launch currently planned on February 9 and berth on February 11, today the crew completed this proficiency training covering the mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding the Cygnus.

