
Progress 54P Launch and Dock: Today, 54P launched successfully from the Baikonur Cosmodrome at 10:23am CST. After a nominal ascent then performing a four orbit rendezvous, the spacecraft docked automatically to the ISS DC-1 docking port at 4:22pm CST. The Progress is delivering more than 1400 kg of cargo to the ISS.
Microbiome Investigation: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio performed his Flight Day 90 session of the Microbiome investigation, answering survey questions, performing body sample collections, and then placing samples in cold stowage.  The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). Samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment are taken periodically. The study will assess the likelihood and consequences of alterations in the microbiome due to extreme environments and the related human health risks.
Ocular Health (OH) Tonometry Examination:  Mastracchio, as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO), measured FE-6 Wakata’s blood pressure and vital signs and then conduct a vision and tonometry test on him. This is Wakata’s Flight Day 90 session, the fourth of his six planned sessions. The Ocular Health protocol is a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment / intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Blood Pressure Regulation (BP Reg) Experiment:  FE-3 Hopkins set up hardware to support the leg cuff and rebreathing protocol for the Canadian Space Agency BP Reg experiment.  He then performed the experiment protocol on himself.  BPReg tests the efficacy of an in-flight manipulation of arterial blood pressure as an indicator of post-flight response to a brief stand test.  Space flight negatively impacts the regulation of blood pressure on return to an upright posture on earth.  This experiment has potential application for the general population, where dizziness and fainting (syncope) are major health problems and are especially important for elderly, where falling is a major contributor to bone fracture.  A better understanding of the mechanisms responsible for fainting could reduce the risk of injury.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Imaging Filter Replacement:  FE-6 Wakata translated the Fluids and Combustion Facility (FCF) CIR out and replace a filter in the CIR High Bit-Depth Multi-Spectral (HiBMS) Imaging Package then translated the CIR back to its former position.
Material Science Laboratory (MSL) Solidification and Quench Furnace (SQF) Sample Cartridge Exchange:  Mastracchio removed a used sample cartridge from the SQF and replaced it with Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions  (MICAST)2 test sample 11. This investigation aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. The patterns of the crystals resulting from transitions of liquids to solids is of substantial importance to processes in producing materials such as solar cells, thermoelectrics, and metal alloys.
JEM Return Air Grille Cleaning: Mastracchio removed the JEM mesh covers from air grilles and performed routine cleaning. The vents cleaned were located at JPM1FD7, JPM1FD8, JPM1AD7 and JPM1AD8.  Wakata photographed each of the four vents then downlinked the images for ground specialist to analyze.

