
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom 3:
Outreach, Commercial, and Payload Activities:
The Ax-3 crew continues to wait for an undock opportunity. Throughout the day, they have recorded several outreach events and taken outreach and payload imagery. The crew have completed additional work on their National Lab-sponsored payloads ISOC and Ready Pasta. Alongside these payload activities, Marcus Wandt performed activities for multiple ESA-sponsored science investigations including Bone Health, Orbital Architecture, Sleep in Orbit, and Thor-Davis.
Payloads:
Bone Health (Ax-3): The Ax-3 crew donned the Actibelt experiment hardware and performed a data collection session. The Assessment of Bone Turn-over and Bone Morphology – Is There a Post Re-entry Bone Loss in Short-duration Mission Crew Members? (Bone Health) investigation studies the existence, or non-existence, of protracted bone loss after short-duration spaceflight (up to two months). While such protracted bone loss is well established in experimental bed-rest studies (a ground-based analog of microgravity), such losses could not be found after long-term spaceflight. To assess the underlying effects, both radiological as well as biochemical methods of studying bone loss are used.
Circadian Light: The crew performed a Circadian Light end-of-day assessment. The Circadian Light investigation tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Flawless Space Fibers: The crew began the hardware installation into the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) but were not able to complete all the activity. The remaining activities will be replanned. Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consist of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3 and 20% NaF. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
Immunity Assay: Samples were removed from Kubik, processed, and analyzed. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test. This was day two of the multi-day science session. 
Italian Space Surveillance and Tracking (SST) Operations Center (ISOC) (Ax-3): Data was input into the ISOC software to allow it to calculate orbital debris probabilities and record space weather events. ISOC (Ax-3) evaluates a web-based space situational awareness (SSA) tool on the ISS. The investigation assesses the tool’s ability to conduct autonomous analysis of the risk of collision between a satellite and another object in orbit and compares space weather alerts with the actual experience of crewmembers. 
Microgravity Associated Bone Loss-A (MABL-A): The crew performed the MABL-A Media Exchange activities and sample collections. MABL-A assesses the effects of microgravity on bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), specifically their capacity to secrete bone-forming and bone-dissolving cytokines (small secreted proteins that affect other cells). MSCs produce bone-forming cells and are known to play a role in making and repairing skeletal tissues. Results could provide a better understanding of the basic molecular mechanisms of bone loss caused by spaceflight and normal aging on Earth.
Orbital Architecture (Ax-3): The Ax-3 crew filled out an Orbital Architecture questionnaire using the EveryWear app and performed cognitive assessment tests. These questionnaires are designed to assess the crew’s perceived sleep quality and stress levels. The space habitats that current and future astronauts live in can influence their mental performance and their stress. This investigation studies how architectural properties influence mental capacities and stress and will try to inform the design of future space habitats using evidence-based tests.
Ready Pasta (Ax-3): A Ready Pasta meal was heated and consumed, and a questionnaire was filled out. Ready Pasta Heat & Taste in Microgravity on the Ax-3 PAM tests a shelf-stable cooked pasta, Barilla Rotini Ready Pasta. Crew members taste and evaluate the pasta using a questionnaire developed by Barilla experts.
Rhodium Crystal Preservation-02 (RHCP-02): The crew completed the RHCP-02 Science Chambers Transfers during today’s activities. Advancing A Novel Crystal Preservation Method for Biological Materials (Rhodium Crystal Preservation 02) studies an enhanced crystal formation technique to preserve biological material for research. Preservation of such materials outside of standard laboratory settings can be challenging. Crystallizing a material may provide a way to maintain its structure for future analysis without special conditions such as cold stowage.
Space Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter (SpaceTED): The Secure Digital card was removed from SpaceTED, and the data was downlinked. The fan air inlet was also cleaned. Exposure to space radiation can introduce hazards to crew member health and the function of equipment in space. Building on a previous space station study, SpaceTED aims to develop a device to collect data on crew radiation exposure and characterize the space radiation environment. This low-cost, portable device may be able to better assess radiation risks and help protect crew members and systems on long-term missions.
Thor-Davis (Ax-3): The Ax-3 crew observed and recorded a thunderstorm from the Cupola. The Thor-Davis investigation aims to provide a better understanding about the impact of thunderstorms on the Earth‘s atmosphere and climate by observing them at stratospheric altitudes from the ISS. Thor-Davis evaluates a neuromorphic camera (or event camera), that can observe thunderstorms and their electrical activity at up to 100,000 frames per second. The overall goal is to better understand, under realistic conditions, the use of such a camera for future use in space for observing processes in severe electrical storms and other applications.
Systems:
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Exercise Instrumentation Box (EIB) Installation: The crew uninstalled the ARED Instrumentation Box (AIB) and installed the EIB. Following installation of the EIB during Expedition 69 to streamline data recording and enhance crew interaction with ARED, the crew noticed extraneous data readings while using ARED. These readings required swapping back to the AIB until a forward plan for the EIB could be established. The crew reinstalled the EIB today and will record data until February 9th in an attempt to pin down the extraneous data issue.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew performed cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-20 cargo vehicle. NG-20 arrived on February 1st and is scheduled to remain on the ISS until July when it will be unberthed for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. Due to its destructive re-entry, Cygnus provides an opportunity to offload some of the unwanted mass onboard the ISS.
Crew Dragon Tablet Sync: The crew attempted an activity to update the tablet data from the SpaceX virtual private network (VPN) using CloudNet prior to the undock of Ax-3; however, an issue was encountered that will require this update to be rescheduled for tomorrow. These updates are required in order to update the Ax-3 undock forecast weather maps and the upcoming timelines for crew awareness. 
CMS ARED Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation: The crew performed an evacuation of the ARED Cylinder Flywheel. The ARED uses adjustable resistance piston-drivenFiso vacuum cylinders along with a flywheel system to simulate free-weight exercises in normal gravity. Studies have found that without exercises like those possible on the ARED, astronauts could lose up to 15% of their muscle volume, which could be difficult or even impossible to regain back on Earth. ARED’s primary goal is to maintain muscle strength and mass in astronauts during long periods in space.
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion (CSA-CP) Checkout: Today, the crew replaced the battery packs in all CSA-CPs and reset the internal clock and data logger for each monitor. The CSA-CPs will sit for 10-12 days in an open environment for sensor off-gassing. The CSA-CPs provide real-time readings following a combustion event and subsequent clean-up efforts and are also used for continuous monitoring of carbon monoxide levels in the ISS.
