
87 Progress (87P) Launch: Yesterday evening, at 9:25 PM CST, 87P launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome carrying food, fuel, and supplies to the ISS. An automated docking to the ISS SM aft docking port will occur on Saturday, February 17th, at approximately 12:12 AM CST after completing a 34-orbit rendezvous.
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): The crew performed a routine, periodic touching of two of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems, as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space for approximately six months before returning to Earth for analysis.
Advanced Plant Experiment-10 (APEX-10): The crew took photos of the tomato seedlings growing in twenty of the APEX-10 petri plates. Plant and microbial associations are key to the success of individual plants, but scientists do not yet understand how the space environment may alter these associations. Plant-Microbe Interactions in Space (APEX-10) tests whether the beneficial microbe Trichoderma harzianum confers increased stress resilience and improved growth to seedlings of tomato plants (Lycopersicum esculentum) when the two are grown together in microgravity.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: Following a successful fiber pull yesterday, the processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the series to be processed. Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consists of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3, and 20% NaF. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with B. Russell High School in Rome, Italy. Some of the questions asked by the students included how Artificial Intelligence (AI) will affect the lives and research conducted by the astronauts, how the crew handles a fire in space, and how the crew deals with long-term physiological changes due to living in space. Since the earliest ISS expeditions, the ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the crew living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crewmembers 10 to 20 questions.
Microgravity Associated Bone Loss-A (MABL-A): The crew performed sampling and termination activities on the BioCells in habitats A and B. MABL-A assesses the effects of microgravity on bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), specifically their capacity to secrete bone forming and bone dissolving cytokines (small secreted proteins that affect other cells). MSCs produce bone-forming cells and are known to play a role in making and repairing skeletal tissues. Results could provide a better understanding of the basic molecular mechanisms of bone loss caused by spaceflight and normal aging on Earth.
Systems:
FGB Equipment Handover: As a part of the US-RS partnership, the USOS crew accepted hardware from the RS crew to be returned on SpX-30, a Cargo Dragon planned to arrive at the ISS in March for a month long mission. The item handed over was an Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Pump Panel, and it is currently being stowed in the PMM Endcone until it can be transferred to SpX-30 for return. The ITCS provides equipment cooling and heat rejection through a combination of water loops and interface heat exchangers.
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit (FMK) Stow Operation: After the crew completed the setup and activation activity for the FMKs on February 13th, the FMKs were left to collect their sample in LAB and SM. Today, the crew took down the used FMKs by applying stickers to stop the monitoring process and properly stowed them in a bag for return. Once the FMKs are returned to the ground, the kits will be used for post-flight analysis of on-orbit formaldehyde levels.
