
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: Four Actiwatch Plus devices were connected to the HRF Payload Drawer on HRF Rack 1. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Airborne Particulate Monitor: Airborne Particulate Monitor hardware was checked, and a status was provided to the ground. Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. The Airborne Particulate Monitor demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): CBEF Odor Large Filter was attached to the CBEF-L. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility; it is an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The EarthKAM software was shut down and the hardware was stowed. Not everyone can go to space, but everyone can see Earth from an astronaut’s perspective with the EarthKAM program. Thousands of students can remotely control a digital camera mounted on the ISS, and use it to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges and other interesting features and phenomena. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the Internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view Earth from a unique vantage point.
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance (GRASP): GRASP Free Floating configuration science sessions were completed. The purpose of the GRASP investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL): The MSL Fabrication of Amorphous Metals in Space-C1 (FAMIS-C1) sample cartridge was removed and the Growth of Ternary Compound Semiconductor-C3 (GTCS-C3) sample cartridge was re-installed and prepared to be processed. The MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. The MSL can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules. In this way many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
Veg-05: The plants growing in the two Veggie facilities were inspected, watered as needed, and photographed. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
Cupola Scratch Pane R&R: The crew removed the existing bump shield on Cupola Window 2 and cleaned the inboard surface of the Cupola Primary Pressure Pane. A new Acrylic Scratch Pane was then installed on Cupola Window 2. The Cupola consists of seven windows and provides an observation and work area for the ISS crew, giving visibility support the control of the ISS remote manipulator system and general viewing of Earth, celestial objects, and visiting vehicles. 
Countermeasures System (CMS) Portable Pulmonary Function System (P-PFS) Installation and Checkout:An upgraded P-PFS was installed and set up on the Cycle Ergometer w/Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS), including power, data, gas cylinders, and Mixing Bag System setup. The P-PFS was powered on and the crew performed operational phases of Max CEVIS, including video setup, instrument calibration, and initial cleanup in order to check out the system. The P-PFS in conjunction with Max CEVIS satisfies ISS medical requirements to measure crew heart rate, electrocardiogram, and oxygen consumption.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tasks: Today the crew installed the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) battery adapter and performed a checkout of the SAFERs in preparation for EVAs. Essentially a “life jacket” for spacewalks, SAFER is a self-contained maneuvering unit that is worn like a backpack. The system relies on small jet thrusters to let an astronaut move around in space. The crew also cleaned the EVA helmets and terminated EVA battery cycling.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The crew set up the recycle tank to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations
