
Transition to (X2) R15 Software:  As part of the R15 software transition, two of the three Command and Control (C&C) Multiplexer/Demultiplexers (MDMs) were transitioned to updated software today. Updates to the C&C MDMs include: 

Visiting Vehicle Support
Implement modified capability for loading patches
Modification to Rapid Depress Auto-Response
Dual Integrated Communications Unit (ICU) Capability
Increase number of Telemetry Format Versions to meet VV Requirements
Improvements to Longeron Shadowing Fault Detection, Isolation and Recovery (FDIR) response

Following the C&C transition to CCS R5 the crew replaced the Portable Computer System (PCS) hard drives with new ones. 
Tissue Regeneration-Bone Defect Rodent Research-4 (RR-4) Preparations: The crew continued with RR-4 preparation activities prior to SpaceX-10 (SpX-10) planned arrival on Monday, February 20. This morning the crew completed the habitat installation activities, installing Habitats C and D. Telemetry and video were received from both Habitats. The crew also configured the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Life Science Ancillary Hardware (LSAH) for RR-4 operations. The LSAH provides ability to decontaminate the MSG work volume after execution of any experiment with biological hazards. Both the RR-4 and Microgravity Expanded Stem Cells (MESC) payloads will have their own LSAH configurations within the MSG.
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) Logistics Installation: The crew completed the RFID Logistics installation this morning, configuring antennas in Node 1. This afternoon, they configured the RFID Logistics Readers and Antennas in the Lab. After each installation, the crew photographed the configuration and downlinked for ground team evaluation. The RFID Logisitics experiment aims to utilize RFID enabled tags on hardware throughout the ISS, and assist in the tracking of the hardware as it is moved around the station. 
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Universal Docking Port (UDP): The crew performed the second in a series of test runs for the SPHERES UDP payload. They then loaded the test software and performed the session with ground support staff direction. The objectives of the UDP session are to demonstrate a reliably successful docking through running multiple, repeatable docking maneuvers using both global metrology and docking port cameras; perform joint maneuvers of docked satellites using the thrusters from two satellites to demonstrate controllability; and test an algorithm for docking to a satellite which is tumbling in a slow, known manner. The addition of the Docking Ports is a critical upgrade to the SPHERES facility aboard the ISS. With the new ability to dock and undock, SPHERES provides a test bed to address many of the challenges of combining autonomous spacecraft. Mated spacecraft can assemble complex systems in orbit or combine sensors and actuators for satellite servicing and repurposing missions. The SPHERES-UDP enables testing of complex tasks through optimal and adaptive control, autonomous decision-making processes, and real-time image processing.

