
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Installation: Wilmore installed two sets of NRCSD-Quad units onto the Multipurpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) which is attached to the slide table in the JEM Airlock (JEMAL).  Video and electronic still photos of installation operations were downlinked.  The planned jettison of the16 cubesats are scheduled to begin 27 February.  
Electro-Magnetic Levitator (EML):  Cristoforetti is continuing with tasks to support the on-orbit Functional Checkout Experiment (FCE) to better characterize the sample positioning capabilities of the facility’s electromagnetic field and to optimize the EML facility parameters settings in preparation of the EML science ops.  Today she changed the mode of the High Speed Camera to change the magnification factor, and configured gas valves.  She was unable to complete a software reload on the European Physiology Module (EPM) laptop which was scheduled later in the crew day due to complications encountered. Ground teams will be developing a forward plan and rescheduling the activity for another day.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  The crew continues to prepare for upcoming EVAs. Today, they utilized the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Caution & Warning System (ECWS) Onboard Trainer to review related operations and practice EVA cuff checklist procedures.  They also assembled and operated the Virtual Reality Trainer to refamiliarize themselves with Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) operations.  In addition to training, they recharged and checked out EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) powered hardware, inspected SAFER units, and prepared EVA cameras.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fault:  UPA experienced a high pressure transient fault yesterday afternoon.  Flight Controllers downlinked supplementary telemetry then restarted the system.  However, the system faulted out again soon after with the same anomalous signature.  The systems remains in standby mode while ground teams develop a forward plan.  This morning, the crew was instructed to reconfigure the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) to internal tank (EDV).

