
Payloads:
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): Following the 2-day incubation period, the xPWD water sample was assessed for Coliform contamination. An on-orbit PWD, launched in fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. A new system, the xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the ISS crew. 
Flawless Space Fibers-1: Following a very successful fiber pull yesterday, the processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the series to be processed. Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consists of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3 and 20% NaF. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
Microgravity Associated Bone Loss-A (MABL-A): The crew performed sampling and termination activities on the BioCells in habitats C and D, concluding the MABL-A science session. MABL-A assesses the effects of microgravity on bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), specifically their capacity to secrete bone forming and bone dissolving cytokines (small, secreted proteins that affect other cells). MSCs produce bone-forming cells and are known to play a role in making and repairing skeletal tissues. Results could provide a better understanding of the basic molecular mechanisms of bone loss caused by spaceflight and normal aging on Earth.
RadMap Ethernet Disconnect: The Ethernet cable was disconnected from RadMap to allow the system to connect to Wi-Fi for troubleshooting purposes. Understanding and overcoming the human risks from space radiation is one of the major challenges facing future space exploration. The Validating New Radiation-Sensing Technologies (RadMap Telescope) demonstrates new radiation-sensing technologies for applications in autonomous and crewed spacecraft. These technologies, which have just become sufficiently mature for large-scale applications, enable compact yet highly capable radiation monitors. This will allow future spacecraft to benefit from increased measurement capabilities with fewer sensors.
TangoLab Cube Exchange: The crew gained access to the TangoLab facility, removed the cube containing the Compartment Cartilage Tissue Construct experiment, and installed cube QUST_NXT02. Space Tango’s TangoLab locker is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS.
Systems:
Mobile Transporter (MT) Translation & Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Walkoff: Yesterday, after the team translated the MT from Worksite 4 (WS4) to WS6, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and commanded the SSRMS to walkoff from the Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) to the LAB PDGF. Once the Node 2 PDGF was released, the SSRMS was maneuvered to a park position and is now ready to start NRAL operations next week. 
Power String & Antenna Status of ISS Wireless Instrumentation System (IWIS) in PrK: With the PrK hatch open for RS operations, the crew analyzed the state of the RS IWIS Remote Sensor Unit (RSU) 1026 power string and antenna. At the end of last week, IWIS RSU 1026 was reported as faulty; however, with the PrK hatch closed, the crew was unable to check on its status. IWIS is a Structure and Mechanisms (S&M) instrument used to measure ISS vibrations. 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Checkout Part 2: As a follow-up to Part 1 on February 6th, the crew performed visual and functional inspections of the CSA-CP on the ISS. The goal of this activity was to check out newly resupplied CSA-CPs for sensor contamination and zero calibrate each monitor. However, the zero calibrations were not completed today and will be replanned as they need additional time to off-gas. CSA-CPs are used during off-nominal and contingency scenarios to measure CO, Hydrogen Cyanide (HCN), Hydrogen Chloride (HCI), and O2 using electrochemical sensors.
