
Cube Satellite (CubeSat) Operations:  Four CubeSats were successfully launched by JAXA Robotic Flight Controllers from NanoRacks CubSat Deployer (NRCSD) locations 4 and 5 on Saturday, February 15th. The commands to launch the CubeSats from these locations needed to be sent several times in order for the deployer doors to open.  Previous attempts last week to launch from these locations were unsuccessful. This concludes the successful deployment of all 16 Dove CubeSats and paves the way for the deployment of 16 more satellites in the weeks to come.
Preparation for Cygnus Unberth and Release: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins, FE-5 Mastracchio and FE-6 Wakata configured Cygnus and Node 2 vestibule today in preparation for unberth scheduled tomorrow, February 18th. The Cygnus hatch was closed this morning followed by the removal of power, data, and air revitalization system (ARS) jumpers.  The crew then installed the Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Center Disk Cover and four CBM Controller Panel Assemblies (CPAs) onto an Active CBM bulkhead. Photographs and a subsequent crew inspection of CPA cables verified a good configuration and cable integrity to support tomorrow’s unberth.  Cygnus is currently being powered though its Power Video Grapple Fixtures (PVGF) by the SSRMS and the Proximity (PROX/PLS) link was successfully checked out.
Unberth tomorrow is scheduled to start at 4:10 am CST and target release time is 5:40 am CST.  After the departure burn, Cygnus will phase above and behind ISS and conduct several Detailed Test Objectives to characterize spacecraft performance during free-flyer operations.  Several burns to set up for destructive re-entry will take place on Wednesday, February 19th, with the final re-entry burn planned for 11:46 am CST.
JAXA 4K Camera Shooting:  On Saturday, February 15th, Wakata captured video images of auroras, Sochi, Tokyo, and Yokohama.  4K Camera shooting is one of JAXA’s educational activities that attract public attention concerning Japanese manned space flight activities.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Smartphone Test:   On Saturday, February 15th, Hopkins set up cameras and hardware and conducted a test to demonstrate telerobotic operations using SPHERES and smartphone technology.  The first part of the session was to check out the system. The second part was to demonstrate the capability to have SPHERES and an attached smartphone follow a human face as it moved.  This investigation is used to assess the capability of consumer electronics to perform vision-based navigation and reduce risk in technology development for a robotic free-flyer. The face following portion of the test will be used to support development of a capability to film videos without the requirement to have a separate crewmember man a camera.
Body Measures Investigation: Today Hopkins, with operator assistance from Mastracchio, set up cameras and performed body marker instrumentation, then collected calibration and body pose photos, neutral body posture video and circumference measurements. This is Hopkins’ Return minus 30 (R-30) flight day session and his last of 6 sessions.  The goal of this study is to gather data to better understand the magnitude and variability of changes due to microgravity and fluid shifts within the human body during long-duration space flight.  Results of the investigation may result in changes to space suit fit and sizing, workstation design, etc. for future missions to maximize performance, prevent injury, and reduce crew time to accommodate their anthropometrics.

