
SpaceX-5 Dragon Departure:  Today, the crew configured the Dragon/Node-2 vestibule for demate by  disconnecting Air Revitalization System (ARS) jumper, both power and data jumpers, and installed the Center Disk Cover then closed the Node 2 Nadir Hatch.   Later, they depressurized and pressure checked the vestibule.  Dragon was then unberthed from the Node 2 Nadir docking port and released by the crew utilizing the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) at 1:11pm CST.  Later this afternoon, Dragon will perform a deorbit burn at ~5:49pm CST which sets the stage for a splashdown in the Pacific Ocean landing zone at ~6:44pm CST this evening. 
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Configuration:  Virts reconfigured power cables to the   microscope and laptop and performed checks to verify synchronization with ground commanding.   This activity was performed in preparation for the Plant Rotation experiment operations planned for later this week.
Aniso Tubule:  Virts prepared for the Aniso Tubule observations by retrieving a sample from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and set up on the Aquatic Habitat microscope.  The sample observation is started by ground commanding after sample installation and continues over 48 hours.  Experimenters will examine growth modifications of Arabidopsis hypocotyls and the changing orientation of cortical microtubule under microgravity conditions in space. Scientists will further observe changes in dynamics of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins by observing Arabidopsis hypocotyls and microtubule-associated proteins with a fluorescence microscope.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2):  Cristoforetti retrieved all 8 detectors from the deployed location in the US Lab and handed off the units to the Russian crew for processing all detectors in the Bubble Reader.  The Radi-N2 Neutron Field Study (Radi-N2) is a follow on investigation designed to characterize the neutron radiation environment aboard the ISS.  Eight neutron “bubble detectors” produced by the Canadian company Bubble Technology Industries are attached to fixed locations inside the ISS, including one carried by a crewmember. The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Wilmore and Virts configured EVA tools, reviewed training material, and became familiar with International Docking Adapter (IDA) cable hardware that will be installed during the upcoming EVA.  The EVA to install the IDA cables is scheduled for 20 February, 2015.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS in the hot backup configuration and set up the SSRMS for unberthing SpaceX-5 Dragon.  The ISS Crew unbolted and unlatched the Dragon from the Node 2 Nadir Common Berthing System (CBM) and then the Robotic Ground Controllers used the SSRMS to unberth it and maneuvered it to the release position.  The crew then released the Dragon and, once it had drifted out of the Latching End Effector (LEE) cavity, they backed the SSRMS away from it then commanded Dragon departure.  After departure, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position and supported a video survey of the Node2 Nadir CBM.  MSS performance today was nominal. 

