
Veg-01 Plant Harvest: Kelly harvested, cleaned and dried the Zinnia plants grown for the Veg-01 experiment.  This investigation is used to assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie facility, focusing on the growth and development of seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the composition of microbial flora on the plants and the facility.
 
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Troubleshooting:  Peake completed setup of the JAXA ELF facility and installed the Ultraviolet Lamp unit and door sensor.  The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials employing containerless processing techniques that use the electrostatic levitation method with charged samples and electrodes. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
 
Biochemical Profile: Kopra continued his Flight Day (FD) 60 blood and urine collections for the Biochemical Profile investigation.  Samples were stowed in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a later flight. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
 
Ocular Health Testing:  Kopra and Peake continued their FD 60 session of Ocular Health. They completed tonometry and vision testing, measured blood pressure, and completed a vision questionnaire. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in the ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003 Check Out:  Following last week’s Fan Pump Separator R&R, Kelly successfully performed a Return to Service Checkout on EMU 3003.  The activity consisted of a visual water leakage inspection, structural gas leakage test at the maximum operating suit pressure, and a long-duration leak check. Log files were downlinked and analyzed by ground teams.
 
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Cargo Operations:  Kopra transferred trash into the Cygnus vehicle in preparation for unberth from ISS on February 19th.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Stowage Frame Installation:  Peake initiated the assembly and installation of the JEM Stowage Frame.  Once fully installed, the frame will increase JEM stowage capability by 19 Cargo Transfer Bag Equivalents (CTBE).
 

