
Burning and Suppression of Solids – Milliken (BASS-M):  Today Kopra completed the fifth set of BASS-M operations, preparing and testing five different samples with ground assistance from the Principal Investigator.  The BASS-M investigation tests flame-retardant cotton fabrics to determine how well they resist burning in microgravity. Results benefit research on flame-retardant textiles that can be used on Earth and in space.
 
Circadian Rhythms:  Peake configured and donned the Armband Monitor and Thermolab sensors and belt for his Flight Day 30 Circadian Rhythm session.  He will wear the monitors for 36 hours and then doff and download the data on Friday.  Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
 
Sprint Ultrasound:  Kelly assisted Kopra in performing his Flight Day 60 thigh and calf ultrasound scans today.  Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of the long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003 Fan Pump Separator Remove and Replace (R&R):  As part of a two day activity, Kelly and Peake removed the failed FPS from EMU 3003 today and replaced it with a new pump.  Tomorrow, the crew will finalize the installation by performing pump priming and preparing the EMU for a return to service checkout.  The FPS being removed had failed to start up on December 19th during a Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garment (LCVG) fill activity.
 

