
Orbital 1 Departure: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) in the hot backup configuration for Cygnus unberthing and release.  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata and FE-3 Hopkins demated Cygnus from the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) and used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to uninstall Cygnus and maneuver the spacecraft to the release position. The crew subsequently released Cygnus at 5:42 am CST.  Following the release, Robotics Ground Controllers reconfigured the MSS for nominal operations, used the SSRMS cameras to support an inspection survey of the Node 2 Nadir Active CBM, and powered down the MSS.   Cygnus is scheduled for a destructive re-entry tomorrow, February 19th.
Aniso Tubule Light Treatment:  Wakata retrieved the Aniso Tubule sample from a MELFI and attached a ziplock bag containing the Sample Chamber onto a Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) door to expose it to light. Later in the afternoon, he inserted the Sample Chamber into a light proof bag.  In the coming days,  the sample will be retrieved and placed on the Multi Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) flourescent microscope for a 48 hour observation.  The Aniso Tubule experiment investigates the roles of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins in gravity-induced growth modification of plant stems.
Burning and Suppression of Solids – 2 (BASS-2) Experiment:  FE-5 Mastracchio performed an internal inspection and cleaning of the Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment (SPICE) Experiment Assembly.  He then set up the BASS hardware and performed two flame tests with ground support from the experiment Principal Investigator.  SPICE determines the point at which gas-jet flames (similar to a butane-lighter flame) begin to emit soot in microgravity. Studying a soot emitting flame is important in understanding the ability of fires to spread and in control of soot in practical combustion systems space.  BASS-2 tests the hypothesis that materials in microgravity with adequate ventilation will burn as well or better than in normal gravity with other conditions being identical.  The main variables to be tested are the effects of ambient oxygen concentration, ventilation flow velocity, and fuel type, thickness, and geometry.  Flame growth rates are useful in determining how quickly a fire in space can grow and if the flames reach a finite size or continue to grow.  This has implications for firefighting strategies in spacecraft.

