
Force Shoes:  On Wednesday, Wilmore set up the Force Shoes hardware, activated the Force Shoes unit and tested the wireless mode.  The crew then positioned a camcorder, configured the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) and collected a zero load measurement without the Force Shoes.  Wilmore then donned the Force Shoes and performed ARED data collection. All 34 primary objectives for this session and 12 secondary objectives were obtained.  At the end of the session, the hardware was stowed and imagery downlinked for review by ground teams. Force Shoes is an engineering evaluation of the XSENS Force Shoe system as a potential method to measure exercise loads on the ARED during exercise sessions on the ISS.  Up to four astronauts will be recruited to collect a series of static and dynamic load measurements using the ARED.  Researchers will use the measurements made by the XSENS Force Shoe system to quantify exercise load data which is needed for support of current and future human research experiments.
Plant Rotation:  On Wednesday, after reviewing Plant Rotation familiarization materials and experiment procedures, Virts gathered items and began sample preparation using a syringe to inject water into two Plant Rotation chambers.  He then inserted them into two Plant Experiment Units (PEUs) and attached canisters to the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF). The first of two planned Plant Rotation experiments continues for five days. Many species of climbing plants grow upward in a spiraling shape, a process known as circumnutation. Plant organs also grow in a spiraling, helical shape. This spiraling process can take many forms, including very tight loops and broad curves. Plant Rotation verifies the hypothesis that this type of plant growth requires gravity. Scientists on the ground will study images of rice and morning glory plants growing in microgravity and simulated gravity conditions on the ISS.
Wearable Monitoring:  On Wednesday, Cristoforetti setup hardware and donned the Wearable Monitoring Vest for data acquisition during sleep. Today, Cristoforetti removed the vest, stowed hardware, and transferred data from the Wearable Monitoring session.  This is the third of six planned sessions.  Wearable Monitoring validates a new cloth vest that monitors astronaut heart rates and breathing patterns during sleep. It collects data to investigate whether changes in heart activity are related to astronauts’ poor sleep quality. The Wearable Monitor is a lightweight vest with silver wires and sensors embedded into the fabric, making it comfortable to wear.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (JSSOD) Removal:  Today, Virts removed the JSSOD from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP).  The crew opened the inner hatch, extended the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table, removed the JSSOD, retracted the slide table and closed the JEMAL inner hatch.  The JSSOD had been used to deploy the first Brazilian cubesat (AESP-14) last week on February 5th. 
Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling Cycle (FROST):  Virts reconfigured and routed power cables, returning the FROST to its nominal configuration.  Next, Cristoforetti inserted one FROST Ice Pack into an Ice Pack Case.  Shortly after, she noticed some leakage coming from the ice pack case.  The leaking ice pack was then removed, contained, and stowed while ground teams develop a forward plan.
Nanorack Cube Sat Deployer (NRCSD):  Virts reviewed materials and procedures in preparation for NRCSD configuration.   Tomorrow, the crew will prepare the Maintenance Work Area (MWA), secure the NRCSD to the work surface area and then modify existing Quad Deployers to install Safety Latches.  Video is recorded and still photos taken for downlink. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:  Wilmore and Virts obtained body fit check measurements on themselves.  Later, they continued to prepare tools which will be used as part of the approaching EVA.  The EVA to install International Docking Adapter (IDA) cables is scheduled to occur on February 20th 2015.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 Undock Drill:  Samokutyaev and Cristoforetti conducted onboard training in preparation for Saturday’s ATV-5 undocking.  During today’s training, they familiarized themselves with the undocking/departure sequence and associated procedures.  ATV-5 is schedule to undock from the Service Module aft docking port on Saturday, February 14th at 7:40am CST.  

