
USOS Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) #48: Today, Mark Vande Hei (as EV1) and Norishige Kanai (as EV2) performed USOS EVA #48 with a Phased Elapsed Time (PET) of 5:57. The primary goal of today’s EVA was to remove and replace the Payload ORU Accommodation (POA) Latching End Effector (LEE). The LEE formerly occupying the POA was brought inside ISS via the Joint Airlock while the LEE previously on the External Stowage Platform (ESP)-2 Flight Support Equipment (FSE) was relocated to the POA. The crew also performed the following get-ahead tasks: LEE Lube, Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) Deploy, Force Movement Sensor (FMS) Grounding Strap Install, and Flex Hose Rotary Coupler (FHRC) Strut Correction.  
Veg-03 Initiation: The crew continued to perform Veg-03 operations by thinning the plants to one plant per pillow and adding water to the small plant pillows. The overall goal of Veg-03 is to further demonstrate proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long-duration missions into the solar system, finally culminating on Mars, will require a fresh food supply to supplement crew diets, which means growing crops in space. Previous investigations focused on improving productivity in controlled environments, but the limited quarters of the space shuttle and International Space Station made it difficult to conduct large-scale crop production tests. Veg-03 expands on previous validation tests of the new Veggie hardware, which crew members will soon use to grow cabbage, lettuce and other fresh vegetables in space.
Space Headaches: The crew completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.

