
Cosmo Shoot Operation:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata set up JAXA’s Cosmo Shoot laptop and 4K camera in the Cupola and captured images of the US west coast, India and the Himalayas, Africa and South America.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Resonant Inductive Near-field Generation System (RINGS):  FE-6 Wakata integrated the RINGS hardware with SPHERES to prepare for the RINGS test tomorrow.  The RINGS experiment tests hardware and software that enables relative station keeping, maneuvering, and attitude control between two SPHERES satellites using steerable electromagnetic dipoles.
Biolab Laptop Transition:  FE-3 Hopkins configured the new laptop for Biolab for a functional checkout.  BioLab is a multiuser research facility used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. The facility will allow scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Life Science Ancillary Hardware (LSAH) Operations:  FE-5 Mastracchio reviewed hardware procedures and visually inspected and activated the MSG facility prior to payload operations.  He installed and checked out the MSG LSAH Decontamination System inside the MSG Work Volume.
Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Operations: JAXA Robotic Flight Controllers remotely unberthed the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) from the JEM Airlock Slide Table then maneuvered the JEMRMS Main Arm with the NanoRacks CubSat Deployer (NRCSD) to the small satellite deploy position.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and released Latching End Effector B (LEE-B) from the Functional Cargo Block (FGB) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF).  They then maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) away from the FGB and into position to grapple Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF 3.  Finally the Robotics Ground Controllers, grappled, latched and mated LEE-B to MBS PDGF 3 and changed the SSRMS base to LEE-B on MBS PDGF3.  The SSRMS is in position for the Force Moment Sensor (FMS) data gathering planned tomororrow.  MSS performance was nominal.

