
Cube Satellite (CubeSat) Deploys: Yesterday the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (RMS) was used to move 8 NanoRacks CubSat Deployers (NRCSDs) from the JEM Airlock to the deploy position.  These NRCSDs contain a total of 16 small cube satellites. Today JAXA Robotic Flight Controllers successfully deployed the first 4 CubeSats.  The remaining satellites in the NRCSDs on the JEMRMS will be launched this week.  CubeSat format satellites are launched from the ISS for a variety of commercial and national customers.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Resonant Inductive Near-field Generation System (RINGS) Test Session:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata and FE-3 Hopkins completed integration of RINGS hardware with two SPHERES satellites, set up cameras, loaded programs into the satellites, and performed the second RINGS test session.  The RINGS experiment tests hardware and software that enables relative station keeping, maneuvering and attitude control between two SPHERES satellites using steerable electromagnetic dipoles.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Annual Recertification: FE-5 Mastracchio performed MSG annual recertification activities including sensor checkouts, inspections and work volume cleaning. The MSG is one of the major dedicated science facilities inside the US Laboratory module.  It has a large front window and built-in gloves to provide a sealed environment for conducting science and technology experiments. The Glovebox is particularly suited for handling hazardous materials when the crew is present.  The MSG supports investigations in microgravity that are similar to those carried out in ground-based laboratories.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons 2 (RaDI-N2) Detector Processing:  FE-5 Mastracchio retrieved 8 bubble detectors from their deployed locations, concluding the fourth of five planned sessions. He then handed over the detectors to a Russian crew member who will process them in the Bubble Reader.  Radi-N2 is a follow-on investigation of RaDI-N1 and the Matroshka-R experiments conducted on ISS. The 8 neutron “bubble detectors” are attached to fixed locations inside the ISS, including one carried by a crewmember. RaDI-N2 is designed to characterize the neutron radiation environment inside the ISS. The results of this investigation will be used to define the risk to ISS crewmembers’ health and in the development of advanced protective measures for future space flights.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) on the Prime String and released Latching End Effector A (LEE-A) from the Lab Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF).  They then maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) away from the Lab and into position to perform the first session of SSRMS Force Moment Sensor (FMS) Data Gathering.   They calibrated the LEE-A FMS and collected FMS data for one orbit.  They then powered down the SSRMS and powered it up on the Redundant String, re-calibrated the LEE-A FMS and started the second session of data gathering.  At the completion of this session, the Robotic Ground Controllers will pick up the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) with the SSRMS and maneuver it into position for the start of the third and fourth sessions of FMS Data Gathering planned for tomorrow.

