
85 Progress (85P) Undocking:Last night, the Russian cargo vehicle, 85P, undocked from the ISS SM Aft port at 08:09 PM CST. The deorbit burn occurred at 11:17 PM CST followed by atmospheric entry and destruction. Progress telemetry was lost at 11:50 PM CST and burn up occurred shortly thereafter.
Payloads:
Advanced Plant Experiment-10 (APEX-10): The crew took photos of the plants growing in twenty of the APEX-10 petri plates. Plant and microbial associations are key to the success of individual plants, but scientists do not yet understand how the space environment may alter these associations. Plant-Microbe Interactions in Space (APEX-10) tests whether the beneficial microbe Trichoderma harzianum confers increased stress resilience and improved growth to seedlings of tomato plants (Lycopersicum esculentum) when grown together in microgravity.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: Following a successful fiber pull yesterday, the processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the series to be processed. Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consists of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3 and 20% NaF. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
NanoRacks-GITAI S2: The GITAI S2 hardware was installed into the NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL). Project GITAI S2’s extraveHicular multi-Objective in-Space servicing Task demonstration (GHOST) validates the design, build, and operation of extravehicular robotics (EVR) systems. The research uses GITAI’s S2 2-meter class modular robotic arm. Results may facilitate future commercial lunar missions, providing the public and private sectors with robust and high-performance robotics for space stations, on-orbit services, and lunar cities.
Microgravity Acceleration Measurement System (MAMS): The crew installed the refurbished MAMS system into its EXPRESS Rack (ER) 6 location. MAMS was originally activated more than 20 years ago and ran for 16 years before needing to be returned to the ground for repairs. MAMS studies the small vibrations and accelerations due to the operation of hardware, crew activities, or vehicle dockings and maneuvers. The results are then used to generalize the types of vibrations affecting vibration-sensitive experiments.
JAXA/Try Zero-G for Asia: The crew used various props to conduct several experiments in support of the Try Zero-G for Asia experiment. Props included a pair of sticks attached together, a cube, capillary tubes, and several other items. JAXA hosts several Educational Payload Operation (EPO) investigations designed to attract public attention for Japanese manned spaceflight activities. The Try Zero-G for Asia is an EPO consisting of several activities in the JEM. Crewmembers conduct several small experiments submitted by students from the Asia-Pacific region to demonstrate the effects of microgravity.
Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor-2 (SCRAM-2): The crew used Grab Sample Containers (GSCs) to collect air samples close to the SCRAM-2 system. These samples will be returned to the ground and analyzed for comparison to the SCRAM-2 data. SCRAM-2 is a miniature mass spectrometer air analyzer that monitors the major constituents in the ISS cabin air (e.g. N2, O2, CO2), providing one of several sources of data for ISS ground teams to assess health risks. SCRAM-2 also has Trace Gas Analysis (TGA) capability, which can detect volatile organic compounds.
Vascular Aging and Space Health Combined Session: The crew performed the second day of the three-day experiment session, which included breath calibration, a Space Health questionnaire, and conclusion of the 13-hour blood pressure session. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. Vascular Aging investigates indications that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries.
Systems:
Russian Urine EDV Inspection: The crew completed an inspection of a Russian urine EDV to identify any signs of a leaks, air intrusion, or off-nominal pretreat quality. EDVs are intended for short-term storage, and manual water transportation, between facilities. EDVs are also used to store water and urine for disposal on the Progress vehicle.
Resupply Air Tank Teardown: The crew finished tearing down four Resupply Air Tanks for stowage after a successful resupply into the ISS Stack. Resupply Air Tanks are disposable pressure tanks used to deliver air to the ISS and augment the Nitrogen/Oxygen Resupply (NORS) tanks. These tanks are used regularly to repressurize the ISS atmosphere with breathable air.
