
Cygnus Departure:  Today, Robotics Ground Controllers used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to unberth Cygnus from the Node 1 nadir berthing port and maneuvered the spacecraft to its release position.  Kopra and Kelly subsequently released Cygnus at 6:26 am CST and monitored its nominal departure.   Cygnus is scheduled for a destructive re-entry tomorrow, February 20th.  Cygnus was berthed to the ISS for 72 days.
 
Biological Rhythms 48 Hours:  Today, Kelly completed his third and final Biological Rhythms experiment, removing the Holter Electrocardiogram and transferring data from the Holter and Actiwatch to the Medical laptop.  This Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) investigation studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours. While the ISS schedule follows Greenwich Mean Time, it is not known whether a separate biological rhythm is imposed on long-term flight crews. To study this, astronauts wear an Actiwatch and a Holter electrocardiograph.
 
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack 2 (MSPR2):  Peake performed troubleshooting for an issue with the Workbench locking mechanism on the JAXA MSPR2.
 
RADI-N:  Kopra completed the final Canadian Space Agency (CSA) RADI-N run for Increments 45 and 46.  He  collected the 8 detectors that were deployed in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) and handed them over to Russian crewmember Malenchenko.  The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
 
Ocular Health:  With Peake acting as Chief Medical Officer, Kelly performed his last testing for the Ocular Health investigation by completing an Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) test today.  OCT is used to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer, and the fundoscope is used to obtain images of the retinal surface.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
NeuroMapping: Kelly completed his Flight Day 330 NeuroMapping neurocognitive test on a Human Research Facility laptop.  The Neuromapping experiment studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes any changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking; as well as measuring how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from those possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from crewmembers returning from a long-duration spaceflight suggests that movement control and cognition are affected in microgravity.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Conductivity Test:  Kelly tested the conductivity of water samples obtained earlier this week from EMUs 3003 and 3010.  The results will be downlinked for ground teams to review.
 
Crew Departure Preparation:  Kelly packed his personal items for return to the ground. The items will be split between Soyuz 44, SpaceX-8, and SpaceX-9 vehicles.
 
Sidekick Checkout:  Kelly worked with ground controllers to prepare Sidekick’s Microsoft HoloLens devices for this weekend’s initial checkout of the on-board and ground components of the system.  The goal of Sidekick is to investigate the use of this new technology to increase the efficiency of crew activities related to the daily execution of science, maintenance, and other ISS operations.
 
 

