
 
Preparation for Cygnus Unberth and Release:  The Crew has configured Cygnus and the Node 1 vestibule in preparation for Cygnus departure tomorrow. This morning, the Crew removed Intermodule Ventilation, Power/Data Jumpers, and closed the Cygnus hatch.  Once the hatch was closed, the Crew installed the Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Center Disk Cover and four CBM Controller Panel Assemblies (CPAs) onto an Active CBM bulkhead, then closed the Node 1 nadir hatch.   In addition, ground teams successfully checked out the Proximity (PROX) Communication Link.  Cygnus is now being powered though its Power Video Grapple Fixture (PVGF) by the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and is ready for unberth tomorrow at approximately 4:10am CST with release planned to occur at 6:25am CST.
 
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF):  Today Peake installed a sample cartridge in the ELF chamber.  The JAXA ground team then started ELF checkout with that sample. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials employing containerless processing techniques that use the electrostatic levitation method with charged samples and electrodes. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
 
Microbiome:  Today Kelly continued his Return Minus 14 day Microbiome session by collecting body and surface samples.  Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
 
Cognition:  Kopra and Peake each performed their Flight Day 60 session of the Cognition experiment today.  The Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) investigation is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software used allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Fine Motor Skills:  Kopra and Peake each completed sessions of the Fine Motor Skills experiment today.  During the experiment they performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
 

