
Confined Combustion: The crew performed the final sample burn, removed the Confined Combustion hardware from MSG and stowed it.  The final sample was an acrylic (aka poly methyl methacrylate or plexiglass) sample installed with black baffles.  This project aims to study flame spread in confined spaces—specifically the interactions between spreading flames and surrounding walls. Flame spread in confined spaces (such as buildings and vehicles) may pose a more serious fire hazard than flame spread in open spaces because of acceleration caused by radiative heat feedback from the surrounding walls and a tunnel flow acceleration effect. However, several aspects of flame spread are difficult to study in normal gravity conditions. Gravity-driven buoyancy flow complicates the fire growth process and prohibits a fundamental understanding of the underlying physics. However, in microgravity, buoyancy is eliminated, allowing scientists to better study the physics of flame spread.
LSG (Life Science Glovebox):  The crew deployed the work volume so the ground teams could verify the recently-performed LSG work volume light repair was successful.  The lights were verified to be working nominally and the LSG was then powered down and stowed.  LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design (0.42 cubic meter of enclosed work space), two crewmembers can work in the LSG simultaneously.  LSG provides air filtration for contaminant removal, adjustable fan speeds, 350 watts of 28Vdc and 110Vac power (combined), video and data recording, real time downlink, adjustable overhead illumination, temperature regulation (18-27ºC) and ferrous surfaces for magnetic attachment of investigation hardware.
Systems:
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Hydrogen (H2) Sensor Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Remove & Replace (R&R):  Today, the crew performed an R&R of the OGS H2 sensor and cleaned the associated Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) inlet.  The H2 sensor R&R is routine maintenance activity and is necessary due to nominal degradation of the H2 sensor materials over time. Following today’s R&R, ground specialists will be conducting a checkout of the new sensor.
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fluids Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) Remove and Replace (R&R):  Ground teams are continuing to troubleshoot the root cause of the UPA low production rates. It is thought the cause of the UPA degraded performance is located somewhere between the FCPA and Distillation Assembly (DA); and as a result, the crew performed an FCPA R&R today. This evening, ground teams will perform a checkout of the FCPA to determine if today’s maintenance activity has resolved the UPA processing issue.

