
Astrobee: The crew participated in a conference with the Astrobee payload developer to discuss details of the docking station installation preparation. Following this, they configured and prepared the JEM Astrobee docking station location. The actual docking station installation is currently planned for Friday of this week. When all the hardware arrives on orbit, Astrobee will consist of three self-contained, free flying robots and a docking station for use inside the ISS. The robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Fluids Integrated Rack Light Microscopy Module (FIR/LMM) Biophysics 5-2 plate exchange: Following the completion of the planned science for plate s/n 2002, the crew removed it from the PACE (Preliminary Advanced Colloids Experiment) LED Base inside the LMM (Light Microscopy Module) AFC (Auxiliary Fluids Container), installed plate s/n 2006, and dispensed oil on the plate. Initial inspection via ground commanding shows 2 of the 4 capillaries in plate 2006 are cracked and the team is assessing a forward plan. LMM/Biophysics-5-2 looks at the relationship between solution convection – the movement of molecules through the fluid – and dense liquid clusters from which protein crystals can form. The main objective of the investigation is to understand why protein crystallization experiments in microgravity have often generated unexpectedly low or high numbers of crystals. Both of these outcomes may negatively affect experiments designed to obtain a small number of well-separated crystals for x-ray structure studies.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3006 Flush: In preparation for a Fan Pump Separator (FPS) R&R next Monday, the crew performed a cooling loop flush on the EMU 3006 today. In addition, they obtained a 60 mL sample from the Displays and Control Module (DCM) for chemical analysis. EMU 3006 FPS had failed to activate during a preventative maintenance activity on January 22.

