
Robotic Refueling Mission 3 (RRM3): Today crewmembers installed the RRM3 hardware on the JEM Airlock slide table. Robotic Refueling Mission 3 (RRM3) demonstrates the first transfer and long term storage of liquid methane, a cryogenic fluid, in microgravity. The ability to replenish and store cryogenic fluids, which can function as a fuel or coolant, can help enable long duration journeys to destinations like the Moon and Mars.
JAXA Mouse Mission: Today a crewmember attached Odor filters into the Mouse habitat Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) unit in preparation for upcoming SpaceX-17 mission. The purpose of this mission is to analyze any alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term space environment.
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL): Today a crewmember replaced CO2 Incubator Controllers into SABL1 and SABL2. CO2 levels inside the SABLs were then measured. The Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL) supports a wide variety of experiments in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and experiments. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 for cell cultures and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28vdc and 5vdc power supplies for experiment use.
CSA Comm and Outreach (CSA Video): Today a crewmember recorded two Educational outreach video events. Prime objective is to document and support communications and outreach activities related to the Canadian space program and the ISS utilization in particular.
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS)-02: Today a crewmember replaced the Ultrabay hard drive on the AMS dedicated Laptop. AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays.
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): Today the crew removed ACME hardware items from storage and consolidated them with other ACME hardware. The ACME experiment series being performed in the CIR includes five independent studies of gaseous flames. The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth.  Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.

