
Cube Satellite (CubeSat) Deploys:  Four additional CubeSats were deployed overnight from the NanoRacks CubeSat Deployers (NRCSDs) by JAXA Robotic Flight Controllers, for a total of 12 CubeSats launched this week.  Unsuccessful attempts to launch from NRCSD locations 4 and 5 are under investigation by NASA NRCSD Teams. Additional attempts will be made to launch those CubeSats this weekend. CubeSat format satellites are launched from the ISS for a variety of commercial and national customers.
Ocular Health (OH) Cardiac and Ocular Ultrasounds: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata assisted FE-3 Hopkins in preparing for and conducting ocular and cardiac ultrasound scans as part of Hopkins’ Return-Minus-30 (R-30) OH session.  Remote guidance was provided by ground experts to ensure proper positioning and data collection. These ultrasounds are used to identify changes in ocular globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Medaka Osteoclast 2:  Wakata removed the Medaka chamber from the Florescent Microscope and placed the samples in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Medaka sample was under observation in the microscope for seven days.  During space flight, bone mineral density is decreased by the influence of osteoclast activation in which the molecular mechanism is under investigation.  In order to find the effect of microgravity on osteoclast activation in space, in-vivo imaging analyses for gene expression and cell mobility with the medaka osteoclast-specific transgenic lines is performed.  With the combination with the long-term growth experiment Medeka Osteoclast, the Principal Investigator examines the alteration of osteoclast activity under microgravity.
Burning and Suppression of Solids – 2 (BASS-2) Experiment Preparation:  With support from ground experts, FE-5 Mastracchio performed the first BASS-2 science operations.  BASS-2 tests the hypothesis that materials in microgravity with adequate ventilation will burn as well or better than in normal gravity with other conditions being identical.  The main variables to be tested are the effects of ambient oxygen concentration, ventilation flow velocity, and fuel type, thickness, and geometry.  Many of the tests will focus on finding a minimum oxygen concentration or flow velocity where a material will burn in space, to compare with the Earth-based limits.   Flame growth rates are also of interest, to determine how quickly a fire in space can grow and if the flames reach a finite size or continue to grow.  This has implications for firefighting strategies in spacecraft.
Cygnus ROBOT On-Board Training (OBT):  Utilizing an onboard simulator, Hopkins and Wakata participated in a Cygnus ROBOT OBT. This session consisted of two Cygnus release scenarios in which the crew practiced techniques for backing the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) away from Cygnus based on the visual cues included in the procedure.  A second objective was to practice coordinating the abort commanding once 3 meters back off is reached.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS, calibrated the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector B (LEE-B) Force Moment Sensor (FMS) and collected Prime String FMS data for one orbit. They then powered down the SSRMS and powered it up on the Redundant String, re-calibrated the LEE-B FMS and collected FMS data, again for one orbit.  This completed the SSRMS FMS Data Gathering Task that was initiated on Tuesday February 11th.  Data was collected for both LEEs operating on both strings with the LEEs both loaded (with the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and unloaded.  This data will be used to help update FMS algorithms for the MSS 8 software.  Next the Robotics Ground Controllers walked the SSRMS off Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 1 (PDGF1) onto the Node 2 PDGF.  Finally they maneuvered the SSRMS to grapple Cygnus Power and Video Grapple Fixture (PVGF) in preparation for its release next week.

