
Mouse Mission-5: As a continuation of the preparation for the upcoming Mouse Mission-5, the crew performed the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) power cable reconnect and filter installation.  Stress caused by partial G may alter gene expression in cells of the body. The investigation analyzes any such alterations and their possible effects on development of germ cells, which carry genetic information and expression to subsequent generations.
Hermes:   The crew performed the periodic vacuum valve opening for HERMES.  These operations maintain the desired vacuum levels for the granular/regolith simulation experiments typically hosted by the HERMES facility.  Hermes is a reconfigurable on-orbit facility capable of accommodating up to four user-configurable experiment volumes at a time. The facility provides long duration exposure to microgravity, vacuum (at least 10-3 torr), power, lighting, cameras, customizable experiment tools, downlink of data, access to data storage, autonomous monitoring, acceleration measurements, and ground commanding of the lighting, cameras, and experiments tools.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS):  As a continuation of the operations with JWRS, the crew disconnecting the appropriate hoses, cables and bags from JEM WRS Processor.  This is the first in a series of three sets of activities to accomplish the current goal. The JWRS demonstration will generate potable water from urine using some different, and possibly more efficient, technologies than the water reclamation currently in use on the ISS.  In the past on manned spacecraft, urine and waste water were collected and stored, or vented overboard. For long-term space missions, however, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Radi-N2 deploy: After initialization and handover from the Russian crew, the neutron detectors were deployed in the Cupola window 3 and 4 area.  The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Systems:
Northrop Grumman (NG)-13 Arrival Preparation: In preparation for Cygnus arrival, the crew completed a second Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session. The Cygnus spacecraft is scheduled to rendezvous with the ISS on Tuesday, February 18th with an estimated capture time of 3:00 am CT.

