
Burning and Suppression of Solids – Milliken (BASS-M):  Today Kopra completed the final session of BASS-M operations, preparing and testing different samples with ground assistance from the Principal Investigator.  The BASS-M investigation tests flame-retardant cotton fabrics to determine how well they resist burning in microgravity. Results benefit research on flame-retardant textiles that can be used on Earth and in space.
 
Microbiome:  For his Return Minus 14 day Microbiome session, Kelly collected a fecal sample and completed a questionnaire.  Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time)
 
Ocular Health:  In support of their ongoing Flight Day 60 Ocular Health investigation, Kopra and Peake completed Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) testing and Kelly, acting as the Chief Medical Officer (CMO), performed a fundoscopy activity of Kopra and Peake.  OCT is used to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer, and the fundoscope is used to obtain images of the retinal surface.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Education Payloads Operations (EPO) – AstroPi:  Peake set up the European Space Agency (ESA) AstroPi IR hardware in the Node 2 nadir hatch window.  The payload then autonomously run a pre-defined sequence of program files.  AstroPi is composed of RaspberryPi B+, Sense HAT (Hardware Attached on Top) and a camera module, contained within a protective aluminum case.  Raspberry Pi is a credit-card sized computer that enables students to explore computing and learn how to program. Two AstroPi are on board: AstroPi Vis, with visible light camera, and AstroPi IR, with an infrared camera.  Both AstroPi will run programs written by the winners of a student competition and collect data from sensors (i.e., inertial movement, barometric pressure, relative humidity and temperature). The data will be shared with schools.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003 and EMU 3010 Loop Scrubs:  Following yesterday’s successful EMU 3003 Return To Service (RTS) activities, Kelly performed cooling loop maintenance on the suit, as well as on EMU 3010. This included ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) of EMU and Airlock cooling water loops. These activities were followed by a dry out of the EMU fan module and vent loop.
 
Correction for Daily Summary Report on Monday, 02/15/16:
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Stowage Frame:  The JEM Stowage Frame Installation was not performed yesterday as stated in the Daily Summary Report.  The activity will be rescheduled for another day in the near future.   Once fully installed, the frame will increase JEM stowage capability by 12 Cargo Transfer Bag Equivalents (CTBE).
 

