
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 Undocking:  ATV-5 successfully undocked from the Service Module Aft docking port Saturday, February 14th at 7:42 am CST.  On Sunday, ATV-5 performed its final de-orbit burn prior to destructive reentry, which took place shortly after noon CST. The crew monitored and took photographs of ATV’s departure from ISS and smoke trail after reentry. 
Ocular Health (OH):  Acting as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO), Cristoforetti set up and performed a blood pressure measurement and tonometry test on Virts as part of his flight day 90 regular series of exams for Ocular Health.  The Ocular Health protocol is a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment / intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Multi-mission Consolidated Equipment (MCE) EarthRim:  Wilmore set up a camera in Cupola for sequential auto photo shooting to support the Earth Rim experiment. The Multi-mission Consolidated Equipment (MCE) investigation consists of five small unique instruments that are located at Equipment Exchange Unit (EER) site 8 on the Japanese Experiment Module – Exposed Facility (JEF).  Several photos taken by a digital still camera from the Cupola window give the Ionosphereic Mesoshpere Upper Atmosphere and Plasamasphere mapping (IMAP) investigation further observation data and enhance research outcome(A-IMAP/Earth Rim observation) with simultaneous observations.
Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) Change Out:  Yesterday, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and set up the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to change out the previously failed RPCM P12B_C.  The new RPCM was powered up without incident, and the failed RPCM was placed into its new stowage slot and survival heater power was applied.  The SSRMS and SPDM were then maneuvered to a park position ready translation from Mobile Transporter (MT) Worksite (WS) 6 to WS2 on 19 February, where the MSS will be for the upcoming USOS EVAs. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003 and 3005 On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV):  Wilmore, Virts and Cristoforetti performed EMU OFV to confirm the correct sizing of the EMUs and conducted communications and data checks.  They made fit adjustments based on any physical changes that have occurred while on-orbit.  Following the OFV, the crew performed additional characterization of the EMU 3005 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) current data. The EVA to install International Docking Assembly (IDA) cables is scheduled for this Friday, February 20th. 

