ISS On-Orbit Status 02/18/11
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   
 
 Sleep cycle shift:   Wake – 1:00am; Sleep – 6:00pm (today)
              Wake – 2:30am; Sleep – 4:30pm (tomorrow; return to regular)
 
 HTV2 relocation from Node-2 nadir (downward) port to zenith (upward) port was successfully accomplished by Paolo Nespoli &amp; Cady Coleman with the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) in a lengthy operation.  Hatch opening is scheduled for Monday, 2/21.     [Keeping the HTV cargo ship on the nadir port would have blocked access to the Shuttle cargo bay after STS-133/ULF5 docking to Node-2 Fwd next week (2/26).  HTV2 will be returned to nadir on 3/7.]
 
 FE-2 Skripochka conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Oleg will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 At wake-up, FE-4 Kondratyev terminated his 7<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
 CDR Kelly continued his current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 8<sup>th</sup> session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 FE-1 Kaleri conducted the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the “bake-out” cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated at ~3:30pm EST before sleep time.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed on 2/14.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 1/24-25).]
 
 FE-5 Nespoli updated his daily diet log for his 3<sup>rd</sup> six-day session for the SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) experiment, which entails diet intake loggings (low salt diet), body mass measurements and blood &amp; urine samplings.       [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Paolo ingested a special High Salt diet (which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level), for Session 2 he switched to a Low salt diet.  SOLO Diets start with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are logged daily on sheets stowed in the PCBA Consumable Kit in the MELFI along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) on Days 4 &amp; 6.  Blood samples are taken on Day 5, centrifuged &amp; inserted in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) and also measured with the PCBA.  24-hr urine collections are performed on Day 5, with sample insertion in MELFI.    Background:   SOLO, a NASA/ESA-German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 &amp; MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]
 
 In preparation for the subsequent relocation of the JAXA HTV2 (H-II Transfer Vehicle, Kounotori 2), CDR Kelly &amp; FE-6 Coleman –
 <ul style="margin-top: 0pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 36pt; "> <li>Disconnected the remaining power jumper in the HTV PLC (Pressurized Logistic Carrier) Vestibule &amp; completed HTV thermal cover installation,</li><li>Installed the Node-2 nadir port CDC (Center Disk Cover), with CDC flap open,</li><li>Checked CBM (Common Berthing Mechanism) latch clearance, and</li><li>Closed the Node-2 nadir hatch.</li></ul> 
 Kelly then initiated the 2h 25m depressurization of the Vestibule between HTV and Node-2.     [The 5-ft VAJ (Vacuum Access Jumper) with its ISA (Internal Sampling Adapter) was left connected and moved aside for the pressurization of the HTV/Node-2 zenith vestibule later today.]
 
 For covering the HTV2 robotics operations, FE-5 Nespoli activated the VSW (Video Streaming Workstation) and SSC-1 (Station Support Computer 1) laptops for downlinking converted NTSC MPEG-2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.
 
 Paolo also enabled the Cupola RWS UOP (Robotic Workstation / Utility Outlet Panel) for power-up in Node-3, connected the UOP DCP (Display &amp; Control Panel) power bypass cable at the Cupola RWS, and installed the CCR (Cupola Crew Restraint) in the Cupola.    
 
 Coleman closed the protective shutters of the Lab and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) science windows.      [The Node-3/Cupola windows had to remain open for the SSRMS activities.]
 
 FE-6 also powered up the CBCS (Centerline Berthing Camera System) at the Node-2 nadir port and checked out the video system.
 
 In Node-2, Scott &amp; Cady then demated the nadir CBM by removing its bolts and deploying the latches.
 
 Afterwards, Paolo &amp; Cady operated the Canadian SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) to unberth the HTV2 and maneuver it from the nadir port to the RTL (Ready-To-Latch) stop at the zenith port of Node-2, an activity taking several hours.   [No exercise was allowed during this period.]
 
 During the transfer, Scott Kelly used an internal camcorder to perform a careful survey of the HTV’s PCBM (Passive CBM) out of the Node-2 nadir CBM hatch to check for any FOD (Foreign Object/Debris) on the mating surfaces.
 
 With Cady &amp; Scott then monitoring CBM operations through confirmed First Stage &amp; Second Stage Capture plus subsequent ABOLT (Acquire Bolts) driving, Paolo “limped” the SSRMS between First &amp; Second Stage and finally released the robotarm’s LEE (Latching End Effector).     [Crew exercise was allowed only after ABOLTs was complete due to loads/dynamics flight rules.]
 
 Afterwards, FE-6 disabled power to the Cupola RWS UOP in Node-3, removed &amp; temporarily stowed the CBCS in Node-2 (ready for the HTV2 return on 3/28) and visually verified closure of all four Node-2 CBM petal covers through the Cupola windows.
 
 FE-5 deactivated the VSW (Video Streaming Workstation) along with the additional laptop used for viewing in the Cupola, and then removed the CCR which had stabilized the SSRMS operator.
 
 CDR Kelly meanwhile cycled the Node-2 zenith hatch latches to Closed and initiated vestibule pressurization and leak checking.
 
 Later today, Scott &amp; Cady will open the Node-2 nadir port hatch and perform Part 1 of HTV Vestibule outfitting by removing the CDC and mating the Channel 1 power jumper between the zenith port and the HTV.  The HTV hatch will be opened on Monday.
 
 FE-1 Kaleri continued the re-integration of the Progress M-09M/41P (#409) cargo ship from its EVA-28-required contingency undock configuration by completing the disassembly of the StM docking mechanism (Stykovochnovo mekhanizma) between SM (Service Module) and the cargo ship and installing the two ruchek (handles) on the external hatch door of 41P which he had taken off Progress 39P yesterday. 
 
 Later, Kaleri started a new round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today cleaning the Group A ventilator fans &amp; grilles in the SM.
 
 Afterwards, Alex used the Russian KPT-12 payload with its BAR science instruments suite for about 2 hrs of taking ultrasound measurements with the AU ultrasound analyzer in the SM to identify sources of elevated background ultrasound in areas at laptop and BRI (SSR/Smart Switch Router) locations.  Data were downlinked via OCA, and the activities were supported by ground specialist tagup as required.      [Objective of the Russian KPT-12/BAR science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Piren-B is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Besides KPT-2 Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
 FE-2 Skripochka &amp; FE-4 Kondratyev had ~3 hrs set aside to stow tools &amp; equipment used during their spacewalk, including returning US gear to the USOS (US Segment), with IMS (Inventory Management System) barcode logging.
 
 Skripochka also performed air sampling using two Russian AK-1M absorbers in the FGB &amp; SM and the IPD-CO sampler to check the SM cabin air for CO (Carbon Monoxide).  The samplers were re-stowed for subsequent return to Earth.
 
 Kondratyev meanwhile undertook the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PrK–Progress, DC1–Progress, PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment) – RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]
 
 FE-4 then set up the BSPN Payload Server for the Russian GFI-17 “Molniya” FOTON-GAMMA experiment which he &amp; Oleg had installed outside during EVA-28, then downloaded (“dumped”) the service data files.      [GFI-17 “Molniya” FOTON-GAMMA investigates atmospheric gamma-ray bursts and optical radiation in conditions of thunderstorm activity.]
 
 In the DC-1 Docking Compartment, Oleg Skripochka terminated the discharge process on the first set of 825-M3 Orlan batteries and initiated it on the 2<sup>nd</sup> set.
 
 Scott performed another module data take on the CubeLab and transferred files of collected data to laptop for downlink.     [CubeLab is a low-cost 1-kg platform for educational projects.  It is a multipurpose research facility that interfaces small standard modules into the ERs (EXPRESS Racks).  The modules can be used within the pressurized space station environment in orbit, with a nominal length, width, and height of 100 mm and a mass of no more than 1 g.  Up to 16 CubeLab modules can be inserted into a CubeLab insert inside an ER.]
 
 Kondratyev conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
 Later, Dmitri completed another data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was his 8<sup>th</sup> run.    [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
 Cady supported the BCAT-5 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-5) payload in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) by conducting the periodic camera/flash setup status check without SSC (Station Support Computer) on the running BCAT-5 with Sample 9.     [The checkup includes image transfer, camera battery and camera/flash position.  For Sample 9, it is scheduled on INIT + 1 day and then once during the run (about INIT + 10 days) or twice during the run (about INIT + 7 and INIT + 14 days) if possible during automated photography.]
 
 Dmitri &amp; Oleg again had ~1h reserved for shooting more video footage on life onboard the station for Roskosmos, particularly for the Russian TV Channel Karusel (Merry Go-round)    [Footage today focused mainly on personal hygiene, station cleaning, and food, including crew interactions during the meal.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]
 
 At ~3:15am EST, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
 At ~9:10am, Kaleri, Kondratyev &amp; Skripochka linked up with TsUP/Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
 At ~4:55pm, Cady is scheduled for her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Woollya Cove, Chile (HMS Beagle site:  A break in the weather should have permitted at least partly cloudy views of this off-track target area as ISS approached from the W at midday.  At this time the crew was to begin looking well right of track on the far side of Tierra del Fuego.  Visual cues were first the wide spit of land of Tierra del Fuego itself, then the narrow strip of water known as the Beagle Channel which divides Argentina [Tierra del Fuego] from Chile [islands south of the channel].  The target is the waterway between major islands on the south side of the channel.  Darwin and Captain Fitzroy of HMS Beagle upon arriving on March 5, 1834, were disappointed to find that the mission station set up here some years earlier had been abandoned.  The crew was asked to attempt an oblique mapping strip to acquire this challenging target), Chiloe Island, southern Chile (HMS Beagle Site:  Darwin first arrived at Chiloe Island on June 12, 1834 and visited several places there.  It is 190 km in length, the largest of its group of coastal islands, and one of the wettest places in South America.  ISS had a mid-afternoon pass with fair weather expected.  Its approach was from the SW.  Looking just right of track for this rugged, forested island and try for context views of the island as a whole), and Wellington, New Zealand (the capital city of New Zealand is located on a small bay off Cook Strait near the southern tip of North Island.  The crew had a fine fair-weather pass in mid-morning light today.  As ISS tracked over the northern tip of South Island and the strait, they were to look just left of track for this port city of nearly 400,000.  CEO staffers are seeking good views that capture the urban area in a single frame).
 
 
