
Payloads
AstroRad Vest: The crew donned the AstroRad Vest and demonstrated WHC activities while another crewmember took historical photos. A survey was completed after the demonstration. The AstroRad vest is a personal protective equipment (PPE) device which functions as a radiation shield for astronauts. The AstroRad shields astronauts from space-borne ionizing radiation in an efficient way, provides operational simplification, and allows for the use of recycled material on-board the vehicle. The concept behind the AstroRad evolved from a commercially available device, the 360 Gamma shield, made by StemRad Ltd., which is an effective wearable shield for first responders to radiation incidents on the Earth.
Confined Combustion: The crew prepare Confined Combustion samples for flame test operations, and then conducted four test sample burns with ground assistance. Confined Combustion examines the behavior of flame as it spreads in differently-shaped confined spaces in microgravity. Flame spread observations are translated into mathematical models for use in understanding the results and applying them to areas with different shapes.
Mochii: To help us further diagnose Mochii Microscope’s powering issues first experienced some time ago, the crew disconnected the Mochii Umbilical Cable, powered on Mochii systems and performed multimeter measurements on the Umbilical Cable. Of note, one of the resistance checks returned a different value than expected.  Other testing was planned, but there was not enough time to complete it.  The ground team will discuss a forward plan.  Mochii is a miniature scanning electron microscope (SEM) with spectroscopy to conduct real-time, on-site imaging and compositional measurements of particles on the International Space Station (ISS). Such particles can cause vehicle and equipment malfunctions and threaten crew health, but currently, samples must be returned to Earth for analysis, leaving crew and vehicle at risk. Mochii also provides a powerful new analysis platform to support novel microgravity science and engineering.
PBRE-WR:  The crew reviewed the procedures for the upcoming setup of the PBRE-WR experiment hardware in the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox).  PBRE-WR (Packed Bed Reactor Experiment-Water Recovery) examines flow rates of gas and liquid through a filtering substrate in the space station water processor, replacing oxygen with nitrogen. This investigation could help identify optimum conditions and enhance accuracy of models that predict simultaneous flow of gas and liquid (two-phase flow) in microgravity. 
The ISS Experience: The crew performed the setup and checkout of the ISS Experience EVA Z-Camera. The International Space Station Experience (The ISS Experience) is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station. Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew performed several activities in preparation for the upcoming IROSA Prep EVA. The crew performed an EMU swap and resize for EMU 3009 and 3015. They initiated operations on the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Batteries (LLB) and also charged the Lithium Rechargeable (EVA) Battery Assembly (LREBA). They also regenerated the EMU metal oxide (METOX) cartridges.
Eye Exams: The US crew completed routine Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; In this case, the objects of interest are the crewmember’s eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Cygnus Cargo Operations Review: the crew reviewed procedures for Cygnus cargo operations. This is in preparation for NG-15’s Launch and Birth which is currently scheduled for February 20th and February 22nd respectively.

