
Cube Satellite (CubeSat) Deploys:  After the failure to launch satellites from 2 NanoRacks CubeSat Deployers (NRCSDs) yesterday, Payload Operations Integration Center (POIC) console teams were able to confirm from photographs taken by Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata that the push-pin assemblies on all NRCSDs located on the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) were in good condition.  Two additional satellites were subsequently launched today.  Additional launches are planned for tomorrow and over the weekend, including attempts to launch again from the two deployers which failed to launch their satellites yesterday.
Ocular Health (OH) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and Fundoscope Eye Examinations: FE-3 Hopkins and FE-5 Mastracchio, alternating as Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and subject, performed OCT eye examinations.  Mastrachhio then applied drops to his eyes to dilate them and Hopkins  conducted a Fundoscope eye examination on him, with remote guidance from ground experts.  Later FE-6 Wakata performed the Fundoscope examination on Hopkins after he dilated his eyes. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment / intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Photo-Voltaic Control Unit (PVCU) Bracket Status Indicator Removal: Hopkins successfully removed the spare Photovoltaic Controller Unit (PVCU) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) Status Probe.  Measurements and photos of the probe placement inside the alignment cone indicated a risk of binding during Extravehicular Activity (EVA) installation of the PVCU MDM.  This status indicator is not a required function during an EVA installation.
Emergency Egress On-Board Training (OBT):  FE-4 Tyurin, Mastracchio, and Wakata participated in an Emergency Egress Drill this morning. The crew reviewed procedures associated with nominal and off nominal Soyuz desent scenarios.

