
Payloads:
Cardiobreath: Bio-Monitor wearable hardware was donned and calibrated and was worn for a two-hour session including a CEVIS Exercise period. Astronauts experience changes in their cardiovascular, respiratory, and musculoskeletal systems during spaceflight, which can affect their capacity to exercise and to maintain blood pressure when standing after return to Earth. Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (Cardiobreath) studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight. Results could provide a better understanding of the mechanisms of these adaptations on long-duration missions and support development of methods for assessing cardiovascular and respiratory effects on blood pressure before and after spaceflight.
Confocal Space Microscopy: The Temperature Logger was removed from the Microscope and data was transferred to the Confocal Microscope laptop for downlink. The Confocal Space Microscope (Confocal Microscope) is a JAXA facility that provides fluorescence images of biological samples aboard the ISS. Confocal microscopy uses spatial filtering techniques to eliminate out-of-focus light or glare in specimens with thicknesses exceeding the immediate plane of focus. With the Confocal Microscope, data can be obtained on the fundamental nature of cellular and tissue structure and functions in real-time.
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance (GRASP): GRASP science tasks (1 out of 3) were completed in the seated configuration. The purpose of the GRASP investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
SoundSee Mission: SoundSee acoustical data collection-4 operations were performed in order to measure the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS by taking sound level readings. Investigation of Deep Audio Analytics on the ISS (SoundSee Mission) tests monitoring of the acoustic environment using an audio sensor on Astrobee, a mobile robotic platform aboard the space station. Microphones collect acoustic information, and the Astrobee determines the sensor’s position. The system can detect anomalies in the sound of components inside a machine, providing autonomous monitoring of the health of infrastructure such as life support and exercise equipment.
Systems:
Airlock Bulkhead Corrosion Inspection Survey: An inspection and photo survey of the Airlock IV Hatch Bulkhead was performed. The crew inspected for damaged surfaces and paint degradation and did not note any surface disturbances. Photographs were downlinked for ground team review.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-18 cargo vehicle, loading items like common trash for disposal. NG-18 is planned to remain at the space station until next month before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.
Ultrasound Exam: Today the crew used the ultrasound device to perform a Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) scan.  This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams.
