
58 Progress (58P) Launch and Dock:  58P successfully launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome today at 5:00am CST.  The spacecraft then proceeded with a nominal 4 orbit rendezvous with ISS and docked to the Service Module aft port at 10:57am CST. The Progress is delivering a total of 1449 kgs of cargo to the ISS and will remain docked until August 2015.
Dynamic Surf:  Wilmore removed the cover plate from the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) in Ryutai Rack, mated the Marangoni Deformation (MD) 10 gas hoses to the FPEF and performed a position check. The crew then reinstalled the cover plate.  This activity supports the JAXA Dynamic Surf experiments.   The Dynamic Surf investigation is part of a series of JAXA experiments that examine Marangoni convection, or flow, a process driven by the presence of surface tension gradient as produced by a temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface. Fluid convection observations of a silicone oil liquid bridge that is generated by heating the one disc higher than the other within the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF). By observing and understanding how such fluids move researchers can learn about how heat is transferred in microgravity, and ultimately drive the design and development of more efficient fluid flow based systems and devices.
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD):  Wilmore performed troubleshooting on the secondary latch of NRCSD launcher #3.  During secondary latch installation and check of secondary latch functionality last week, crew reported the latch on deployer #3 was contacting the door.  Steps were taken to remove the secondary latch, check for foreign object debris, correct and confirm there is no friction or resistance to move the secondary latch in either direction.  The latch was reinstalled and crew verified there was no contact between the latch and deployer door.  Close out photos were taken and downlinked.  After troubleshooting, the crew reviewed NRCSD procedures in support of NRCSD installation on the Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) planned for Wednesday, 18 February.
Plant Rotation:   Virts removed Plant Rotation Run #1 samples from Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Incubator Unit (IU) 1G Centrifuge and took close out photos.  The crew then gathered items and began sample preparation, using a syringe to inject water into two Plant Rotation chambers, inserted them into two Plant Experiment Units (PEUs) and attached canisters to the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) for a six day incubation.  Many species of climbing plants grow upward in a spiraling shape, a process known as circumnutation. Plant organs also grow in a spiraling, helical shape. This spiraling process can take many forms, including very tight loops and broad curves. Plant Rotation verifies the hypothesis that this type of plant growth requires gravity. Scientists on the ground will study images of rice and morning glory plants growing in microgravity and simulated gravity conditions on the ISS.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation:   Wilmore, Virt, and Cristoforetti conducted a review of translation paths utilizing Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) software loads for the upcoming EVAs.  They also studied associated procedures and conducted a conference with ground specialists to answer any questions. The EVA to install International Docking Assembly (IDA) cables is scheduled for this Friday, February 20th.  The ISS Program plans to establish two docking ports on the US On-orbit Segment compatible with the International Docking System Standard (IDSS).  In the future, the docking adapters will be installed onto the existing Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)-2 and PMA3 interfaces.  Each adapter will permanently convert a passive Androgynous Peripheral Attachment System (APAS) docking interface into a passive IDSS interface.  
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fault:  Today, UPA experienced a high pressure transient fault.  Flight Controllers downlinked supplementary telemetry then restarted the system.  However, the system faulted out again soon after with the same anomalous signature.  The systems remains in standby mode while ground teams develop a forward plan.  The crew will be asked to reconfigure the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) to internal tank (EDV) tomorrow morning.

