
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): The crew performed a routine, periodic touching of two of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems, as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space for approximately six months before returning to Earth for analysis.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (CIR/SoFIE): The crew gained access to the facility and replaced the experiment sample. They also inspected other consumables such as the igniter tip and adsorber cartridge and replaced them as needed. This was performed in support of the ongoing SoFIE Growth and Extinction Limit (SoFIE-GEL) experiment series. SoFIE-GEL studies burning in microgravity by measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. Results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques, improving crew safety in future space facilities.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew began work to replace the Vision Sensor Controller (VSC) unit in the ELF. This new unit will allow greater awareness of the sample location at various areas in the experiment chamber. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt, and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. ELF is located in the Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the JEM.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): xPWD water samples were collected for routine Total Organic Carbon Analysis (TOCA) and Coliform analysis. An on-orbit PWD, launched in fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. A new system, the xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the ISS crew.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: Following a successful fiber pull yesterday, the processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the series to be processed. Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consists of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3 and 20% NaF. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The calibration cartridge was removed from the furnace, and an alternate calibration cartridge was installed. MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. By using the MSL, many material types such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
Vascular Aging and Space Health Combined Session: The crew performed the final day of the three-day experiment session, which included a Space Health questionnaire, conclusion of the blood pressure monitoring session, and the removal and stowage of the experiment hardware. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. Vascular Aging investigates indications that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: A VR Mental Care session was performed. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires via the ESA EveryWear app.
Systems:
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Piping Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew completed an R&R to replace the piping between the Pump Separator and the Dose Pump within the WHC. This activity occurs once every Expedition as preventative maintenance to avoid a WHC system compromise before it happens.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew performed cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-20 cargo vehicle. NG-20 arrived on February 1st and is scheduled to remain on the ISS until July when it will be unberthed for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. Due to its destructive re-entry, Cygnus provides an opportunity to offload some of the unwanted mass onboard the ISS.
