
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of two of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space for approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Ultrasound scans, blood pressure measurements, and pneumotonometry were performed in support of the CIPHER suite of investigations. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Circadian Light: A Circadian Light end-of-day assessment was performed in support of this continuing investigation. Circadian Light tests a new lighting system to help astronauts maintain an acceptable circadian rhythm. This can help enhance cognitive performance during a long-duration mission and help combat monotony through automated, varied, and gradually changing lighting sequences and settings.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: Following a successful fiber pull last week, the processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the series to be processed. Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consists of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3 and 20% NaF. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
Microgravity Associated Bone Loss-A (MABL-A): The crew performed the fourth set of MABL-A media exchanges and sample collections. MABL-A assesses the effects of microgravity on bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), specifically their capacity to secrete bone forming and bone dissolving cytokines (small, secreted proteins that affect other cells). MSCs produce bone-forming cells and are known to play a role in making and repairing skeletal tissues. Results could provide a better understanding of the basic molecular mechanisms of bone loss caused by spaceflight and normal aging on Earth.
NanoRacks-GITAI S2: The NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL) was cleared out to make room for later installation of the GITAI S2 hardware. Project GITAI S2’s extraveHicular multi-Objective in-Space servicing Task demonstration (GHOST) demonstrates the design, build, and operation of extravehicular robotics (EVR) systems. The research uses GITAI’s S2 2-meter class modular robotic arm. Results may facilitate future commercial lunar missions, providing the public and private sectors with robust and high-performance robotics for space stations, on-orbit services, and lunar cities.
Vascular Aging and Space Health Combined Session: Bio-Monitor donning and breath calibrations were performed, a Space Health questionnaire was filled out, and a Vascular Aging 13-hour blood pressure session was initiated. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. Vascular Aging investigates indications that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries.
Systems:
Node 3 Stowage Operations: The crew performed various stowage activities to prepare for the upcoming GITAI S2 Robotic Arm Tech Demo operations. These activities included Pressure Management Device (PMD) configuration for depressurization monitoring and a Node 3 Endcone Stowage Cleanout.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: The crew performed a monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screen tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking, and spatial processing.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
