
ISS HAM Pass: The crew participated in the contact with College Park School, Lloydminster, Alberta, Canada. The students ranged from grade 1 to 8 and the questions involved astronaut experiences during launch, interactions with families, working on the ISS, etc. ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Team Task Switching (TTS) Experiment Survey: The crew completed a Team Task Switching Survey using the Data Collection Tool on a Station Support Computer. The objective of the TTS investigation is to gain knowledge about whether or not crewmembers have difficulty in switching tasks, and apply the results to both the reduction of any negative consequences and improvement of individual and team motivation and effectiveness.
Two-Phase Flow 2 Laptop Setup: The crew relocated the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) laptop to a suitable area around the MSPR. Following this, the appropriate power cable and Local Area Network (LAN) cable connections were made. This is being performed as part of the preparation for the future Two-Phase Flow 2 investigation. The Two-Phase Flow experiment investigates the heat transfer characteristics of flow boiling in the microgravity environment. This experiment provides a fundamental understanding of the behaviors of bubble formation, liquid-vapor flow in a tube, and how heat is transferred in cooling systems.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Lab and JEM Refill: The crew used the FSS to add ITCS coolant to the Lab Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) accumulator and Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) ITCS Low and Moderate Temperature Loops. Once the refills were completed, they drained and stowed the FSS and associated jumpers.
Nitrogen (N2) / Oxygen (O2) Recharge System (NORS) Tank Installation: Today the crew installed a NORS O2 tank, mated the O2 Fill Hose to the NORS Manifold, and initiated a gas transfer to the High Pressure O2 System.

