
Ocular Health Testing:  Today Kelly and Kornienko, with Kopra as the operator, completed their Return minus 30 day (R-30) Ocular Health testing by performing ocular and cardiac ultrasound scans.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Max:  For his Flight Day 60 Sprint VO2 Max session, Kopra attached Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes to himself, set up and don Heart Rate Monitor hardware, performed Portable Pulmonary Function System calibrations, and then performed the VO2 protocol.  The Sprint VO2 investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers while reducing total exercise time during long-duration space missions
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003 Fan Pump Separator Remove and Replace (R&R) Part 2:  Following yesterday’s EMU 3003 FPS R&R, Kelly and Peake primed the new pump and prepared the EMU for a return to service checkout scheduled on Monday.  Tomorrow, the faulty pump will be packed for return onboard Soyuz 44 next month for ground examination.   The FPS which was removed had failed to start up during an activity to fill the Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garment (LCVG) in December.
 
Orbital ATK (OA)-4 Cargo Operations:  Kopra transferred trash into the Cygnus vehicle today in preparation for its unberth and release on February 19th.
 
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPs) Inspection:  Peake conducted an audit of the PEPs hardware and verified the emergency response equipment was in the expected location and is free of damage.  Among the items inspected were Water Mist Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) including Quick Don mask Assemblies (QDMAs) and Pre-Breathe Masks.
 
Condensate Water Separator Assembly (CWSA) Desiccant Module R&R:   Kopra utilized the 3D Visual Trainer (3D ViT) in order to familiarize himself with the CWSA Desiccant Module inspection and R&R task within Columbus.  Once the training was complete, he proceeded with the inspection and Desiccant Module R&R.  The Desiccant Module is placed inside the CWSA in order to provide a dry atmosphere and prevent condensation on the cold outer surfaces of the water separator housing/parts. The module is inspected and replaced as part of preventative maintenance.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  This evening, Robotics Flight Controllers will be stowing the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on the Mobile Base System (MBS), and walking off the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) from the MBS power and data grapple fixture (PDGF)-1 to the Node2 PDGF. Once the walk off is complete, they will grapple Cygnus in preparation for its unberth and release on February 19th.
 
 

