ISS On-Orbit Status 02/18/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      Saturday – Crew rest day.
 
After wakeup this morning, CDR Burbank, FE-5 Kuipers &amp; FE-6 Pettit each completed another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, the 29<sup>th</sup> for Dan, the 23<sup>rd</sup> for André &amp; Don.     [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
After breakfast, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-6 Pettit serviced the running BCAT-6 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-6) by replacing the BCAT-6 battery early in the morning with a fresh one and repeating the replacement about 8 hrs later.  Sample 4 session reached its midpoint on 2/15.       [The NIKON D2Xs with EarthKAM software running on an SSC laptop takes automated flash photography controlled by the software, photographing Sample 4 once every two hours for seven days.  Crew performs two camera battery changes and a camera check each day. The camera battery changes are scheduled to be performed approximately every 8 hours per Mike Fossum’s recommendation during past BCAT-6 activities.]
 
After yesterday’s Part 2 of MARES (Muscle Atrophy Resistive Exercise System) Commissioning, FE-5 Kuipers today relocated items removed in preparation of MARES deployment back to their original locations on the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) deck rack front.       [This included all bags, the MARES (Dynamometer, MARES EPM HD (European Physiology Module High Definition), WS2 Ethernet cable, Ziploc bag with 3 connector caps and the mainbox.]
 
Later, André performed his 2<sup>nd</sup> session with the MedOps psychological evaluation experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.       [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]
 
CDR Burbank, FE-1 Shkaplerov, FE-2 Ivanishin, FE-4 Kononenko, FE-5 Kuipers &amp; FE-6 Pettit joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Anton, Anatoly &amp; Oleg completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) and the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille in the SM.
 
Dan Burbank conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.
 
Shkaplerov completed the standard purging &amp; inerting of the SrPK (air supply tankage) Section 2 of Progress 46P (M-14M) by charging it with N<sub>2</sub> (nitrogen).    [46P is scheduled for undocking on 4/19.] 
 
Afterwards, Anton &amp; Oleg had ~1 h for inspecting and stowing the Orlan-MK spacesuit equipment used in the EVA-30 on 2/16.      [This included the BK-3 oxygen bottles,.LP-9 absorber cartridges, the USZ (ORU) kit with VO separator, FOR-4, BOS-1 &amp; IK filters and UdP drink containers, BK-10 underwear, MAGs, socks, 5PT containers, the ZIP-2M kit with the GP-10KM gloves, and the Orlan-MK suits.]
 
Anatoly meanwhile performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Kononenko terminated the discharge process on the first Orlan 825M3 battery pack and started it on the second pack.
 
At ~7:45am EST, the six crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~9:25am, Burbank &amp; Pettit conducted a phone conference with the PLUTO flight control team, discussing automated SSC (Station Support Computer) client reboots with the OpsLAN specialists.
 
FE-4 &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Oleg at ~7:00am, Don at ~11:55am EST.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6, and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).
 
WRM Update:     A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (29-0008K) lists 23 CWCs (363.9 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (4 CWCs with 143.3 L, for Elektron electrolysis, all containing Wautersia bacteria, plus 1 empty bag;  2. Condensate water (2 CWCs with 9.8 L, plus 2 empty bags);  3. Iodinated water (6 CWCs with 79.9 L; also 6 expired bags with 104.3 L);  4. Waste water (1 bag with 6.4 L EMU waste water); and  5. Special fluid (1 CWC with 20.2 L, hose/pump flush).  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
Conjunction Update:   Flight controllers continue to monitor a conjunction with Object 29423 (Chinese CZ-4B DEB) with a TCA (Time of Closest Approach) on 2/19 at 4:02pm EST.  The conjunction is currently considered of Low Concern.  The decision point (Go/NoGo for maneuver data Cyclogram development) is tonight (2/18) at 4:32pm, for a DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) tomorrow (2/19) at 4:02pm EST, if required. 
 

