
Marrow: Today the crew collected breath, ambient air, and blood samples in support of the Marrow investigation.  Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow. One of the impacts seen on the ground is fat cells growing at the expense of blood-producing cells during prolonged stays in bed.  Blood-producing cells share the same confined space with fat cells within the bone marrow.
Fluid Shifts: The crew performed a repeat of the Fluid Shifts Chibis imaging session originally performed on 21-January-2019. The 21-January session experienced firewall-related video issues on the ground which resulted in a loss of ~33% of the science.  Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging with Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure). The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Six-Month Maintenance: The crew completed the 6-month T2 inspection. During this task, the crew inspects the treadbelt slats and screws, cleans the treadmill drive shaft, and vacuums inside the rack and around the treadmill. An unmanned activation and checkout was completed succesfully. Engineering reviewed the data from this checkout and T2 is a Go for operations.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday afternoon, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the LAB Power and Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF). Then the SSRMS released Node 2 PDGF and the SSRMS was positioned for the MRM1 survey. At the same time, additional imagery was obtained for the Node 1 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Bolt 1-3. Once the MRM1 inspection was completed, the team maneuvered the arm to grapple Node 2 PDGF and released LAB PDGF, then parked the SSRMS and powered it down.

