
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Maintenance: The adsorbent material (Zeolite) inside the CDRA beds breaks down over time and creates dust.  This dust eventually reduces airflow through the beds to the point where CDRA can no longer operate.  The Node 3 CDRA has newer generation beds that can be disassembled and serviced on orbit.  The Lab CDRA, however, still has older generation beds that cannot be serviced on orbit and are near end of life.  Today, the crew removed Lab CDRA from the rack, and disassembled it by removing all of the valves and ducting to access the beds. During the removal of the CDRA from the rack, the original power cable (P12) that connects the ASVs to the Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) was left mated in one location and the cable was severed. Teams are looking into the issue. The crew also removed the old beds from Lab CDRA. Lab CDRA will be left in this configuration overnight. Tomorrow, the crew will replace the beds with the newer generation beds, like those in Node 3 CDRA. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Suit Maintenance: The crew performed routine maintenance tasks on EMU 3003 and EMU 3010 including a loop scrub, a post-loop scrub water sample, suit and ion filter iodination and an EMU conductivity test.
Rodent Research Status Check: This morning, the crew conducted a conference with ground teams then collected necessary equipment for tomorrow’s Habitat Restocking activities. The Tissue Regeneration-Bone Defect (RR-4) studies what prevents vertebrates such as rodents and humans from regrowing lost bone and tissue, and how the microgravity extraterrestrial condition impacts the process. Results could lead to tissue regeneration efforts in space and a better understanding of limitations of limb regrowth at wound sites. 
Microgravity Expanded Stem Cells (MESC) Microscope Operations: The crew removed a BioCell from the Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory-2 (SABL2) and placed it on the microscope stage configured outside the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). The crew worked with ground specialist to image areas of the BioCell plate.  Following the focused imaging, the crew reinserted the BioCell back into the SABL. MESC will aid researches determine the efficiency of using a microgravity environment to accelerate expansion (replication) of stem cells for use in terrestrial clinical trials for treatment of disease.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Overnight, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to stow the Optical PAyload for Lasercomm Science (OPALS) on the SPDM Enhanced Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Temporary Platform (EOTP).  They then handed the Space Test Program – Houston 5 (STP-H5) payload from SPDM Arm 2 to Arm 1.  This was done to switch from having Orbital Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism 2 (OTCM2) providing keep alive power to the STP-H5 to having OTCM1 grasping the STP-H5 Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) so that the STP-H5 could be installed on EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Logistics Carrier 1 (ELC1).  After the STP-H5 had been installed, the SSRMS and SPDM were maneuvered to a Mobile Transporter (MT) translation configuration.  MSS performance was nominal.
Space Test Program – Houston 5 (STP-H5) Activation:  The STP-H5 payload was installed on ELC-1 and successfully activated, one day earlier than originally planned.  Initial data indicates that the STP-H5 equipment is healthy.  Activation of individual experiment packages is ongoing. STP-H5 is an EXpedite PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Pallet Adapter Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (ExPA-FRAM) based payload consisting of 13 individual experiments ranging from technology demonstrations to space and terrestrial weather measuring and monitoring.  The experiments are provided and operated by the Department of Defense (DoD) and NASA agencies.

