
Payloads:
Echo: The Echo hardware was retrieved and deployed in the Columbus Module in preparation for routine maintenance activities. Echo is a tele-operated ultrasound system, equipped with motorized probes that are controlled by flight controllers on the ground. The flight controller hardware expert on Earth controls the fine movements of the probes, and receives high quality images for analysis. This hardware is used to support various investigations including Myotones and Vascular Echo.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): In support of day 1 of the 3-day High Speed Camera installation, the crew closed the Argon gas valve. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in Kibo.
Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones): Samples were collected in support of the Myotones investigation. The Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g., muscle tone, stiffness, and elasticity) during long-term exposure to spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth, as well as for future space missions.
NanoRacks External Platform represents (NREP): The NREP facility was removed from the JEM airlock slide table, and External Module-15 was removed from the NREP facility. Module-15 was packed for later return to the ground, and the NREP facility was stowed in the NanoRacks Airlock pressurized volume. NREP is the first external commercial research capability for the testing of scientific investigations, sensors, and electronic components in space. The NanoRacks External Platform is installed, on a payload required basis, on the outside of the ISS on the Japanese Experiment Module – External Facility (JEM-EF) using Nanoracks, LLC’s proven integration/transportation system.
Sphere Camera-1 (SphereCam-1): SphereCam-1 was used to record NanoRacks External Platform (NREP) removal from the JEM Airlock slide table. SphereCam-1 uses a commercial off-the-shelf ultra-high resolution digital movie camera with a wide-angle lens to collect footage in microgravity and evaluate technical performance of the camera. Investigators plan to use results to design and develop subsequent cameras for testing and, ultimately, provide a product that could support groundbreaking imaging of space with greater resolution, detail, and sharpness than anything currently available commercially.
Systems:
82P Undocking: On Friday night, the Russian cargo vehicle, 82 Progress (82P), undocked from the ISS MRM2 zenith port at 8:26 PM CT. Following undock, a 180-degree roll maneuver and subsequent video survey were performed to inspect the vehicle after a leak of the external thermal control system occurred on February 11th. MCC-M moved the planned deorbit burn from Friday to Saturday night to gather additional vehicle data based on thermal performance. The deorbit burn occurred at 10:15 PM CT followed by atmospheric entry and destruction. Progress telemetry was lost at 10:47 PM CT on Saturday and burn up occurred shortly thereafter.
ISS Reboost: Last night, the ISS performed a reboost using the Aft Progress 83P research and design thrusters. The purpose of this reboost was to set up proper phasing conditions for the upcoming Soyuz 69S launch on Thursday, February 23rd, and was also the first of two reboosts to set up conditions for Soyuz 68S landing in March. The burn duration was 15 minutes 28 seconds with a delta-V of 1.8 m/s.
NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL) Ingress: An NRAL ingress was performed to support NanoRacks External Platform (NREP) stowage in NRAL after removal from the JEM airlock, and removal of specified items from NRAL for disposal or return.
RS Water Transfers: Per documented agreements between NASA and IP Russia, the crew continues to transfer water from the USOS to the RS. Surplus water in the USOS was transferred from the Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) to an ЕДВ. An ЕДВ is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities.
