ISS On-Orbit Status 02/23/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
After breakfast, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
FE-6 Pettit started his workday with Day 4 of his 3<sup>rd</sup> (FD60) suite of sessions with the controlled Pro K diet protocol (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.  In addition to recording his diet input, Don began the associated 24-hr urine collections and later set up the equipment for the blood sampling which follows tomorrow.       [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD370, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day (science sessions are often referred to by Flight Day 15, 30, 60, etc.  However, there are plus/minus windows associated with these time points so a “Flight Day 15” science session may not actually fall on the crewmember’s 15<sup>th</sup> day on-orbit).  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  On Days 4 &amp; 5, urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
FE-5 Kuipers started his 3<sup>rd</sup> (FD60) Pro K session, with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.
 
FE-4 Kononenko took his 2<sup>nd</sup> MBI-24 “SPRUT-2” (“Squid-2”) test, part of Russian medical research on the distribution and behavior of human body fluids in zero gravity, along with PZEh-MO-8 BMM (body mass measurement) using the IM device.       [Supported by the RSS-Med A31p laptop with new software (Vers. 1.6) in the SM, the test uses the Profilaktika kit, with data recorded on PCMCIA memory cards, along with Oleg’s body mass values and earlier recorded MO-10 Hematocrit value, but skipping “fat fold” measurements.  Experiment requisites are the Sprut securing harness, skin electrodes (cuffs), and RSS-Med for control and data storage.  The “Pinguin” suit or Braslet-M cuffs, if worn, have to be taken off first.  Electrode measurements are recorded at complete rest and relaxed body position.  The actual recording takes 3-5 minutes, during which the patient has to remain at complete rest.]
 
Afterwards, Oleg conducted the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP (Harmful Impurities Removal System) by starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #1 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated at ~4:05pm EST.  Bed #2 regeneration will be done tomorrow.       [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods.  The BMP’s regeneration cycle, normally done every 20 days, is currently performed four times more frequently (last time: 2/6 &amp; 2/7).]
 
CDR Burbank installed the three PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) lock-down alignment guides on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) at Lab bay S3, engaged the snubber pins and locked safety pins to protect its ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) from external loading (dynamic disturbances).
 
Next, Burbank initiated charging of two camcorder batteries for tomorrow’s scheduled NightPOD operations.  After a minimum charge duration of 3 hrs, the batteries were to be temporarily stowed in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory).        [NightPOD is an “intelligent” tripod head developed as a one-of-a-kind product for mounting and accurately tracking a camcorder (or single-lens reflex camera) in the Node-3/Cupola.  André Kuipers will be using it for taking high-resolution imagery Earth on the dark side of the orbit, i.e., while in the sun’s shadow.]
 
After Dan had activated the PFA (Portable Fan Assembly) for THC (Temperature &amp; Humidity Control) in the Node-2 vestibule to allow air to flow from Node-2 into COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Kuipers adjusted the VCA2 (Video Camera Assembly 2) for video coverage and continued the extensive cleanup of the COL ventilation systems started yesterday, i.e., CFA1 (Cabin Fan Assembly 1) and ventilation ducts.     [Activities involved removal, inspection with the fiberscope and cleaning with the vacuum cleaner of CFA1, inlet muffler and check valve plus inspecting duct paths ‘A’ and ‘C’.]
 
Burbank assisted André in COL with fiberscoping the ducts and tilting the D1 rack forward for cleaning.  At completion of COL CFA activities, FE-5 deactivated and tore down the PFA setup.
 
In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Don Pettit conducted a session with the CFE-2 VG2 (Capillary Flow Experiments 2 / Vane Gap 2) experiment, first preparing the MWA WSA (Work Surface Area) and then running the 2-hr test with the VG2 “B” vessel.  The session was recorded on HD (high definition) video, and the equipment was afterwards torn down and stowed away.     [CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  VG1 is one of three CFE experiments, the others being ICF (Interior Corner Flow) and CL (Contact Line).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]  
 
Shkaplerov &amp; Ivanishin joined up for half an hour of preparation &amp; execution of a session with the Russian experimental OBR-5 (Obrazovanie-5, Education 5) project VELIKOE NACHALO (“Great Beginning”), which addresses uplinked questions and comments from the Russian public on matters concerning human space flight, today using the Sony HVR-Z7 camcorder #1 to focus on Russian individual protection equipment for radiation and methods to control received radiation level.        [Goal of this experiment is to develop a method to promote the accomplishments of national piloted cosmonautics using digital IT (information technology), for which RSC Energia has created a “Planet Korolev” website (<a href="http://gagarin.energia.ru/">http://gagarin.energia.ru/</a> ).  The public inputs were/are the results of a questionnaire on this website.  One interesting comment was the suggestion to create an Internet portal on which all still living participants of the first human space flight post their recollections.  “This it is must to our descendants.”]
 
Later, Ivanishin collected the periodic air samples in the RS (Russian Segment), using a Russian AK-1M absorber in the SM &amp; FGB for air, and IPD-CO Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the SM cabin air for CO (Carbon Monoxide).
 
Kononenko conducted the periodic task of tightening the BZV quick release screw clamps of the SSVP docking mechanism on the MRM1/FGB docking interface, on the MRM1 side.
 
FE-2 &amp; FE-4 continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, with Anatoly changing out the cartridges of the four dust filters (PF1-4) in the SM, discarding the used cartridges, and Oleg cleaning “Group B” fan screens in the MRM1 “Rassvet” module.
 
Working ~2.5 hrs in the SM, Kononenko removed 8 light units (2 type SD1-7, 4 type SR-2, 2 type SPR-1) and their fuses for disposal in Progress 46P.  The SD1-7 and SPT-1 lamps were then replaced with new spares.  The four SR-2 lights will be replaced tomorrow.
 
Shkaplerov completed remaining IFM (Inflight Maintenance) tasks after yesterday’s TVIS chassis replacement, including disassembling and stowing remaining components not used on the new chassis, and conducting ACO (Activation &amp; Checkout) by performing an unmanned speed characterization test to ensure that the motorized TVIS components are performing nominally.       [Video of the activities was then downlinked via MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) routing.]
 
In the DC1, Anton afterwards transferred urine from three EDV-U containers (881, 983, 997) to the Progress 46P BV1 Rodnik tank using the usual pumping equipment with the electric compressor (#41), followed by a line flush with water from EDV 1042 (5 L).  The BV1 bladder was checked for leak-tightness on 1/13.
 
Ivanishin &amp; Shkaplerov took the (approx.) monthly O-OHA (On-Orbit Hearing Assessment) test, their 2<sup>nd</sup>, a 30-min NASA environmental health systems examination to assess the efficacy of acoustic countermeasures, using a special software application on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.        [The O-OHA audiography test involves minimum audibility measurements for each ear over a wide range of frequencies (0.25-10 kHz) and sound pressure levels, with the crewmembers using individual-specific Prophonics earphones, new Bose ANC headsets (delivered on 30P) and the SLM (sound level meter).  To conduct the testing, the experimenter is supported by special EarQ software on the MEC, featuring an up/down-arrow-operated slider for each test frequency that the crewmember moves to the lowest sound pressure level at which the tone can still be heard.  The baseline test is required not later than about Flight Day 14 for each new Expedition and is then generally performed once per month.  Note: There has been temporary hearing deficits documented on some U.S. and Russian crewmembers, all of which recovered to pre-mission levels.]
 
Dan had 2.5 hrs set aside on his timeline to clean the AR (Atmosphere Revitalization) bacteria filters in the three Nodes, the Lab and the A/L (Airlock).      [This cleaning will be done every Thursday for the next four weeks to determine if this helps get ahead of the dust accumulation noted by the crew.  Since the bacteria filter cleanings are done separately, they do not have to be included in the weekly uborka housekeeping on Saturday.] 
 
The CDR also dealt with the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) which became full and unable to accept more urine from the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment).  Dan reconfigured the WHC to use the internal EDV-U instead, to remain on it until after tomorrow’s scheduled RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) change-out.
 
André conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.       [The current card (29-0008K) lists 23 CWCs (363.9 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (4 CWCs with 143.3 L, for Elektron electrolysis, all containing Wautersia bacteria, plus 1 empty bag;  2. Condensate water (2 CWCs with 9.8 L, plus 2 empty bags);  3. Iodinated water (6 CWCs with 79.9 L; also 6 expired bags with 104.3 L);  4. Waste water (1 bag with 6.4 L EMU waste water); and  5. Special fluid (1 CWC with 20.2 L, hose/pump flush).  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
Anatoly completed 8<sup>th</sup> data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.       [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
Later, Ivanishin conducted another 30-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Pacific, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.
 
FE-2 also broke out and set up the equipment for another session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis, scheduled tomorrow for Anton, Oleg, André and himself.        [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s /special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]
 
Dan had another time slot reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on the personal SSC (Station Support Computer).     [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
At ~4:00pm EST, the CDR is scheduled for the periodic VHF-1 emergency communications proficiency check over NASA’s VHF (Very High Frequency) stations, today with the VHF site at DRY/Dryden (4:01:33pm-4:07:26pm), for a voice check with Houston/Capcom, MSFC/PAYCOM (Payload Operation &amp; Integration Center Communicator), Moscow/GLAVNI (TsUP Capcom), EUROCOM/Munich and JCOM/Tsukuba in the normal fashion via VHF radio from a handheld microphone and any of the USOS ATUs (Audio Terminal Units).        [Purpose of the test is to verify signal reception and link integrity, improve crew proficiency, and ensure minimum required link margin during emergency (no TDRS) and special events (such as a Soyuz relocation).]
 
Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Dan was to turn MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Before sleeptime, the CDR also closes the protective window shutters in the Lab, Node-3/Cupola and JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) in preparation for ground-commanded SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) and SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator) activities tonight and tomorrow night to perform surveys of the FGB.
 
Also before sleeptime, Kononenko will prepare the Russian MBI-12 payload and start his 3<sup>rd</sup> Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.  Anton will be taking documentary photography.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
In addition, Oleg will set up the battery of the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment for overnight charging.      [By means of the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka-MV-Kosmos” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and SONY HVR-Z7 HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #9, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycled ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5, FE-6),  ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).    
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Delhi, India (CAPITAL CITIES COLLECTION.    Looking left of track for this Indian megacity.  Overlapping context frames of the Delhi metropolitan area and surroundings were requested), Addis Ababa, Ethiopia (CAPITAL CITIES COLLECTION.    Looking just left for this city of 3.4 million.  Lead-in visual cues are:  lakes of the Rift Valley, and then a few remaining forest patches next to the city), Jerusalem, Israel (CAPITAL CITIES COLLECTION.    Nadir pass over the first of two close-spaced Middle East cities.  Greater Jerusalem has a population over just over 1 million), Amman, Jordan (CAPITAL CITIES COLLECTION.    Looking right for this target, the second of two close-spaced Middle East cities.  Greater Amman has a population over just over 2.84 million), SW Glaciers of the S. Patagonian Glacier Field (looking left and right of track for the target glaciers.  Mapping coverage was requested), and Panama City, Panama (CAPITAL CITIES COLLECTION.    Looking left for this city of 890,000.  Weather was as good as it gets for this usually cloudy target).
 

