
66 Progress (66P) Docking: The Progress MS-05 (66P) rendezvous and docking to ISS Docking Compartment (DC)-1 nadir port was completed successfully in the automated mode.  The docking capture time was 055/08:29:50 GMT (2:35 am CDT).  Following hatch opening the crew transferred early unstow and US cargo items. 
Rodent Research-4 (RR-4) Operations: The crew conduced a conference with ground specialists prior to tomorrow’s RR-4 transfer and operations. Tissue Regeneration-Bone Defect (RR-4) studies what prevents vertebrates such as rodents and humans from regrowing lost bone and tissue, and how the microgravity extraterrestrial condition impacts the process. Results could lead to tissue regeneration efforts in space and a better understanding of limitations of limb regrowth at wound sites. 
Microgravity Expanded Stem Cells (MESC) Microscope Operations: Yesterday, the five MESC BioCell Habitats were placed into Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL)1 for temperature control until CO2 incubator was installed in SABL2 and checked out.  Early today the BioCell habitats were moved to SABL2.  Shortly after the transfer, ground teams noticed that SABL2 had slightly higher CO2 levels. The calibration constants were updated and SABL2 is now operating within nominal limits.  The crew has transferred the BioCells to the microscope to image the cells and capture points of interest to payload developers.  Once imaging was completed the BioCell habitats were returned to SABL2.  MESC will aid researches determine the efficiency of using a microgravity environment to accelerate expansion (replication) of stem cells for use in terrestrial clinical trials for treatment of disease.
SpaceX-10 (SpX-10) Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued unpacking the vehicle and stowing items on ISS. They completed approximately 4.75 hours of cargo operations this morning. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today, Ground Controllers will configure the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) for external Dragon cargo operations. They will unstow Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and setup for Space Test Program-H5 (STP-H5) extraction from the Dragon trunk. They also will perform a Dragon Trunk Camera checkout and Dragon Trunk cargo survey.
Ku-Band Telemetry Loss – The Joint Station Lan 2 (JSL2) forward and return links were lost this morning. Ground teams attempted to power cycle the Network (N2) Card twice with no joy, which lead to the conclusion that the Ku Communications Unit 1 (KCU1) could not be commanded.  Extended telemetry was lost as well. The ground was still receiving video and Space to Ground (S/G) audio downlinks 3 and 4, however they were unable to make any changes to them.  The entire Integrated Communications Unit (ICU) was power cycled. Ku Communications Unit 1 (KCU1) was restored and is working nominally and Ku-Band functionality, including video and voice, was restored.  However the Ku IP services through JSL2 were not recovered and Payload Developers (PDs) reported they were unable to send commands.  The JSL2 forward link issue appears to be ground based and teams are still evaluating.

