ISS On-Orbit Status 02/21/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      Underway:  Week 14 of Increment 26. US Holiday:  Washington’s Birthday/Presidents’ Day.
 
FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dmitri will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
FE-6 Coleman undertook her 10<sup>th</sup> weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.  The required ~10h fast period started for her last night.       [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.] 
 
FE-5 Nespoli updated his daily diet log for his 5<sup>th</sup> six-day session for the SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) experiment, which entails diet intake loggings (low salt diet), body mass measurements and blood &amp; urine samplings.  Today’s activities, besides diet logging, involved taking blood samples for PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer) analysis and preservation in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) as well as starting 24-hr urine collections.        [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Paolo is ingesting special diet (Session 1 – High salt diet which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level, Session 2 – Low salt diet.  SOLO Diet starts with breakfast on Day 1.  Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are logged daily on sheets stowed in the PCBA Consumable Kit in the MELFI along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) on Days 4 &amp; 6.  Blood samples are taken on Day 5, centrifuged &amp; inserted in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) and also measured with the PCBA.  24-hr urine collections are performed on Day 5, with sample insertion in MELFI.    Background:   SOLO, a NASA/ESA-German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 &amp; MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]
 
Nespoli also started his 2<sup>nd</sup> session (of 3 total) with the JAXA experiment “Biological Rhythms” (BIORHYTHMS), for which he donned the electrodes of the DWH (Digital Walk Holter) for ECG (electrocardiogram) recording, then initiated the data take for the next 24 hrs.
 
FE-1 Kaleri’s morning inspection today included the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM (Service Module) on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
After finishing the outfitting of the Node-2 Zenith/HTV2 (H-II Transfer Vehicle 2) vestibule by removing the thermal blanket and the CBM CPAs (Common Berthing Mechanism / Controller Panel Assemblies), CDR Kelly &amp; FE-6 Coleman opened the hatch to the HTV PLC (Pressurized Logistics Carrier) and ingressed the cargo ship along with FE-5 Nespoli.
 
Alex Kaleri &amp; Oleg Skripochka spent 2 hrs in “their” 24S Descent Module (#701) to conduct a refresher Soyuz descent drill, preparatory to the Flyabout maneuver planned for 3/5 to acquire external documentary/historical photography of the entire ISS stack.  Scott Kelly will join them on that excursion.  The exercise was accompanied by a conference with ground specialists at TsUP/Moscow.      [The session included a review of the pertinent ODFs (operational data files), specifically the books on Soyuz Ascent &amp; Descent Procedures, Emergency Descents, and Off-Nominal Situations, crew responsibilities when executing the flight program, visual crew recognition of SUS (Entry Control System) failures, spacesuit procedures, etc., with special emphasis on operations with the Neptune-ME cockpit console.  The training used a Descent Simulator application (Trenasher Spusk =”descent trainer”) on the RSK1 laptop.]
 
Dmitri Kondratyev meanwhile performed a 2-hr. audit of medical kits, a total of 34 in SM and MRM2 medlockers, including replacing some medications with fresh supplies.
 
Afterwards, FE-4 tightened the BZV quick release screw clamps of the SSVP docking mechanism on the MRM1/Soyuz 25S docking interface, a periodic task.
 
Kondratyev &amp; Skripochka closed out recent EVA-28 activities by restoring the SM PkhO (Transfer Compartment) and DC1 Docking Compartment to their original configuration.
 
FE-6 Coleman retrieved and stowed remaining US EVA tools used during the Russian spacewalk.
 
On the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the US Lab, Nespoli removed the 4 alignment guides to allow PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be activated before begin of CIR operations requiring a microgravity environment.      [Of 34 total research racks on the ISS (not counting Russian experiment sites), 13 are in the US Lab, 11 in JAXA’s Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) and 10 in ESA’s COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory).  5 racks each of JPM and COL are NASA-shared.]
 
Kaleri had ~45 min set aside to prepare equipment required for first ingress in the European ATV2 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 2) after its docking, including AK-1MK and IPD air sample kits, atmosphere purification filter assembly and Russian vacuum cleaner. 
 
In the SM, Alex afterwards collected KAV condensate water samples from the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor (water recovery system) upstream of the FGS gas/liquid mixture filter/separator in an empty drink bag, a periodic check on the performance of the FGS, then changed out sampler &amp; separator and collected KAV samples from upstream of the SRV-K2M BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.  The sampling equipment was then disassembled and discarded.
 
Later, Kaleri &amp; Nespoli got together for a 45-min ATV Approach &amp; Docking OBT (Onboard Training) run, supported by ground specialist tagup.      [Using the AOT (ATV Onboard Trainer) software on the crew support T61p laptop RSK-1, an off-nominal situations table, range rulers and timer, Alex &amp; Paolo practiced crew actions in the event of an off-nominal situation while monitoring rendezvous and docking, refreshed rendezvous and docking monitoring skills, and practiced crew interaction during rendezvous and docking monitoring.  The AOT software shows a simulated zoomable image of the orbital region of approach with a target zone and the ATV as it closes in on the ISS.  For controlling manual approaches (should they be required), the AOT provides simulated control panel images for the ATV and for the SM Simvol-Ts television display, plus text displays for station clock time and approach parameters (distance, velocities, etc.), similar to the TORU OBT.]
 
Oleg Skripochka broke out and set up the equipment for a session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis, to be taken tomorrow by himself, Kaleri, Kondratyev &amp; Nespoli.       [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]
 
CDR Kelly turned off and disconnected the SSC20 (Station Support Computer 20) laptop, then staged it in Node-2 (loc. O2) for transfer to STS-133/ULF5 after hatch opening.
 
Kelly performed another module data take on the CubeLab and transferred files of collected data to laptop for downlink.  After reviewing instructional material for the subsequent steps, Scott then set up the camcorder for documentary recording and activated 24 liquid mixing assemblies within CubeLab Module 9.      [CubeLab is a low-cost 1-kg platform for educational projects.  It is a multipurpose research facility that interfaces small standard modules into the ERs (EXPRESS Racks).  The modules can be used within the pressurized space station environment in orbit, with a nominal length, width, and height of 100 mm and a mass of no more than 1 g.  Up to 16 CubeLab modules can be inserted into a CubeLab insert inside an ER.]
 
Later, the CDR fully engaged the lower left ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) snubber safety pin at the FIR (Fluids Integration Rack) in the Lab which had been noted on the ground to be not fully engaged.      [ARIS is designed to isolate payload racks from vibration.  The ARIS is an active electromechanical damping system attached to a standard rack that senses the vibratory environment with accelerometers and then damps it by introducing a compensating (counter-reacting) force.]
 
Afterwards, Scott replaced the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) toilet pre-treat tank (E-K) and the pre-treat tank hose with fresh spares.    [The E-K tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, i.e., a mix of H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> (sulfuric acid), CrO<sub>3</sub> (chromium oxide, for oxidation and purple color), and H<sub>2</sub>O (water).  The pre-treat liquid is mixed with water in a dispenser (DKiV) and used for toilet flushing.]
 
After the overnight charging of the Piren battery, Alex &amp; Oleg used the Russian KPT-12 payload with its BAR science instruments suite for another 1h 50m run to determine the efficiency of using the Piren-B pyroendoscope to inspect microconditions of window glazing at the two DC1 windows VL1 &amp; VL2.   Data were logged and downlinked via OCA.     [Objective of the Russian KPT-12/BAR science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Piren-B is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Besides KPT-2 Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
Dmitri Kondratyev performed a verification check on the overnight automated IUS anti-virus scans on the Russian VKS auxiliary laptops, performed the manual anti-virus update on the non-networked machines, and initiated &amp; monitored the AV scan on the RSS2 and RSE-Med laptops.     
 
FE-4 also readied the hardware for the Russian geophysics experiment DZZ-12 Rusalka (“Mermaid”) and charged its AIP-01 battery for another observation session.
 
With Nespoli assisting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer), Kaleri undertook the periodic (generally monthly) health test with the cardiological experiment PZEh MO-1 (“Study of the Bioelectric Activity of the Heart at Rest”) on the TVIS exercise equipment, his 4<sup>th</sup> session.      [Equipment used was VPG/Temporal Pulsogram and 8-channel ECG/Electrocardiogram Data Output Devices (USI).  The test took place during an RGS (Russian Groundsite) overflight window (~10:06am EST) via VHF for data downlink from the VPG and Gamma-1M ECG for about 5-6 minutes.]
 
Cady Coleman performed routine service on the WRS (Water Recovery System) by offloading the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) storage tank from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Auxiliary port to a CWC-I (Contingency Water Containers-Iodine) bag.  The PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) could not be used during the offloading.      [Estimated offload time: 23 min; desired offloaded amount: ~20.4 L.]
 
At ~10:50am EST, Cady &amp; Paolo tagged up with ground specialists to critique/discuss the ground-analyzed 400 &amp; 800mm-lens photo/video training imagery that had resulted from their last RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) drill on 2/10.     [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the Shuttle (STS-133/Discovery/ULF5) on 2/26.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Discovery, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]
 
Kondratyev handled the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Dima also conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
CDR &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Scott at ~7:44am, Cady at ~10:50am EST.
 
The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1/2x, FE-2/2x, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

