
87 Progress (87P) Docking: Following the completion of a 34-orbit rendezvous, 87P successfully docked to the SM aft port on Saturday, February 17th, at 6:06 AM CST. On Sunday, the crew then performed leak checks, opened hatches, and began unloading cargo. Carrying food, fuel, and supplies, 87P launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome on Wednesday, February 14th at 9:25 PM CST.
Payloads:
Plant-Microbe Interactions in Space (APEX-10): Veggie units were set up, cleaned up, and dried out. Plant and microbial associations are key to the success of individual plants, but scientists do not fully understand how the space environment may alter these associations. Plant-Microbe Interactions in Space (APEX-10) tests whether the beneficial microbe Trichoderma harzianum confers increased stress resilience and improved growth to seedlings of tomato plants (Lycopersicum esculentum) when the two are grown together in microgravity.
Electromagnetic Levitator (EML): The helium valve was opened, and both Argon valves were closed. The EML is a facility composed of four inserts installed into the European Drawer Rack (EDR) for the electromagnetic levitation of samples. The experiment samples are installed in a dedicated sample chamber that is attached to EML and can be replaced by new sample chambers for new experiment batches.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: Following a very successful fiber pull yesterday, the processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the series to be processed. Production of Flawless Space Fibers-1 tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality optical fibers in space. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
Genes in Space Molecular Operations and Sequencing (GiSMOS): Hardware was gathered in preparation for upcoming Genes in Space activities. GiSMOS uses targeted gene sequencing to identify bacteria and fungi species in the ISS water system. Characterizing the space station’s microbial communities is critical to sustaining the health of crew members and vehicles on future missions. No accurate microbial profile exists for the ISS’s water systems due to an overrepresentation of a few bacterial species, who are able to outgrow others in the return water bags.
NanoRacks Mainframe Alpha: The crew removed Module-92 from the MFA facility and installed Module-89. NanoRacks modules are capable of hosting a wide variety of science investigations. The smallest of the modules is a “1U” format with dimensions of 10x10x10 cm, but larger modules are also common. NanoRacks MFA is an EXPRESS Rack (ER) sub-facility designed to provide thermal control, power, and data management to individual NanoRacks module experiments.
Spaceborne Computer-2: Spaceborne Computer-2 refurbished hardware was installed into ER10B. Spaceborne Computer-2 High Performance Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Computer System on the ISS (Spaceborne Computer-2) builds upon the successes of Spaceborne Computer. Spaceborne Computer-2 aims to explore how COTS computer systems can advance exploration by processing data significantly faster in space through edge computing and artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities.
Space Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter (SpaceTED): The SD card was removed from the SpaceTED unit and was inserted into a laptop data downlink. Exposure to space radiation can introduce hazards to crew member health and impede the function of equipment in space. Building on a previous ISSstudy, SpaceTED aims to develop a device to collect data on the crew’s radiation exposure and characterize the space radiation environment. This low-cost, portable device may be able to better assess radiation risks and help protect the crewmembers and systems on long-term missions.
Vascular Aging: Blood pressure measurements were performed using the CDL Holter Arterial BP Unit for the Vascular Echo experiment. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, arterial ultrasounds, blood samples, oral glucose tolerances, and wearable sensors from the ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Systems:
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance: The crew completed a quarterly maintenance of ARED to inspect the X-Rotation Dashpots, cycle the Main Arm through its full range of motion, and grease the ARED VIS Rails, Rollers, and Upper Stops. ARED uses adjustable resistance, piston-driven, vacuum cylinders, along with a flywheel system, to simulate free-weight exercises in normal gravity. Studies have found that without exercises like those possible on the ARED, astronauts could lose up to 15% of their muscle volume, which could be difficult or even impossible to regain back on Earth.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection: The crew completed a routine monthly inspection of the AED and its associated consumables. The crew tested the batteries and examined the outer AED case and AED Electrodes Kit. AEDs are used in conjunction with chest compressions and breaths, when providing a person with CPR.
HMS Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluations: The HMS monitors crew health, responds to crew illness or injury, provides preventive health care, and provides stabilization and emergency transport between vehicles. Today, the crew completed PHS evaluations using an otoscope for ear imagery along with other tools for measuring and recording the crew’s temperature, blood pressure, pulse, and respiratory rate.
GITAI Operations: On Monday, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) towards the Nanoracks Airlock (NRAL) located on Node 3 Port. SSRMS then grappled the NRAL Power and Video Grapple Fixture (PVGF)-1 and applied power in preparation for depress/leak checks. Finally, the MSS was powered down. In conjunction with these robotics operations, the ground team worked with the crew to prepare the Node 3 Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) for NRAL demate and followed that with an NRAL hatch inspection and closure and equipment setup for depressurization. These activities are in preparation of the sortie for GITAI payload installation, which started today with the beginning of depressurizing NRAL. Project GITAI S2’s extraveHicular multi-Objective in-Space servicing Task demonstration (GHOST) validates the design, build, and operation of extravehicular robotics (EVR) systems using GITAI’s S2, 2-meter class, modular, robotic arm.
