
Airway Monitoring:  Kopra and Peake completed a European Space Agency (ESA) Airway Monitoring session which began this morning when the crewmembers assembled a Lithium Hydroxide (LIOH) canister and portable fan assembly to prepare for carbon dioxide removal in the US Airlock.  Subsequently, Nitric Oxide (NO) measurements were taken of both crewmembers at nominal and reduced pressures in the Airlock. The primary goal of the Airway Monitoring experiment is to determine how gravity and microgravity influence the turnover of Nitric Oxide in the lungs.  During future manned missions to the Moon and to Mars, airway inflammation due to toxic dust inhalation is a risk factor. Since dust may cause airway inflammation and since such inflammation can be monitored by exhaled Nitric Oxide analysis, the present study is highly relevant for astronaut health in future space programs.
 
Cognition:  Kelly performed his final, Return Minus 14 (R-14) session of the Cognition experiment.  The Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) investigation is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software used allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Sleep Log:  One year crewmembers Kelly and Kornienko each recorded a Sleep Log entry after waking today. The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness.  The investigation examines the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.
 
Payload Network Attached Storage (NAS) Deployment:  Kelly began deployment of the Payload NAS at the Laboratory Module aft bulkhead location. The large storage device will be utilized for storing ISS Experiment data.
 
44 Soyuz (44S) Prepack:  Kelly continued prepacking items in 44S in preparation for return to Earth next Tuesday, March 1.
 

