
Rodent Research-4 (RR-4) Transfer Operations: Saturday, the crew reported all of the animals were successfully transferred them from the SpX-10 transporters to the four Rodent Research Habitats on the ISS. Sunday, the crew cleaned and stowed the transporters. The Tissue Regeneration-Bone Defect (RR-4) studies what prevents vertebrates such as rodents and humans from regrowing lost bone and tissue, and how the microgravity extraterrestrial condition impacts the process. Results could lead to tissue regeneration efforts in space and a better understanding of limitations of limb regrowth at wound sites.
Microgravity Expanded Stem Cells (MESC) Microscope Operations: The crew continued with MESC operations over the weekend, Saturday, the crew removed the BioCells from Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory-2 (SABL2) and with ground team support imaged the BioCells to capture points of interest to the payload developers.  Both crew and ground teams reported seeing 3D cell structures which are not seen in 1G. The imaged BioCells were then returned to SABL2. Sunday, the crew fixed one of two imaging cells, sampled and preserved four BioCells, preserved two BioCells, and inserted seven BioCells into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for cold stowage.  Today, the crew repeated the fixing sampling, preserving and cold stowage insertion for another set of sample BioCells. MESC will aid researches determine the efficiency of using a microgravity environment to accelerate expansion (replication) of stem cells for use in terrestrial clinical trials for treatment of disease.
Advanced Plant Experiments (APEX)-04: Saturday, the crew reviewed procedures then retrieved and transferred the APEX-04 samples from Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) to the Veggie facility.  The 27 APEX-04 petri plates were installed to begin the grow-out of the Arabidopsis thaliana plants. Sunday, the crew photographed a petri plate and reported condensation.  Ground teams will review the images and determine if a different plate will be used as a representative sample as only one plate is imaged at a time; small disturbances of as little as 20-30 seconds of movement from Veggie to the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) can change the growth of the plants. The APEX-04 (Epigenetic change in Arabidopsis thaliana in response to spaceflight – differential cytosine DNA methylation of plants on the ISS) experiment investigates how spaceflight can affect an organism on a molecular level without altering its outward appearance. Previous research has demonstrated that large numbers of plant genes are expressed differently in space compared to plants on Earth, which can alter how plants grow. This investigation studies the entire genome of thale cress plants grown in space, creating maps of spaceflight-specific changes in certain groups of genes. Results give new insight into plants’ molecular responses to spaceflight, which benefits efforts to grow plants in space for food and oxygen.
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics-1: On Sunday, the crew retrieved the LMM Biophysics-1 (The Effect of Macromolecular Transport of Microgravity Protein Crystallization) sample from the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), allowed it to thaw, and inserted it into the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR).  The LMM Biophysics-1 investigation improves understanding of the physical processes that enable high-quality crystals to grow in space, where Earth’s gravity does not interfere with their formation.
JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Depress: The crew depressed the airlock then vented the remaining air prior to the deployment of NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD)-10 early next week. 
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): The crew performed their FMS sessions this morning. The FMS experiment is executed on a touchscreen tablet, where the crew performs a series of interactive tasks. The investigation studies how fine motor skills are effected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of FMS is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Sunday and overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers unstowed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from the Lab Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF).  They then maneuvered the SSRMS and SPDM to a translate configuration and translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite #6 (WS6) to WS7.  Since they were ahead of schedule, the Robotics Ground Controllers also performed part of today’s operations, maneuvering the SSRMS and SPDM as required to use SPDM Arm1 to remove the Optical PAyload for Lasercomm Science (OPALS) from EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Logistics Carrier 1 (ELC1).  MSS performance was nominal.  Monday night Robotic Ground Controllers will extract OPALS from ELC-1 Site 8 and install on SPDM EOTP Side 2.
Treadmill (T)2 Maintenance:  The crew completed the 6-month T2 inspection. During this task the crew inspected the treadbelt slats and screws, cleaned the treadmill drive shaft, greased forward and rear axles, vacuumed inside the rack and around the treadmill, and inspected the bungee shackle key mount witness mark.  This is nominal periodic corrective maintenance.  Following the inspection, there was a checkout session prior to authorizing T2 for nominal use.
Dragon Cargo Operations:  Crew completed unloading the Dragon vehicle on Saturday.  Instructions for loading cargo for return will be uplinked to the crew later this week. 
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Maintenance:  Today the crew reviewed procedures and gathered some of the necessary tools and materials to perform a week’s worth of CDRA maintenance.  Over the next three days the crew will remove the old beds from Lab CDRA and replace them with the newer generation beds, like those in Node 3 CDRA.  This involves removing Lab CDRA from the LAB1D6 Air Revitalization (AR) Rack, disassembling it by removing all of the valves and ducting to access the beds, R&Ring the beds, reassembling CDRA, and reinstalling it in the Rack.

