All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 Upon wakeup, FE-1 Lonchakov terminated his ninth experiment session for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/SONOKARD, by taking the recording device from his SONOKARD sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember's physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 FE-2 Magnus conducted another session with the new US payload SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment), performed in the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), controlled by its A31p laptop with SPICE microdrives. Sandy conducted six test points with new fuel (#55-60; #61-66).    [SPICE determines the point at which gas-jet flames (similar to a butane-lighter flame) begin to emit soot (dark carbonaceous particulate formed inside the flame) in microgravity.  Studying a soot emitting flame is important in understanding the ability of fires to spread and in control of soot in practical combustion systems in space.]
 
 FE-1 Lonchakov worked several hours in the SM (Service Module) on dismantling the KURS-P equipment, after disconnecting it from the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry system in VD-SU control system mode.    [The equipment will be re-installed in the FGB on Wednesday.   A new KURS unit that arrived on 32P will be installed in the SM tomorrow.  Prior to 31P docking, the FGB KURS unit was moved and installed into the SM after the unit there was found to be failed.  This week's activities will ensure the newest KURS unit is installed in the SM and used for the most vehicle traffic.]
 
 As has become standard operating procedure after deactivation/reactivation of the BITS2-12 onboard measurement telemetry system and VD-SU monitoring mode, Yuri performed a quick function verification of the relatively new SUBA Ethernet connection between the OpsLAN (Operations Local Area Network) and the BRI Smart Switch Router in the SM.    [The routine task uses the RSS1 laptop for a comm check with the RSC-E PingMaster application and for downloading BRI log files.]
 
 FE2 Magnus continued the sessions with CRE-1 (Component Repair Equipment 1) hardware, working on unsoldering additional components from an integrated circuit board, and re-soldering new components including an integrated circuit chip.     [Background &amp; Objective:  In an effort to minimize the logistical footprint required to support space exploration, NASA-wide studies are being conducted to determine practicality &amp; feasibility of repairing failed hardware in space at the lowest possible hardware level.  The current ISS electronics repair plan is to replace an entire ORU.  However, ORU-level replacements will be logistically challenging for programs such as Constellation; thus, electrical repairs at a component level are seen as highly desirable.  Electrical repair in microgravity using solder is the focus of this experiment.  To help gather data needed to develop a capability of repairs with a smaller logistical footprint, this CRE-1 activity will use the materials in the CRE-1 Kit to attempt repairs to functional circuit cards, which will be returned to Ground for analysis.  The procedure uses the US Soldering Iron Kit, ISS IVA Vacuum and the CRE-1 Kit contents (delivered on ULF2) to be set up on the MWA Work Surface Area, complete with the MWA Containment System. CRE-1 is SDTO (Station Development Test Objective) 17012-U.]
 
 In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Magnus conducted a checkout of the HDTV (High Definition Television) system and IPU (Image Processing Unit), downlinking G1 camcorder video data via the IPU.
 
 On the MATRYOSHKA-R (RBO-3-2) radiation instrumentation in the SM (panel 326), Lonchakov turned off the AST Spectrometer, taking radiation measurements, then removed the PCMCIA (Portable Computer Memory Card International Adapter) ALC-960 memory card and checked number and size of its data files.  Card 960 was then stowed in a kit, with the AST Spectrometer remaining deactivated.  The activity and hardware was photo documented, with the images processed for downlink via OCA.
 
 Mike installed an IWIS RSU (Internal Wireless Integrated System/Remote Sensing Unit) accelerometer in the US Airlock, intended eventual STS-119/15A docking data taking.
 
 Sandy completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]
 
 The FE-2 also took care of the regular daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance task by updating/editing the IMS standard “delta file” including stowage locations for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 The crewmembers had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Sandy at ~8:35am, Mike at ~8:50am, Yuri at ~1:00pm, EST.
 
 The station residents completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS (CDR, FE-2), TVIS treadmill (FE-1), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website:
 <a href="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov">http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov</a>  &lt;<a href="http://">http://</a>eol.jsc.nasa.gov/&gt;  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).
 
 

