
Cube Satellite (CubeSat) Operations and Deploys: Overnight 4 CubeSats were successfully launched by JAXA Robotic Flight Controllers from two NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD) locations.  Eleven more satellites will be deployed in the next 2 days.  CubeSat format satellites are launched from the ISS for a variety of commercial and national customers.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons 2 (RaDI-N2) Space Bubble Detector Deploy:  FE-5 Mastracchio received 8 bubble detectors initialized by a Russian crewmember and placed them in their deployed locations.  Radi-N2 is a follow-on investigation of RaDI-N1 and the Matroshka-R experiments conducted on ISS.  Seven of the 8 neutron “bubble detectors” are attached to fixed locations inside the ISS and one is being carried by a crewmember.  RaDI-N2 is designed to characterize the neutron radiation environment inside the ISS.  The results of this investigation will be used to define the risk to ISS crewmembers’ health and in the development of advanced protective measures for future space flights.
Body Measures Investigation:  FE-6 Wakata, with operator assistance from Mastracchio, set up cameras and performed body marker instrumentation, then collected calibration and body pose photos, neutral body posture video and circumference measurements. This is Wakata’s Flight Day 105 session.  The goal of this study is to gather data to better understand the magnitude and variability of changes due to microgravity and fluid shifts within the human body during long-duration space flight.  Results of the investigation may result in changes to space suit fit and sizing, workstation design, etc. for future missions to maximize performance, prevent injury, and reduce crew time to accommodate their anthropometrics.
Human Research Facility (HRF) Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device (SLAMMD) Body Measures:  FE-3 Hopkins and Wakata performed their monthly body mass measurements.   These measurements are used in support of Pro K and the Body Measures experiments.  SLAMMD provides body mass through the application of Newton’s Second Law of Motion (force is equal to mass times acceleration).  Two springs are used to generate a known force against a crewmember mounted on an extension arm and the resulting acceleration is used to calculate the subject’s mass.
Story Time From Space:  Hopkins set up a camcorder and read the children’s book Max Goes to Jupiter.  This is the fifth book reading for Story Time From Space, which combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS.  Crewmembers read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit and complete simple science concept experiments.  Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials on the Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS) Academy educational website.
Audio Bus Coupler (ABC) 2 Remove and Replace (R&R): Hopkins performed an R&R of ABC 2 located in the Lab. The Audio Subsystem distributes voice and tones throughout the United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) via two redundant fiber optic busses (A and B). This task was performed in an attempt to resolve the fiber optic buss B faults that have been experienced since February 12th.  After the R&R, Flight Controllers activated the new ABC and were able to perform a successful comm check with the crew utilizing only fiber optic bus B.  However, the same fiber optic B faults re-appeared. The system continues to operate nominally with no issues being reported on fiber optic bus A.  Ground teams will continue their investigation into the source of the fiber optic B faults.
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Backup Drive Unit (BDU) Phase 3 Commissioning:  Today the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and performed Phase 3 of the Commissioning of the SPDM BDU.  This consisted of using the BDU to individually drive each of the joints in both SPDM Arms.  The purpose of this commissioning was to verify that each joint would correctly move to the commanded position when driven by the BDU. The Robotics Ground Controllers also performed periodic SPDM Brake and Joint Diagnostics, On-Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism (OTCM) Diagnostics and Checkouts, and OTCM Camera Light Assembly (OCLA) Television Camera (OTVC) Checkouts in preparation for the SPDM SpaceX-3 Payload Operations in March.

