
Growth of Homogeneous SiGe Crystals in Microgravity by the TLZ Method (Hicari)  Experiment:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata removed the Sample Cartridge Serial Number 004 from Sample Cartridge Automatic Exchange Mechanism (SCAM) holder #4. The materials science investigation Growth of Homogeneous Silicon-Germanium (SiGe) Crystals in Microgravity by the TLZ Method (Hicari) aims to verify the crystal-growth by Travelling Liquidous Zone method, and to produce high-quality crystals of SiGe semiconductor using the Japanese Experiment Module-Gradient Heating Furnace (JEM-GHF). Once this method is established, it is expected to be applied for developing much efficient solar cells and semiconductor-based electronics.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Facility Reconfiguration for Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-M-1 Operations:  FE-3 Hopkins reconfigured FIR hardware for the upcoming FIR ACE-M-1 operations. ACE-M-1 is the first in a series of microscopic imaging investigations of materials which contain small colloidal particles which remain evenly dispersed and distributed within the material. Colloidal gels define the microstructure of materials, including many consumer products.  When the structures created in commercial colloidal gel products can no longer support the gravitational stresses (e.g. buoyancy) on the structures, they collapse.  This often determines the shelf life of the product. This investigation takes advantage of the unique environment onboard the ISS to separate the effects induced by Earth’s gravity to examine flow characteristics and the evolution and ordering effects within these colloidal materials.
NanoRacks Module 9 Investigation:  Hopkins activated deactivate, and shook different designated mixing tubes for the fourth of six NanoRacks Module 9 sessions.  For this investigation student teams from across the United States designed their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. This investigation is part of the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP), which is sponsored by the commercial Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education program that is overseen by the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE).  The tubes activated today are for investigations “Geotropism in Microgravity,”  “The Effect of Microgravity on Bacterial Growth and its Resistance to Antibiotics,”  “Does microgravity affect the growth of a Glycine max seed?,” “Mammalian Milk in Microgravity,” “The Effect of Microgravity on the Oxidation of Metal Exposed to a Salt Water Solution.”
Lab Robotic Workstation (RWS) Jumper Removal: Today the crew removed the pin kit jumpers that were installed to power the Lab RWS from an alternate Remote Power Controller (RPC).  The jumpers were installed when the primary RPC, LAP51A4A_A RPC2, tripped and would not stay closed for sufficient periods of time to allow robotics operations.  The RPC was later successfully re-closed and has remained closed for over 60 days.  It is considered self-healed and the jumper is being removed to return the system to its nominal power configuration.

