ISS On-Orbit Status 02/24/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
After breakfast, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
FE-6 Pettit continued his 3<sup>rd</sup> (FD60) suite of sessions with Day 5 of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.  In addition to recording his diet input, Don terminated his associated 24-hr urine collections at ~12:10am EST and completed the blood sampling.  André took documentary photography of the blood draw and processing.      [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD370, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day (science sessions are often referred to by Flight Day 15, 30, 60, etc.  However, there are plus/minus windows associated with these time points so a “Flight Day 15” science session may not actually fall on the crewmember’s 15<sup>th</sup> day on-orbit).  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  On Days 4 &amp; 5, urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
FE-5 Kuipers continued his 3<sup>rd</sup> (FD60) Pro K session with Day 2, with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.
 
FE-4 Kononenko terminated his 3<sup>rd</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
Before breakfast, Shkaplerov, Ivanishin, Kononenko &amp; Kuipers completed a session each with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.  Involving visual urine assessment, MO-9 is one of 4 Russian crew health status checkups currently being conducted (the other three: MO-3 (Physical Fitness Evaluation), MO-7 (Calf Volume Measurement) &amp; MO-8 (Body Mass Measurement).      [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]
 
Oleg Kononenko performed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the “bake-out” cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  Oleg will terminate the process at ~4:15pm EST.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday.  (Done last: 2/6 &amp; 2/7).       [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hrs and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days.]
 
Working in the Lab MWA (Maintenance Work Area), CDR Burbank conducted troubleshooting on a nonfunctional food warmer (#1007) and repaired the severed ground straps of #1007 and another food warmer (#1005).      [Crew note from Dan: “Repair complete.  Good continuity check 0.7 ohms on 400 range.”]
 
Afterwards, Burbank spent time on the IMV (Intermodule Ventilation) of the US A/L (Airlock) correcting a possible misconfiguration by moving a panel screen from the conditioned air supply port to the IMV air return port on the A/L dust selector panel.      [It had been suspected for a while that the low Airlock/Node-1 IMV flow measurements could be due to added dust from a filter misconfiguration. Today’s procedure was to help clarify the issue.]
 
Anton Shkaplerov set up the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) hardware at SM window #9 for another 1h 50m sun-glint observation session, using the bracket-mounted spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor) for unattended ops, synchronized with the coaxially mounted NIKON D2X camera for taking snapshots, and later downloaded the data to laptop RS1 for subsequent downlink via OCA.        [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere.]
 
Afterwards, FE-1 had ~4 hrs set aside on his timeline to dismantle and remove the rigid and flexible parts of the air duct between the SM RO (Working Compartment) and the SM PrK (Transfer Tunnel) for disposal and replace them with new units from storage.
 
Closing out the outfitting started yesterday in the SM, FE-2 Ivanishin today replaced the four SR-2 lights and their fuses.      [On the day before, Anatoly had removed 8 light units (2 type SD1-7, 4 type SR-2, 2 type SPR-1) and their fuses for disposal in Progress 46P.  The SD1-7 and SPT-1 lamps were then replaced with new spares.] 
 
Afterwards, FE-2 took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Anatoly also performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Using the video camera system in the MRM1 Rassvet module, Kononenko conducted a multicasting test of MPEG2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) television equipment, transmitting streaming video to TsUP-Moscow, with the SSC-1 (Station Support Computer 1) T61p laptop monitoring the image coming from the SSC-2 laptop as source.     [Since the TV MPEG2 multicasting checkout by Oleg caused transmission outage on wireless SSCs (Station Support Computers) on board, the crew was advised that they could switch anticipated uses of their wireless laptop to a wired SSC instead.]
 
FE-5 Kuipers serviced the VIABLE experiment (eValuatIon And monitoring of microBiofiLms insidE the ISS), touching and blowing the top of each of 4 VIABLE bags in the FGB (loc. 409) where they are stowed to collect environment samples.  It was his 3<sup>rd</sup> time.       [This investigation evaluates microbial biofilm development on space materials.  Objectives are to determine the microbial strain producing the anti-biofilm product, evaluate the chemical nature of the anti-biofilm product, study the innovative materials which are chemo-physically treated, and address the biological safety issues associated with microbial biofilms.  Background: Most surfaces are covered with microorganisms under natural conditions.  The process by which a complex community of microorganisms is established on a surface is known as biofilm formation.  Microbial biofilms can exist in many different forms by a wide range of microorganisms.  The process of biofilm formation is a prerequisite for substantial corrosion and/or deterioration of the underlying materials to take place.  VIABLE samples are composed by both metallic and textile space materials either conventional or innovative (Aluminum, Armaflex and Betacloth).  They are placed inside four foam lined Nomex bags, specifically:  Pouch 1 - untreated space materials; Pouch 2 - space materials pre-treated with biosurfactants; Pouch 3 - space materials pre-treated with hydrogen peroxide; Pouch 4 - space materials chemo-physically pre-treated with silica and silver coating.]
 
Afterwards, André set up the new NightPOD system in the Cupola for commissioning, calibrated it with uplinked target information and then performed manual and automatic shooting.       [Main purpose of the commissioning was to get a few good Manual Shooting pictures and part of the ground track photographed in Automatic Mode.  NightPOD is an “intelligent” tripod head developed as a one-of-a-kind product for mounting and accurately tracking a camcorder (or single-lens reflex camera) in the Node-3/Cupola.  André Kuipers will be using it for taking high-resolution imagery Earth on the dark side of the orbit, i.e., while in the sun’s shadow.]
 
With the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) activated and the G1 camcorder set up in the Lab for real-time ground monitoring, Don Pettit configured the SLICE (Structure &amp; Liftoff In Combustion Experiment) pyrometry hardware and performed the 3<sup>rd</sup> flame test operation, preceded by pyrometry calibration using heated ceramic fibers.  The test was then conducted with 100% propane to determine smoke points (i.e., the flow conditions when soot first escapes from the flame tip, where it is sometimes on the centerline and sometime on the edge: “horns”).  Later, FE-6 installed another burner tube in the SPICE Experiment Assembly, replaced the flash/memory card with a new one and ran the flame test a second time.  André took documentary photography.       [The research goal is to gain unique data to extend scientists’ predictive capability.  Earth application: Increased efficiency and reduced pollutant emission for practical combustion devices, improved numerical modeling, hence improved design tools, hence improved practical combustion on Earth (currently, the good modeling-experiment agreement breaks down when flames are lean or heavily sooting).  Measurements: still images (with camera that was blackbody calibrated for pyrometry), video &amp; radiometer.  Hardware:  SLICE is conducted in the MSG using the SPICE hardware.]
 
After yesterday’s replacement of the TVIS chassis and subsequent unmanned and manned ACO, Kononenko today was scheduled for the monthly maintenance of the treadmill, consisting of an inspection to check its SLD (Subject Load Device) cables and exit pulley housing,  harnesses, and corner bracket ropes.  TVIS is Go for use.     [A second crewmember needs to assist in the SLD inspection by pulling the cables out 10 in. (25.4 cm) while the other crewmember performs the inspection.]
 
With its battery freshly charged overnight, Oleg later installed &amp; started the equipment of the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment at SM window #9 for another run, using it to observe the Earth surface and atmosphere at terminator crossing in two parts, with spectrometer adjustment in between (10:40am-11:00am &amp;12:00pm-12:20pm EST).  Later, Oleg dismantled the equipment again and dumped the data from Laptop 3 via the RSS1 terminal.       [By means of the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka-MV-Kosmos” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and SONY HVR-Z7 HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #9, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]
 
André Kuipers retrieved a spare RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) from PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) stowage and then changed out the full RFTA in the Node-3 WRS-2 (Water Recovery System) Rack 2, stowing the used unit.  Afterwards, André reconfigured the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) from using the internal EDV-U container, integrating it with the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly).      [RFTAs collect the substances cleaned from the pretreated urine by the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) as it turns it into water.  They need to be replaced when filled and constitute an important resupply item from the ground.]
 
FE-5 also conducted his weekly task of filling out his SHD (Space Headache) questionnaire which he started after Soyuz launch and continues on ISS (on an SSC/Station Support Computer) for every week after his first week in space.
 
Later, André performed regular maintenance calibration on the sensors of the two CSA-O<sub>2</sub> (Compound Specific Analyzer-Oxygen) units #1043 &amp; #1048.
 
After safing both Stbd &amp; Ovhd CQs (Crew Quarters) in Node-2 by turning off power switches to allow removal of the structural CQ “bumpout”, Dan Burbank had several hours allotted for routing a cable through Node-2 to connect the LAN (Local Area Network) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) to the JSL (Joint Station LAN), to be completed after the COL Cycle 13 software transition.
Continuing the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, Ivanishin worked in the MRM2 Poisk module to clean the VD1 &amp; VD2 air ducts.
 
Anatoly had another 2h 50m set aside for unloading cargo from Progress 46P and transferring it to the ISS, logging moves in the IMS.
 
Oleg completed his 5<sup>th</sup> data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.       [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Dan was to turn MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
FE-6 had another time slot reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on the personal SSC.     [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Don also filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), his 8<sup>th</sup>.       [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
At ~3:15am, Oleg &amp; Anatoly linked up with TsUP-Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
At ~5:10am EST, Burbank, Ivanishin, Shkaplerov, Kuipers, Kononenko &amp; Pettit held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
At ~8:50am, Don Pettit powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 9:00am conducted a ham radio session with students at 1° Circolo Didattico Nicola Fornelli, Bitonto, Italy.
 
At ~9:15am, André performed the weekly ESA crew conference via phone with COL-CC at Oberpfaffenhofen/Germany. 
 
At ~9:35am, FE-5 had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
At ~2:45pm, the crew was scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H.
 
WRM Update:     A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (29-0008L) lists 23 CWCs (368.4 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (4 CWCs with 129.8 L, for Elektron electrolysis, all containing Wautersia bacteria, plus 1 empty bag;  2. Condensate water (2 CWCs with 9.8 L, plus 2 empty bags);  3. Iodinated water (7 CWCs with 97.9 L; also 6 expired bags with 104.3 L);  4. Waste water (1 bag with 6.4 L EMU waste water); and  5. Special fluid (1 CWC with 20.2 L, hose/pump flush).  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycled ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-5), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).     [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.]
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Shebelle River valley, S Somalia (looking right for a mapping pass [overlapping images] of this densely populated valley.  The valley lies just inland of the coastal dunes, paralleling the coast for hundreds of km.  The valley appears darker than the dunes to seaward and desert inland.  Underground water supply [derived from a river with sources in well-watered Ethiopia] is the main source of water not only for rural populations on this arid coast, but for the capital city of Mogadishu as well.  ISS images have revealed unexpected near-surface water sources from sudden greening of vegetation), West Cuba (looking left to document Cuban coastal land cover.  Two sites on the coast were requested.  Researchers at Florida International University are conducting an analysis of land cover change.  This multi-national collaboration of various research institutes and universities is an ongoing project actively looking to acquire additional data), Havana, Cuba (CAPITAL CITY COLLECTION.  Looking at nadir on a slight bulge in the coastline for this capital city of 2.1 million.  Founded in 1515, the historic city center was declared a UNESCO World heritage Site in 1982), and Florida Coastal Everglades (this LTER [Long Term Ecological Research] site lies just left of track, on the protected west side of the Florida peninsula.  The objective is to record land cover/land use change on a seasonal basis.  180 mm images are excellent for general context, while 400 and 800 mm images along land cover or coastal boundaries are useful for quantitative work).
 

