
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #30 Preparation:  The USOS crew members made final preparations for the tomorrow’s EVA.  Today, they reviewed the detailed EVA timeline and translation paths, completed an EVA tool audit, and configured the equipment lock. Tomorrow’s EVA will complete the IDA-1 cable installation and accomplish Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE) Lubrication.  Joint Airlock Egress is scheduled to occur at ~6:15am CST with ingress taking place at ~12:10pm CST.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status:   Flight Controllers were not able to perform a process cycle yesterday evening due to high pressure within the system, following the Fluids Control Pump Assembly (FCPA) change out. Today, ground teams worked to lower the system pressure to the required 24 mmHg.  Once the targeted pressure was reached, a process cycle was attempted.  However, UPA faulted out shortly afterwards.   The Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) remains configured for internal tank (EDV), while ground teams investigate the latest UPA error code. 
External (EXT)-2 Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM):  This morning the primary EXT MDM (EXT-2) lost communication with the upstream Primary Command and Control (C&C) MDM.  Redundancy Management Software executed as expected and removed power from the MDM then commanded EXT-1 MDM as primary.   Since then, Flight Controllers have successfully re-powered EXT-2 MDM and are receiving good health and status from the MDM with no failures being reported.  Ground teams will continue to monitor EXT-2 and investigate the loss of communication event.  The EXT MDM is responsible for specific control and data processing of multiple external systems, including the Mobile Transporter (MT), Passive Thermal Control System (PTCS), Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ), Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint (TRRJ), and the Secondary Electrical Power System (SEPS).
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Filter ORU Change Out:  As part of periodic maintenance, Cristoforetti changed out the PWD Filter today.

