
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: Four Actiwatch-Plus units were connected to the HRF-1 rack for charging and data downlink. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until it’s downloaded for analysis.
Astrobee: Flyer, video, and live stream preparation was performed to support ground command operations. Astrobee is made up of free-flying, cube-shaped robots.  These robots are designed to help scientists, and engineers, develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the ISS. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The CIR High Percentage Oxygen Bottle was swapped out with a new bottle (S/N 2015) containing 85% Oxygen and 15% Nitrogen. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel, oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): The Air Gas Bottle unit valve was closed. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt, and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and the solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the JEM.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: Following a very successful fiber pull yesterday, the processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next set in the series to be processed. Production of Flawless Space Fibers-1 tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality optical fibers in space. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Four Bed CO2 (4BCO2) Operations: The crew replaced the Scrubber Bed filters and reclocked the Magnetic Bearing Blower in the 4BCO2. The 4BCO2 demonstrates a technology for removing CO2 from the atmosphere on a spacecraft. The technology is based on the current system in use on the ISS with mechanical upgrades in absorption beds, heater elements, and valves and use of an improved zeolite absorbent to reduce erosion and dust formation.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with Girl Scout Troop 1089 in Sacramento, CA. Since the earliest ISS expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crewmembers 10 to 20 questions.
Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor: The Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Plug was removed from the MCA Inlet Port and the SD card was replaced. The Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor-2 Kit was stowed and close-up photos were taken of the MCA Inlet. The Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor investigation demonstrates the capabilities of a small, reliable, portable gas chromatograph mass spectrometer instrument aboard the ISS to conduct major and minor elements of air measurement. The instrument transmits data back to the ground every two seconds, providing ground teams with continuous data.
Vascular Aging: The crew consumed a glucose drink and performed the glucose measurement protocol using the Glucometer. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Virtual Reality (VR) Mental Care: A VR Mental Care Session was completed. The VR Mental Care investigation demonstrates the application of VR for mental relaxation, using 360° high quality (HQ) VR video and sound scenarios delivered via a VR headset. The overall aim is to use VR technology to provide a positive impact on the general mental health of astronauts during a space mission. Investigation activities consist of in-flight testing sessions comprised of VR video viewing and questionnaires via the ESA EveryWear app.
Systems:
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) ARED Instrumentation Box (AIB) Reinstall: The crew replaced the Exercise Instrumentation Box (EIB) with the AIB and set up the ARED ZBook. The EIB was originally installed to replace the older AIB unit. Once installed the EIB experienced issues with tracking and recording exercise data like counting reps or keeping track of the crew’s exercise sessions. After attempting to troubleshoot the issues, the team was unsuccessful and ultimately decided to reinstall the AIB to prevent any potential loss of science. This is the second swap that has occurred in an attempt to troubleshoot these issues. 
GITAI Operations: GITAI Sortie operations continue to proceed as planned today. GITAI was extracted from the NRAL internal volume and installed on external payload site D using the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). Project GITAI S2’s extraveHicular multi-Objective in-Space servicing Task demonstration (GHOST) validates the design, build, and operation of extravehicular robotics (EVR) systems using GITAI’s S2, 2-meter class, modular, robotic arm.
JEM ORU Transfer Interface (JOTI) Install and Configure for the MISSE Transfer Tray: Today the crew installed the JOTI on the JEM Airlock Slide Table to transfer a MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT). To do so, the crew had to remove a previous Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) experiment from the JEM Slide Table. The JEM Airlock is used to transfer Payloads and ORUs between the internal and external environments of the ISS. It performs this function with a Slide Table mechanism which can extend into the JPM for interaction with crew and then extend externally for interactions with robotics or EVA. The JOTI is designed to be a generic ORU transfer interface, reconfigurable to accommodate the various sizes and shapes of ORUs currently onboard the ISS.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Backup EDV Swap: Today, the crew changed out the backup EDV in the UTS. EDV are intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. The objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from the Toilet System and Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA). 
