
Water Process Assembly (WPA) Status:  Following yesterday’s WPA Catalytic Reactor replacement, the WPA successfully completed a process cycle and is working nominally.  In addition, the crew returned Treadmill 2 (T2) and Water Recovery System (WRS)-1 Racks back to their nominal configuration.
 
Airway Monitoring:  Peake completed setup of a camera and hardware for Airway Monitoring in the US Airlock in preparation for Kopra and Peake to complete an Airway Monitoring session tomorrow.  The primary goal of the experiment is to determine how gravity and microgravity influence the turnover of Nitric Oxide (NO) in the lungs.  During future manned missions to the Moon and to Mars, airway inflammation due to toxic dust inhalation is a risk factor. Since dust may cause airway inflammation and since such inflammation can be monitored by exhaled NO (Nitric Oxide) analysis, the present study is highly relevant for astronaut health in future space programs.
 
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL):  Today, Peake initiated a two week checkout of the new NASA SABL facility in the US Laboratory but the SABL hardware was powered off after the hardware temperature rose beyond the nominal range.  Ground experts are investigating.  SABL is required for use with the Micro-10 investigation that has hardware arriving on the SpaceX-8 vehicle.  It is an upgrade to the long standing ISS incubator, Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus (CGBA). SABL supports a wide variety of experiments in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes.  It is capable of supporting life science research on microorganisms, small organisms, animal cells, tissue cultures and small plants.
 
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF):  JAXA’s Ground team was not successful yesterday in checking out the ELF levitation control function.  Today’s checkout activities have been deferred while ground experts investigate the cause of the issues observed.  The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials employing containerless processing techniques that use the electrostatic levitation method with charged samples and electrodes. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
 
Habitability: Kopra recorded a narrated video of a blood draw from Kelly for the Habitability investigation.  He captured details such as hardware and tool interface issues, volume needed to perform the task, and other human factors concerns for task performance.  The Habitability investigation results will be used to assess the relationship between crew members and their environment to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations such as near earth asteroids and Mars. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions can help spacecraft designers determine how much habitable volume is required and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Twins Study:  In support of the Twins Study, Kelly continued his week-long Return minus 14 day (R-14) daily saliva and urine collections.  This investigation is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of them experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body that are important in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
 

