
Cube Satellite (CubeSat) Operations:  Four more CubeSats were successfully launched overnight by JAXA Robotic Flight Controllers from two NanoRacks CubeSat Deployers (NRCSDs).  The remaining 7 CubeSats will be deployed overnight.  CubeSat format satellites are launched from the ISS for a variety of commercial and national customers.
Try Zero-Gravity (Try Zero-G) Experiments:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata set up and completed JAXA Try Zero-G experiments while video of the activities were recorded with a camcorder.  Try Zero-G allows the public, especially kids, to vote for and suggest physical tasks for JAXA astronauts to perform to demonstrate the difference between zero and one gravity (G) for educational purposes.   Various categories of experiments are performed, including movements in space, spin (rotation), folding clothes, “Magic Carpet”, water pistol, eye drops, propulsion through space, and two-way movement. Video from these experiments will be used to support education resources for educators throughout Japan.
Burning and Suppression of Solids – 2 (BASS-2) Anomaly Investigation:  On February 20th the ISS crew identified discoloration and possible heat damage on the experiment assembly door.  Ground experts are investigating the root cause. Today FE-5 Mastracchio inspected the work volume and the electronics where the damage occurred and then evaluated the functionality of the door interlock switches which inhibit the abilities to energize the igniter and provide gas flow when the doors are open.   BASS-2 measurements of flame growth rates are useful in determining how quickly a fire in space can grow and if the flames reach a finite size or continue to grow.  This has implications for firefighting strategies in spacecraft
Circadian Rhythms: Wakata donned Thermolab double sensors, mounted the Thermolab unit on his belt, and connected and powered on the unit for his fifth session of this experiment.  The equipment will be worn for the next 36 hours.  This study examines the circadian variation of astronaut’s cardiac autonomic function during space flight. The research is expected to provide insights into changes in those functions before, during and after long-duration space flight and may be used to improve the health care technology used for future ISS crewmembers.
Dragon Rendezvous On-board Training (OBT): Mastracchio and Wakata performed proficiency training on the Dragon mission profile, Dragon rendezvous crew procedures, and the crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding the spacecraft.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Sample:  FE-3 Hopkins obtained a sample from the OGA recirculation loop and performed conductivity measurements on the sample.  The sample will also be returned to the ground for analysis.  Periodic water samples are returned for chemical, particulate, and microbial analysis in order to determine when total organic carbon remediation should be implemented to avoid risk of irreversible contamination damage to the OGA.
JEM Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Collection:  Hopkins removed an ITCS Maintenance Canister from the JEM ITCS which he installed on Tuesday to raise biocide Ortho-Phthalaldehyde (OPA) levels.  He then obtained a sample of the ITCS fluid for return to the ground. The biocide degrades naturally over time and in order to replenish it, a maintenance canister must be installed in line with the ITCS allowing fluid to flow through it for a set amount of time.

