
Lighting Effects: Upon wakeup, the 53S subject provided a sleep log entry and conducted a series of three Cognition tests and provided urine samples over a 24-hour period. The samples will be stowed in the MELFI for freezing until their return and analysis. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Marrow, Biochemical Profile, and Repository): A 53S crewmember completed breath and ambient air sample collections to support the Marrow experiment and provided blood and urine sample collections to support his Flight Day (FD 60) Biochemical Profile and Repository experiments. The samples were placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. 

Functional Immune: Today two 52S crewmembers began a five day Functional Immune session by collecting saliva samples. These samples support the return minus zero day (R-0) compliment for the 52S crewmembers. The Functional Immune investigation analyzes blood and saliva samples to determine the changes taking place in crewmembers’ immune systems during flight. The changes in the immune system are also compared with crewmembers’ self-reported health information. Results are expected to provide new insight into the possible health risks of long-duration space travel, including future missions to Mars, asteroids, or other distant destinations. 
NanoRacks DreamUp Xtronaut Crystal Growth (DreamXCG): The crew continued to track the progression of the DreamXCG formation that was initiated three weeks ago, by taking photo and video images of each pouch to show any visible sugar crystal growth. This investigation teaches students about the effects of microgravity on crystal formations using near-identical flight kits flown and operated aboard the International Space Station (ISS). With access to crew member videos and data on the same experiment, students are able compare crystal formations in space to those in their classrooms. The investigation aims to promote science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields to the next generation of students. 
Mobile Procedure Viewer (mobiPV):  The crew changed the credential settings for the mobiPV investigation to enable mobiPV free use anywhere on the ISS.  MobiPV allows users to view procedures hands-free and aims to improve the efficiency of activity execution by giving crewmembers a wireless set of wearable, portable devices that utilize voice navigation and a direct audio/video link to ground experts.  A smartphone is the primary device to interface with procedures.  Images provided in procedure steps can be displayed on a Google Glass display 
Space Headaches:  The crew completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS): Using the RED and Nikon camera, the crew captured images of the Australia Desert, and a swath of the Earth from Ireland to Moscow. EIISS is used to support creation of a series of videos showcasing Earth views taken from space. The videos are taken with cameras on the ISS in 6K hi-resolution and are integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement. 
EVA Deconfiguration:  Today the crew continued operations to reconfigure from last week’s EVA by continuing to charge batteries, auditing tools and Retractable Equipment Tethers (RETs), and conducting water conductivity.
COTS UHF Communications Unit (CUCU) Deactivation:  Today the crew deactivated the CUCU system after the completion of the GPS Ancillary Data Version 3 (GAD-V3) testing. 
IFM CQ Port Cleaning:  This morning, the crew cleaned the port crew quarters. 
WHC Piping R&R:  Today the crew replaced the Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) piping between the Pump Separator and the Dose Pump. 
Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Blower Testing:  Ground teams are continuing testing of CDRA blower speed capabilities in order to maximize carbon dioxide removal from the ISS atmosphere.  The blower speed has been increased to 149,500 rpm.

