ISS On-Orbit Status 02/20/12
 
&gt;&gt;&gt;Today 50 years ago (1962), U.S. Marine pilot John H. Glenn, one of the Original Seven Astronauts, became the first American to orbit the Earth in his Friendship 7 Mercury capsule.  Launched on an Atlas rocket, he circled the globe three times and splashed down safely after some concern about a loose heat shield.  His flight lasted 4h 55m 23s.  At that time, he was the 3<sup>rd</sup> American in space and the 5<sup>th</sup> person flying into space.  During a distinguished career as U.S. Senator (D/Ohio) from 1974-1999, John Glenn flew into space a second time, on the Space Shuttle Discovery, STS-95, on 10/29/1998, at age 77.&lt;&lt;&lt;
 
Today 40 years ago (2/20/1972), ISS FE-1 Shkaplerov was born in Sevastopol, Russia.
Happy Birthday, <strong>Anton Nikolayevich</strong>!
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  US Federal Holiday: Presidents’ Day. Underway:  Week 13 of Increment 30 (six-person crew).
 
After breakfast, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Anton also completed the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
FE-6 Pettit began his 3<sup>rd</sup> (FD60) suite of sessions with the controlled Pro K diet protocol (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.  After recording his diet input today, Don will begin the urine collections for pH value on Thursday (2/23) and blood sampling on Friday (2/24).       [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day (science sessions are often referred to by Flight Day 15, 30, 60, etc.  However, there are plus/minus windows associated with these time points so a “Flight Day 15” science session may not actually fall on the crewmember’s 15<sup>th</sup> day on-orbit).  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  On Days 4 &amp; 5, urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Pettit serviced the running BCAT-6 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-6) by replacing the BCAT-6 battery early in the morning with a fresh one and repeating the replacement about 8 hrs later.       [The NIKON D2Xs with EarthKAM software running on an SSC laptop takes automated flash photography controlled by the software, photographing Sample 4 once every two hours for seven days.  Crew performs three camera battery changes and a camera check each day. The camera battery changes are scheduled to be performed approximately every 8 hours per Mike Fossum’s recommendation during past BCAT-6 activities.]
 
FE-5 Kuipers started another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.        [Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
FE-2 Ivanishin spent ~4 hrs in the SM, troubleshooting the 4SPN2 pump panel of the KOB2 loop of the Russian SOTR internal thermal control system.       [Steps included removing &amp; replacing the ORU/BS (replaceable pump unit) #34 containing two electric pumps in the ENA1 assembly of the 4SPN2 pump panel with a spare BS (#9), then testing it and repeating the replacement with spare BS #36 if not successful.  If still not successful, the next step was to replace the K-90, then pressurize the loop and test the system.  Each of the two SOTR KOB loops has two ENA redundant pump panels with two redundant micro pumps each, N1 &amp; N2.  While in the early years of Mir and ISS the pumps were integral to the SPN panels, the current design allows them to be replaced without requiring an entire new SPN block.] 
 
Later, Anatoly performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
CDR Burbank &amp; FE-1 Shkaplerov joined up to transfer US EVA tools used in the recent Orlan EVA-30 from the RS (Russian Segment) to the US Airlock where Dan will return them to stowage on 2/22.
 
In the DC1 Docking Compartment, FE-4 Kononenko terminated the maintenance discharge process on the third Orlan 825M3 battery pack.
 
Afterwards, Oleg &amp; Anton worked in the DC1 and SM PkhO Transfer Compartment, closing them out by stowing equipment and returning them to their original pre-EVA configuration. 
 
Also as a post-EVA activity, Oleg &amp; Anton disassembled the SSVP docking mechanism on the Progress M-14M/46P cargo ship from the DC1 and installed the two ruchek handles on the external side of the hatch.
 
Spending ~2h 50m in Node-1, Andre Kuipers cleaned IMV (Intermodule Ventilation) systems such as the Stbd Aft IMV fan, inlet &amp; outlet silencers and air duct screens, after taking documentary photographs for subsequent downlink via SSC-20 (Station Support Computer 20).
 
Supporting the ground in the JAXA JPM, Dan Burbank shut off the Argon gas supply of the CGSE (Common Gas Support Equipment).
 
After the recent installation of the MDCA (Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus) “boot selector” inside the combustion chamber of the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) by Don Pettit on 2/13, the CDR today installed the “boot loader” firmware onto the MDCA Avionics Package from an ELC (EXPRESS Rack Laptop), then removed the boot selector again.       [With the Lab video camcorder set up to monitor activities, Burbank borrowed the ELC from ER5 for the installation and later returned it to its JPM location.  Background: On 1/19, CIR was unable to establish communication with the MDCA Avionics Package, i.e., the software controller for the MDCA CIA (Chamber Insert Assembly).  It appears that the MDCA boot parameters are corrupted, as has happened before in 2009 (8/12).  As permanent solution, new firmware was to be installed onto the MDCA Avionics Package.  The firmware is a “boot loader” that self-checks for corrupt boot parameters and reloads them as necessary to ensure successful booting every time.]
 
Later, Dan used a D2Xs digital camera to take high-resolution close-up photographs of the SSRMS LEE (Space Station Remote Manipulator System Latching End Effector) parked outside the Cupola in bright sunlight to clearly show the effector’s snare cables for later analysis by Robotics engineers, to establish a baseline of the state of the LEE snares for long term life trending.
 
Afterwards, Dan closed the protective shutters of the Cupola windows in order to minimize the time that shutters were open with SSRMS inside 10 ft to Cupola. 
 
At the WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) in the Lab, Burbank activated the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) laptop, so ground images can be captured by ground commanding.        [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
Kuipers conducted an inspection of all food warmers in the SNM and US Lab, taking photographs for downlinking on SSC-20.      [Found: “no power light, missing grounding strap.”]
 
Andre also performed extended maintenance on all CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units, replacing their batteries, performing the periodic zero calibration on their combustible products sensors and comparing their measurements.  
 
Later, FE-5 worked with FE-6 on the ARED resistive exerciser, replacing its frayed poly exercise rope (white) with a Vectran exercise rope (gray).       [Vectran fibers, manufactured from a liquid crystal polymer and noted for thermal stability at high temperatures, high strength and modulus, low creep and good chemical stability, are used as reinforcing (matrix) fibers for ropes, cables, sailcloth and advanced composite materials, professional bike tires, and in electronics applications.  Vectran is used as one of the five layers in NASA's EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) and was the fabric of the airbags on the Mars Pathfinder in 1997 and on the twin Mars rovers Spirit &amp; Opportunity missions in 2004.  The material is also used on NASA's 2011 Mars Science Laboratory Curiosity in the “sky crane” bridle cables.] 
 
After activating the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) and setting up the G1 camcorder in the Lab for real-time monitoring by the PI (Principal Investigator), Don Pettit configured the SLICE (Structure &amp; Liftoff In Combustion Experiment) pyrometry hardware and performed the 2<sup>nd</sup> flame test operation, preceded by pyrometry calibration using heated ceramic fibers.  The test was then conducted with 40% methane, i.e., fuel-lean flames.  Later, FE-6 installed another burner tube in the SPICE Experiment Assembly, replaced the flash/memory card with a new one and ran the flame test a second time.  Before powering off, Don performed SLICE fan calibration to evaluate the air flow.      [The research goal is to gain unique data to extend scientists’ predictive capability.  Earth application: Increased efficiency and reduced pollutant emission for practical combustion devices, improved numerical modeling, hence improved design tools, hence improved practical combustion on Earth (currently, the good modeling-experiment agreement breaks down when flames are lean or heavily sooting).  Measurements: still images (with camera that was blackbody calibrated for pyrometry), video &amp; radiometer.  Hardware:  SLICE is conducted in the MSG using the SPICE hardware.]
 
With the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) activated and the G1 camcorder set up in the Lab for real-time monitoring by the ground, Don Pettit configured the SLICE (Structure &amp; Liftoff In Combustion Experiment) pyrometry hardware and performed the 4<sup>th</sup> flame test operation, today with 20% ethylene (a contrast to the methane because3 it is much sooting).  Later, FE-6 installed another burner tube in the SPICE Experiment Assembly, replaced the flash/memory card with a new one and ran the flame test a second time.      [Last Friday’s SLICE operations were a success, and a broad range of conditions was covered. Don conducted 8 tests (flames), approximately 26 flow conditions, and the pyrometry calibration for which there were 3 conditions.  The research goal is to gain unique data to extend scientists’ predictive capability.  Earth application: Increased efficiency and reduced pollutant emission for practical combustion devices, improved numerical modeling, hence improved design tools, hence improved practical combustion on Earth (currently, the good modeling-experiment agreement breaks down when flames are lean or heavily sooting).  Measurements: still images (with camera that was blackbody calibrated for pyrometry), video &amp; radiometer.  Hardware:  SLICE is conducted in the MSG using the SPICE hardware.]
 
Pettit also supported ground activities on the ER2 GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator) freezer, powering it up from the front panel in order for POIC to start collecting data.       [Over time, GLACIER vacuum pressures degrade and affect the performance of the units.  This run time will allow ground teams to collect data in order to forecast what performance capability the units will have for future return flights.]
 
Afterwards, FE-6 reviewed the procedure for tomorrow’s scheduled installation of a reference clock for two atomic clocks of the the SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, and Reorient Experimental Satellites) experiment.     [The clocks need to be powered for at least 2 weeks prior to their use in an upcoming SPHERES test session.]
 
For upcoming more troubleshooting on the SEP (Electric Power System) Channel B Power Controller in the SM, Anatoly Ivanishin tagged up with ground specialists to review a new test procedure for continuity checks on the SEP Power Controller on channel B,  now focusing on the four SNT-50MP voltage &amp; current stabilizer boxes under the TVIS in the SM.      [This continues the investigation of the as-yet unresolved uncommanded triggering of the SEPV telemetry parameter (which deactivates the SEP Power Controller on channel B).]
 
Anatoly also conducted another 30-min photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop,
 
FE-1 &amp; FE-2 reviewed procedures for the upcoming IFM (Inflight Maintenance) of the TVIS treadmill, featuring tomorrow’s scheduled removal of the exercise machine from the pit in the SM and its subsequent major maintenance on 2/22 and 2/23,
 
Burbank had another time slot reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on the personal SSC (Station Support Computer).     [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Before Presleep, the CDR will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Before sleeptime, Kononenko will set up the battery of the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment for overnight charging.      [By means of the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka-MV-Kosmos” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and SONY HVR-Z7 HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #9, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]
 
At ~5:10am EST, the CDR powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 5:20am conducted a ham radio session with students at a special John Glenn event in Perth, Western Australia, Australia.      [Perth became known as the “City of Light” after it lit up its house lights and streetlights as Glenn passed overhead.]
 
At ~1:35pm EST, Dan Burbank &amp; Don Pettit supported a PAO TV event, participating in the NASA Future Forum at Ohio State University, Columbus, OH in honor of Senator John Glenn who was in attendance along with NASA Administrator Charles Bolden and Glenn Research Center Director Ray Lugo.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).  After his T2 session, Pettit closed down the T2 software on its laptop for data transfer, then turned off the T2 display.  Shkaplerov powered down the TVIS after his run on the treadmill, preparatory to the upcoming TVISA maintenance.
 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

