ISS On-Orbit Status 02/20/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday – Crew rest day.   Ahead:  Week 14 of Increment 26.    .  
 
Progress M-07M/39P undocked successfully from the SM (Service Module) aft port on time at 8:12am EST after hook opening command at 8:09am.  At 11:12am, the deorbit burn braked the trash-loaded cargo ship into its destructive re-entry trajectory over the Pacific Ocean.
 
FE-4 Kondratyev conducted the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dmitri will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
CDR Kelly continued his current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 8<sup>th</sup> session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
FE-5 Nespoli updated his daily diet log for his 4<sup>th</sup> six-day session for the SOLO (Sodium Loading in Microgravity) experiment, which entails diet intake loggings (low salt diet), body mass measurements and blood &amp; urine samplings.  Today’s activities by Paolo, besides diet logging, involved taking three measurements of his body mass using the Russian IMT “scale” since the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) did not work, and breaking out the PCBA (Portable Clinical Blood Analyzer) equipment for tomorrow’s scheduled blood sample collection.              [SOLO is composed of two sessions of six days each.  From Day 1 to 5 (included) Paolo ingested a special High Salt diet (which corresponds to normal ISS diet salt level), for Session 2 he switched to a Low salt diet.  SOLO Diets start with breakfast on Day 1. Day 6 of each session is diet-free.  For both diets, specially prepared meals are provided onboard.  All three daily meals are logged daily on sheets stowed in the PCBA Consumable Kit in the MELFI along with control solution and cartridges for the PCBA.  Body mass is measured with the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) on Days 4 &amp; 6.  Blood samples are taken on Day 5, centrifuged &amp; inserted in MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) and also measured with the PCBA.  24-hr urine collections are performed on Day 5, with sample insertion in MELFI.    Background:   SOLO, a NASA/ESA-German experiment from the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine in Cologne/Germany, investigates the mechanisms of fluid and salt retention in the body during long-duration space flight.  The hypothesis of an increased urine flow as the main cause for body mass decrease has been questioned in several recently flown missions.  Data from the US SLS1/2 missions as well as the European/Russian Euromir `94 &amp; MIR 97 missions show that urine flow and total body fluid remain unchanged when isocaloric energy intake is achieved.  However, in two astronauts during these missions the renin-angiotensin system was considerably activated while plasma ANP concentrations were decreased.  Calculation of daily sodium balances during a 15-day experiment of the MIR 97 mission (by subtracting sodium excretion from sodium intake) showed an astonishing result: the astronaut retained on average 50 mmol sodium daily in space compared to balanced sodium in the control experiment.]
 
In preparation for the Progress departure, FE-2 Skripochka activated &amp; verified proper operation of the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM for taking structural dynamics data during undocking.  The data were later copied to a USB stick, the archive cleared, and the data downlinked to the ground.  DAKON was then deactivated.      [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control &amp; Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]
 
Also for the undocking, FE-5 Nespoli powered down the amateur/ham radio equipment in the SM to prevent RF interference with the cargo ship, and FE-6 Coleman closed the shutters of the US Lab, Node-3/Cupola and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) to protect them against thruster effluents.      [Cady later turned the ham radio back on.]
 
After 39P departure, FE-1 Kaleri manually closed the KVD/PEV (Pressure Equalization Valve) at the SM aft port hatch.
 
Dmitri serviced the running TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) experiment in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet, downloading structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer during the 39P undocking to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.      [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.]
 
Later, FE-4 prepared the video file with the recently recorded Roskosmos TV Channel footage and downlinked it via OCA.
 
Oleg conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].
 
FE-2 also performed the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s &amp; FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.
 
Alex initiated overnight (10-hr) charging of the KPT-2 Piren battery for the Piren-V Pyro-endoscope, part of the Russian BAR science instruments suite (other BAR components being the ТТМ-2 Anemometer-Thermometer, the charger cable, and the video display unit).      [Piren-V, a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, is part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Besides Piren-V, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
At ~2:34pm EST, Cady Coleman was scheduled for a CCE (Crew Choice Event), during which she talked to Johns Hopkins students about her experiences as an ISS Astronaut and answered questions.
 
The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).      [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

