
Payloads:
Astrobatics:  Astrobatics Skins hardware was installed onto the Astrobee and the crew assisted the ground team in performing science runs.  Astrobee Maneuvering by Robotic Manipulator Hopping (Astrobatics) demonstrates the Astrobee robotic vehicles using robotic manipulators to execute a hopping or self-toss maneuver as the primary mean of propulsion, making it mostly propellantless. Astrobee performs increasingly complex maneuvers between handrails using its perching arm to demonstrate vehicle dynamic modeling and guidance and control of the robot. These maneuvers may be incorporated into future robotic missions and advanced terrestrial robotic applications.
Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) Soft Matter Dynamics & Compacted Granulars:  The ruggedized Soft Matter Dynamics (SMD) Experiment Container was installed into the FSL Rack.  FSL Soft Matter Dynamics – Hydrodynamics of Wet Foams (Foam Coarsening) aims to investigate bubble size and rearrangement dynamics for “wet foams”. Microgravity offers the opportunity to investigate such “wet” foams, which cannot be stabilized on Earth because of drainage. Moreover, microgravity conditions are essential to study rearrangement phenomena, such as coarsening and coalescence, disentangled from drainage.
ISS HAM:  An ISS HAM contact was made with Carter G. Woodson Middle School, Hopewell, Virginia.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents, and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering, and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Wireless Compose-2:  A crewmember took photos of both Communication Modules and both Processing Units of the SmartShirts.  The main scientific goal of the Wireless Communication Network (Wireless Compose-2) investigation is to provide a flexible and adaptable wireless network infrastructure to conduct and execute low-power, low-weight, and wireless experiments on the ISS.  For this demonstration, Wireless Compose-2 operates several experiments, including an experiment to examine the impact of the space environment on the cardiovascular system.  Additionally, Wireless Compose-2 demonstrates newly developed impulse radio ultra-wide- band (IR-UWB) hardware to enable precise localization applications and to analyze the energy harvesting potential on the ISS. 
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The 3A ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) Prep EVA is scheduled to take place on March 15th, and today, the crew reviewed the EVA timeline, procedures, and emergency protocols.  The crew reviewed spacesuit donning and doffing and the In-Suit Light Exercise (ISLE) pre-breathe protocols they will perform prior to egress through the Airlock. To prepare for emergencies, the crew also practiced attaching the Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) to their spacesuits.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Nitrogen Purge On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) Remove & Replace (R&R): The OGA, which is part of the Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS), produces oxygen via electrolysis using iodinated water from the Water Processing Assembly (WPA). After the team tried troubleshooting the OGA Nitrogen Purge unit with no joy, the crew performed an R&R procedure to return the system to nominal operations.
SpaceX Crew Dragon On-Board Training (OBT) Refreshers: With Crew-3 scheduled to undock next month, the crew reviewed emergency procedures involving Emergency Departure, Free-Flight Depress Response, and Free-Flight Fire Response.  These reviews provide refresher training to ensure the crew can act fast should an emergency occur.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Inspection: Today, the ISS crew completed regularly scheduled maintenance on the ARED Vibration Isolation System (VIS) Rails and Rollers, Upper Stop Cables, and X-Rotation Dashpots. The crew also provided feedback on ARED performance while the ARED Lift Bar was moving between Lower Stops and Upper Stops. This quarterly maintenance allows the ARED exercise device to keep operating nominally as well as verifying if any wear and tear exists on the hardware.
Cygnus Stowage Operations: The crew continued NG-17 Cygnus cargo operations today. They unpacked four ISS Medical Accessories Kits (IMAKs) and resupplied five ISS Medical Packs, two Ammonia Response Medical Kits, and one Specialty IMAK.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Operations: The TOCA ensures overall potable water quality by monitoring the total organic carbon (TOC) concentration levels in the Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Water Processor Assembly (WPA). Today, the crew recorded data from TOCA WPA via Water Sample Hose analysis and changed out the Waste Water Bag (WWB) as part of nominal procedures.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection: The crew inspects the AED and its associated consumables on a monthly basis.  The crew tested batteries and examined the outer AED case and AED Electrodes Kit.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: NASA developed a screening tool to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space.  The test also provides a way for NASA Flight Surgeons to be notified of any accuracy or reaction time changes in astronaut performance.  During today’s activity, WinSCAT tested the crew’s working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking, and spatial processing. This test is performed monthly.

