
Payloads:
Colgate Skin Aging: Media for specified BioCells were changed out and skin tissues samples were preserved. Deterioration of skin tissue is a normal part of aging but occurs over decades. Microgravity leads to changes in the human body very similar to aging, but these changes happen much more quickly. Microgravity Effects on Skin Aging and Health (Colgate Skin Aging) uses a 3D model of engineered human skin cells to evaluate cellular and molecular changes in microgravity. These cells may serve as a valid model to rapidly assess products aimed at protecting skin from the aging process.
MicroQuin 3D Tumor: A crewmember setup the MicroQuin 3D Tumor hardware into the LSG and performed fixations of Habitat B BioCells. Investigation of Key Signaling Cascades Involved in Tumorigenesis and Their Responsiveness to a New Therapeutic Using a 3D In Vitro Tumor Model (MicroQuin 3D Tumor) examines the effects of a drug on breast and prostate cancer cells. In microgravity, the cells can grow in a three-dimensional model, which makes it easier to characterize their structure, gene expression, and cell signaling and response to the drug. Results could provide new insight into the role of a protein in the cells that is targeted by the drug.
PK-4 (Plasma Krystall-4): Data hard drives were removed and packed for return. Plasma Krystall-4 (PK-4) is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study Transport Properties, Thermodynamics, Kinetics and Statistical Physics, and Non-linear waves and Instabilities in the plasmas.
Plant Habitat-05: A crewmember gathered hardware for the upcoming Media exchange activities and reviewed procedures. Unlocking the Cotton Genome to Precision Genetics (Plant Habitat-05) cultivates several cotton genotypes that differ in their ability to regenerate into whole plants from undifferentiated masses of cells known as a calli. Cotton is highly resistant to the process of plant regeneration, making it difficult to engineer stable, reproducing plants that have specific or enhanced traits such as drought resistance. The investigation could provide a better understanding of this behavior and a pathway to avert this problem.
Rodent Research-18 (RR-18): The Rodent Access Unit was cleaned. Astronauts returning from space can experience eye problems, along with headaches and blurred vision. Scientists suspect environmental conditions during spaceflight lead to oxidative stress that adversely affects the eye structure and function. Space Flight Environment Induces Remodeling of Vascular Network and Glia-vascular Communication in Mouse Retina (Rodent Research-18) investigates how spaceflight affects visual function, examining changes in the vascular system of the retina, tissue remodeling and cell-cell interactions in mice.
SABL (Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory): The CO2 Incubator Controller for SABL-2 was removed. The SABL supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28V D/C and 5V D/C power supplies for investigation use.
Systems:
Treadmill 2 (T2) Rack Operations: As part of ongoing troubleshooting efforts on the T2 rack, the crew rotated the rack out of its overnight stowage configuration and performed rack alignment activities. More alignment challenges were discovered during these efforts. Snubber pin alignment, rack centering, and Activation and Checkout (ACO) were deferred due to time constraints.
Emergency Simulation On-Board Training (OBT): Today, the crew participated in a training exercise for ISS fire and rapid depressurization emergency scenarios. The emergency training involved crew and ground teams working together to practice communication and coordination while the crew physically translated through ISS to the appropriate response locations to visualize the use of equipment and interfaces. A post-simulation crew conference took place to discuss and evaluate the crew/ground control responses during the training event.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued offloading science experiments, crew provisions, and hardware from the recently berthed Cygnus cargo vehicle. The Cygnus will remain at the space station until the end of May, and the crew has begun filling it with items for disposal. 
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Operations: Today the crew inspected and demated/remated the air lines from the Urine Transfer Compressor to the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Recycle Tank. Compressor data had been indicating there may be an air leak or kink in one of the lines, and the crew reconfigured the line to allow for better flow. The crew used the hose to connect the drain of the installed Recycle Tank to a Brine EDV container. The ground then controlled the drain process remotely using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). The brine in the filled EDV will be pumped into the Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) within the next few days. Once this is completed, the crew will reconfigure the Recycle Tank for daily operations.
Air Quality Monitor (AQM) Sieve Cartridge Remove and Replace: During long duration space flight, air quality monitoring in real-time instead of using return samples is especially important to ensure the safety of the crew and the health of the vehicle systems. Crew and ground teams must pay special attention to perform regular maintenance to make sure AQM sensors are not blocked by particulates. During today’s inspection, the crew vacuumed and observed no dust accumulation in the system.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Hatch Seal Cleaning: Food stains were discovered during a hatch seal inspection that took place earlier this week. The crew took full photo surveys before cleaning, after cleaning, and after the braycote application. The crew used a wet towel to remove stains.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The TOCA primarily serves as a 3rd level of redundancy safety control for the Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Water Processor Assembly (WPA) for potable water by monitoring total organic carbon (TOC) concentration levels, a general indication of overall water quality. The crew used the TOCA Water Sample Hose to perform the water analysis and record data, while minimizing the possibility of contamination. This sample analysis is performed on a weekly basis.

