
Post Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 30 Activities:  All 3 USOS crew members participated in an EVA debrief to discuss yesterday’s EVA. Wilmore and Virts completed routine post EVA medical exams.
EVA 31 Tool Configuration:  Wilmore and Virts started configuring tools in preparation for EVA 31 planned for this Sunday, March 1st.
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Preparation:  Wilmore performed the crew activities to depress and vent the JEMAL in support of the Nanorack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) deploy scheduled for Friday.
Astro Palate:  Virts retrieved a special Astro Palate prepackaged meal, consumed it as his midday meal, and then completed the Mood and Food Consumption/Satisfaction Questionnaires.  Factors Contributing to Food Acceptability and Consumption, Mood and Stress on Long-Term Space Missions (Astro Palate) studies the relationship among emotions, mood, stress and eating during spaceflight. The study explores ways to minimize stressful aspects of the eating situation so that individuals consume more food and are more satisfied with it. Additionally, the experiment examines ways to use the eating itself to reduce the stress or negative moods that crewmembers might normally experience in flight.
Aniso Tubule:  Cristoforetti prepared for the Aniso Tubule observations by retrieving a sample from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and set up on the Aquatic Habitat microscope. The sample observation is started by ground commanding after sample installation and continues over 48 hours.  Experimenters will examine growth modifications of Arabidopsis hypocotyls and the changing orientation of cortical microtubule under microgravity conditions in space. Scientists will further observe changes in dynamics of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins by observing Arabidopsis hypocotyls and microtubule-associated proteins with a fluorescence microscope.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Maintenance:  Cristoforetti performed this routine maintenance to Remove & Replace (R&R) the pre-treat tank.

