
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): Today a crewmember cleaned the sample holder and installed a sample cartridge into the ELF facility. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method. With this facility thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
TROPICAL CYCLONE: Today a crewmember performed the Tropical Cyclone camera setup to capture imagery of Typhoon Oma in the Pacific Ocean through the Cupola. The Cyclone Intensity Measurements from the ISS (Tropical Cyclone) investigation demonstrates the feasibility of studying powerful storms from space, which would be a major step toward alerting populations and governments around the world when a dangerous storm is approaching.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3006 Fan Pump Separator Return to Service Checkout: The crew performed an extensive checkout of the newly installed FPS by performing a gas leak test at the maximum operating suit pressure and a long-duration water leak test. The checkout was considered successful with no leaks detected. On January 22, the FPS in EMU 3006 failed to activate during a planned loop scrub activity.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3006 Data Recorder (EDaR) Install: The crew successfully installed EDaR onto EMU 3006. EDaR is a new system that provides real-time data storage from EMU systems and increases the rate in which EMU telemetry is sent to ground controllers. 
Robotics Operations: Overnight, Ground Robotic Controllers commanded the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to walkoff from Node 2 to the Mobile Base System (MBS) and pick up the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). This is in preparation for Materials International Space Station Experiment-Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) troubleshooting operations that are scheduled on Thursday, February 21. On December 31, 2018, MISSE-FF lost health and status data during commanding to prepare the platform for installation of new MISSE Sample Carriers (MSCs). This troubleshooting will have the SPDM soft-dock four MSCs one at a time to see if health and status returns.

