
Payloads:
Human Research Facility-2 (HRF-2): The One Terabyte Hard Drives (HDDs) were removed from the HRF-2 UltraBay and PC2 Zbook and replaced with new HDDs. The old HDDs will be trashed. HRF-2 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables human life science researchers to study and evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by spaceflight. Research performed using HRF-2 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI): Ice Bricks were inserted into MELFIs 1, 2 and 3. MELFI is a cold storage unit capable of maintaining experiment samples at ultra-cold temperatures throughout a mission. The MELFI units use nitrogen as a working fluid and have standard set points of -95°C, -35°C and 2°C.
Veg-05: The plants growing in the two Veggie facilities were inspected, watered as needed, and photographed. The plant Root Mats were filled. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
69 Soyuz Docking: The uncrewed 69S vehicle successfully docked to the MRM2 zenith port at 6:58 PM CT on Saturday, February 25th following a 33-orbit rendezvous with the ISS. 69S launched at 6:24 PM CT on Thursday, February 23rd from the Baikonur Cosmodrome. 
Crew 6 Launch Scrub: The planned launch of Crew-6 this morning at 12:45 AM CT from Launch Complex 39A at KSC was scrubbed due to a ground system issue. The next launch attempt will now occur on Wednesday, March 1 at 11:34 PM CT pending resolution of the technical issue preventing today’s launch. 
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Piping R&R: As part of regular maintenance, the crew replaced the piping between the pump separator and the dose pump. The piping is replaced every six months as a preventive measure to ensure continued performance and preclude a functional failure.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Compound Specific Analyzer – Combustion Products (CSA-CP): Today, the crew replaced the battery packs in all CSA-CPs and calibrated the units. The CSA-CPs provide real-time readings following a combustion event and subsequent clean-up efforts. The CSA-CPs are also used for continuous monitoring of carbon monoxide levels in the ISS. 
EHS Sample Operations: The crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water. The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
