
Payloads:
Advanced Plant Experiment-10 (APEX-10): The crew deactivated Veggie units 1 and 3. On Earth, plant and microbial associations are key to the success of individual plants, but scientists do not fully understand how the space environment may alter these associations. Plant-Microbe Interactions in Space (APEX-10) tests whether the beneficial microbe Trichoderma harzianum confers increased stress resilience and improved growth to seedlings of tomato plants (Lycopersicum esculentum) when the two are grown together in microgravity.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The crew completed cognition tests and ultrasound scans, and the collections were placed in cold stowage. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve the general understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate the data to apply to multi-year missions. This data could provide a deeper knowledge about the changes associated with such missions and could support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: A broken fiber was removed from the previous fiber pull, and the processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the process. Production of Flawless Space Fibers-1 tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality optical fibers in space. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
JEM Internal Ball Camera 2: The JEM Internal Ball Camera Robot 2 checkout #4 was performed by the crew for the second time. JEM Internal Ball Camera 2 demonstrates technology for automating video and photos of research activities. Crew time is one of the most valuable resources on the ISS, and many simple, repetitive tasks could be automated. This frees up crew time for more important activities.
Metal 3D Printer: Metal 3D Printer was installed inside the European Drawer Rack-2 (EDR-2). The objective of Development of an Additive Manufacturing Machine that Demonstrates the Capabilities of this Technology to Perform Metal Deposition in 3D under Sustained Microgravity Conditions and Manufacture Test Specimens (Metal 3D Printer) is to gain experience with on-orbit 3D printing of a metal shape, understanding how a Metal 3D printer is operated, and evaluating the quality of printing under in-space conditions (e.g. microgravity and radiation).
Robotic Surgery Tech Demo: Robotic Surgery Tech Demo hardware was uninstalled from the EXPRESS Rack (ER) and stowed for return. The Robotic Surgery Tech Demo tests techniques for performing robotic surgery in microgravity by using a miniature surgical robot that can be remotely controlled or teleoperated from Earth. Comparing the inflight data to data from the same tests performed on Earth could inform the design of future robotic surgical systems created to provide medical care during long-duration missions.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE): The crew gained access to the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) facility and replaced the experiment sample and igniter. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the CIR that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies and provides common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. While SoFIE initially meets the requirements of five investigations, it is intended for use by any researcher who proposes a related solid combustion study to NASA in the future. 
Vascular Aging: Vascular Aging Oral Glucose Tolerance Tests were performed by the crew. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crewmembers, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, arterial ultrasounds, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Systems:
GITAI Operations: GITAI Sortie operations continue to proceed as planned today following the successful depressurization of the NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL). The ground team began by powering up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) before unberthing NRAL from the Node 3 Port Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). Overnight, GITAI will be extracted from the NRAL internal volume and installed on external payload site D using the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). Project GITAI S2’s extraveHicular multi-Objective in-Space servicing Task demonstration (GHOST) validates the design, build, and operation of extravehicular robotics (EVR) systems using GITAI’s S2, 2-meter class, modular, robotic arm.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 3 Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew completed an R&R activity to replace the Water Recovery System (WRS) PCPA in the WRS Rack 2 (WRS2). This activity installed a previously used spare, which needed to be flushed prior to the final configuration. The PCPA pumps gasses out of the Distillation Assembly (DA) and Fluids Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) in order to reduce the internal pressure. This pressure reduction allows water in the DA to evaporate and helps the tubes within the FCPA Peristaltic Pump expand.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pump Separator R&R: The crew worked to replace the Pump Separator (MHP-HC) in the WHC. The WHC is the Energia (Russian) built ACY system that has been modified to fit within a standard USOS sized rack. The main difference between the ACY and the WHC is the interface of the WHC rack with the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) and the Potable Water Bus (PWB) for the purpose of minimizing crew manipulations with the urine and water tanks.
