
Payloads:
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-Left (CBEF-L): Switches 1 and 4 were toggled in preparation for Space Organogenesis. CBEF-L is a JAXA subrack facility, which is an upgraded to the original CBEF currently aboard the ISS.  CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional resources such as Full High-Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. 
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The crew donned the Bio-Monitor Garment and Headband, initiating a 48-hour data session. Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Isometric mid-thigh Pull measurements were also taken. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate the data to multi-year missions, such as a potential three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: Following a very successful fiber pull yesterday, the processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the series to be processed. Production of Flawless Space Fibers-1 tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality optical fibers in space. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
JEM Internal Ball Camera 2: The JEM Internal Ball Camera Robot 2 checkout #5. JEM Internal Ball Camera 2 demonstrates technology for automating video and photos of research activities. Crew time is one of the most valuable resources on the ISS, and many simple, repetitive tasks could be automated, freeing up crew time for more important activities.
Lumina (Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter): Lumina experiment setup was performed via the EveryWear application, and data was transferred via a Station Support Computer (SSC) laptop. Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, high frequency wave photons and neutrons.
Spaceborne Computer-2: Power, data, and Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) utility cable connections were performed. Spaceborne Computer-2 High Performance Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Computer System on the ISS (Spaceborne Computer-2) builds upon the successes of Spaceborne Computer. Spaceborne Computer-2 aims to explore how COTS can advance exploration by processing data significantly faster in space through edge computing and artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities.
Systems:
Columbus Condensate Water Separator Assembly 1 (CWSA1) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew replaced the subcomponents of the failed CWSA1 including the CWSA1 Condensate Filter (CWSA1 CF), Inlet Debris Screen, Fan Sub-Assembly (CWSA1 SA), Air Check Valve (CWSA1 CV), and Electronic Unit (CWSA1 EU) Orbital Replacement Units (ORUs). The COL Heat Exchanger (CHX) regulates the humidity and temperature of COL, and within the CHX system, the CWSA1 is responsible for separating out water from the CHX and sending it through the USOS condensate lines for processing.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Resize: The crew swapped the lower arms from EMUs 3003 and 3004 before staging them for return on SpX-30. Additionally, the lower arms were gathered and staged in the Airlock for return as well. The EMU is the space suit currently used by astronauts to perform an Extravehicular Activity (EVA) from the ISS Joint Airlock. It is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember performing the EVA. The EMU Lower Arm Assembly incorporates the elbow joint and wrist disconnect for these suits.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank R&R with E-К Hose Stow: The crew R&R’d the Pre-Treat Tank in the WHC and removed the pretreat tank hose to be stowed for future use. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, comprised of a mixture of acid, chromium oxide, and water. The pre-treat solution is used for toilet flushing and is required for nominal WHC operation.
