
SpaceX Demo-1 Dragon2 Training: The crew utilized a computer based trainer and reviewed procedures to refresh themselves with Dragon2 systems, rendezvous and docking, ingress operations, changes to emergency responses, and vehicle departure. SpaceX Demo-1 mission is the first unmanned demonstration flight to the ISS for the Dragon2 spacecraft. The vehicle is planned to launch from KSC atop of a Falcon 9 Block 5 rocket on March 2 at 1:48AM CT. An autonomous rendezvous and docking with manual override ability is set to occur the following day on March 3. Undocking and splashdown in the Atlantic Ocean is planned for March 8. This unmanned demonstration flight will set the stage for crewed missions in the future.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics: Today a crewmember accessed the FIR/LMM and examined the Auxiliary Fluids Container to assess damage of the Biophysics Plate 3 capillaries and to provide the ground with photography. Proteins are important biological molecules that can be crystallized to provide better views of their structure, which helps scientists understand how they work. Proteins crystallized in microgravity are often higher in quality than those grown on Earth. The Effect of Macromolecular Transport on Microgravity Protein Crystallization studies why this is the case, examining the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity.
CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack): Today a crewmember performed O2 bottle exchanges in the CIR rack facility Manifold 2 and 4 in preparation for upcoming test runs. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity. 
JEM Regenerative Heat Exchanger (RHX) Hose Insulator Installation:  Today, the crew installed an insulator to the JEM RHX hose to prevent condensate water from accumulating. Last July, the crew observed approximately 200 mL of water on the flex hose connected to the RHX within the JEM starboard endcone. The new hose insulator was subsequently manifested and flown onboard Northrop Grumman (NG)-10.

