
ISS Reboost: On Friday, February 23rd, the ISS performed a reboost using the Aft Progress 87P rendezvous and docking (R&D) thrusters. The purpose of this reboost was to set up proper phasing conditions for the upcoming Soyuz 71S launch and 70S landing in late March/early April. The burn duration was 18 minutes 25 seconds with a delta-V of 1.725 m/s.
Payloads:
Antimicrobial Coatings (Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings): The crew performed a routine, periodic touching of two of the six experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
AstroPi: USB microSD Card Readers and microSD Cards were swapped between AstroPi Vis and AstroPi IR units. Two augmented Raspberry Pi computers (called AstroPis) were flown to the ISS and are both equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detects how the station moves through space, and picks up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different types of cameras: one has an infrared camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility-Left (CBEF-L): Payload Laptop Terminal 5 (PLT5) was relocated from laptop location JPM1F7 to JPM1A2 and was connected to CBEF-L. CBEF-L is a JAXA subrack facility, which is an upgrade to the original CBEF currently onboard the ISS. CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): The Gas Bottle Unit Air valve was opened for ELF operations. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt, and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the JEM.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: Following a very successful fiber pull last week, the processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the series to be processed. Production of Flawless Space Fibers-1 tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality optical fibers in space. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
General-purpose Oceaneering Latching Device-2 (GOLD-2): The GOLD-2 was wrapped in foam and placed in a Cargo Transport Bag (CTB) in preparation for return. GOLD-2 is hardware that is designed to attach payloads to external payload platforms on the ISS via the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM).
Polar: Desiccants were swapped out for Polar units 2 and 10. A Polar is a Cold Stowage managed facility that provides transport and storage of science samples at cryogenic temperatures (-80°C) to and from the ISS. Polars operate on 75W supplied power and use air cooling as its heat rejection method. One Polar can accommodate up to 12.75 liters of sample volume and 20 lbm, including sample support equipment.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE): SoFIE-Growth and Extinction Limit (GEL) Hardware was replaced inside the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) facility. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the CIR that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. While SoFIE initially meets the requirements of five investigations, it is intended for use by any researchers who propose related solid combustion studies to NASA in the future.
Thor-Davis: AstroPi Vis was reconfigured in COL and was returned to its default configuration after completing the Thor-Davis activities. The Thor-Davis investigation aims to provide a better understanding about the impact of thunderstorms on the Earth‘s atmosphere and climate by observing them at stratospheric altitudes from the ISS. Thor-Davis evaluates a neuromorphic camera (or event camera), that can observe thunderstorms and their electrical activity at up to 100,000 frames per second. The overall goal is to better understand, under realistic conditions, the use of such a camera for future use in space for observing processes in severe electrical storms and other applications.
Systems:
NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL) Vestibule Outfitting and Pressure Management Device (PMD) Teardown: The crew tore down the PMD, including its power and data cables, and the Vacuum Access Jumper (VAJ) after NRAL was re-pressurized and leak checked following the GITAI sortie last week. Additionally, the crew opened the Node 3 Port hatch and reconfigured the NRAL vestibule, which included removing the Center Disk Cover and installing the required hardware.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Monthly Inspection: The crew completed a regular maintenance inspection to ensure the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition. The crew inspected all four Snubber Arms for any sign of free play and made necessary adjustments accordingly. The crew also performed additional inspections for Sorbothane residue on Snubber Pins, the Pin position within the Snubber Cup, and all tape and witness markings on the T2 Thumbwheels, Snubber Jam Nuts, and Cup Housing. 
Hatch Seal Inspection:  The crew cleaned and inspected the Node 1 Forward, Aft, Starboard, and Port hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surfaces, crank handle mechanisms, and hatch seal interlocking joints. When closed, hatches are used to provide a pressure seal between modules or between the ISS and the space environment. When open, they provide a translation path between modules.
