
Payloads
SABL (Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory): The crew removed the CO2 Incubator Controller from the SABL-1 unit. SABL supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28VDC and 5VDC power supplies for investigation use.
ISS HAM: The crew performed a reconfiguration of the Columbus module ISS HAM radio hardware in effort to recover transmission capability. ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Antimicrobial Coatings (Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings or AC): The crew touched each coupon on the AC placard and took photos of the experiment. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Systems
Northrop Grumman (NG)-15 Mission: The NG-15 Cygnus vehicle (S.S. Katherine Johnson) rendezvoused with the ISS and was captured by the ISS Crew utilizing the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) at 3:40 AM CT. Following capture, the Cygnus spacecraft was maneuvered and berthed to the Node 1 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) by Robotics Ground Controllers and fully integrated with the ISS. Once integrated, the crew ingressed the Pressurized Cargo Module (PCM) to transfer time critical payloads and cold bags from Cygnus to the ISS. The Cygnus NG-15 mission is part of the Commercial Resupply Services-2 (CRS-2) contract and is expected to be berthed to ISS until May 28, 2021.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Hardware Install: The crew installed a High Definition EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) and Lithium-Ion EVA Helmet Interchangeable Portable Light (EHIP) Power Adapters (LEPA) on EMU 3015. The HECA is a collaborative technology between the Gateway/xEVA Project and the ISS/EMU program.
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew removed the TOCA from the Water Recovery System (WRS) 1 Rack face and installed the New TOCA onto the front of the WRS 1 Rack. The TOCA provides capabilities to measure total organic carbon, total inorganic carbon, total carbon, pH and conductivity in water.
Airlock (A/L) Thermal Cover Hardware Preparation: The crew installed a Tether Extension Assembly (D-Ring Extender) onto the A/L Cover Stiffener to act as a safe tether location for temporary stowage of the A/L Cover Strap and Hook. During this activity, the crew also measured and marked the A/L Cover Stiffener Strap, removed an unnecessary grounding wire, and removed all launch packaging. The A/L Thermal Cover hardware is planned to be installed during an upcoming EVA in order to fix the current cover which is mishappen and provide better protection for the A/L structure.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank R&R: The crew R&R’d the Pre-Treat Tank as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.

