
Cube Satellite (CubeSat) Operations and Deploys: This morning, Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata depressurized the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock, opened the outer hatch and extended the slide table out to the JEM Exposed Facility (JEF) on the exterior of the ISS. JAXA Flight Controllers removed the 8 NanoRacks CubeSat Deployers (NRCSDs) from the slide table utilizing the JEM Remote Manipulator System (RMS) and moved them to their deploy position.  Two Cubesats were then successfully launched from one of these NRCSDs.  Later this week, 15 additional Cubesats will be launched from the remaining NRCSDs. CubeSat format satellites are launched from the ISS for a variety of commercial and national customers.
Aniso Tubule Light Treatment: Wakata retrieved the Aniso Tubule sample for the fourth run from a MELFI and attached a Ziplock bag containing the Sample Chamber onto a Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) door to expose it to light.  Later he inserted the Sample Chamber into a light proof bag.  Later this week, the sample will be retrieved and placed on the Multi Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) fluorescent microscope for a 48 hour observation.  JAXA’s  Aniso Tubule experiment investigates the roles of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins in gravity-induced growth modification of plant stems.
Material Science Laboratory (MSL) Solidification and Quench Furnace (SQF) Sample Cartridge Exchange:  FE-5 Mastracchio removed a sample cartridge that had completed processing from the SQF and replaced it with Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions  (MICAST)-2 test sample 13. The removed sample will be returned to the ground for analysis.  This investigation aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. The patterns of the crystals resulting from transitions of liquids to solids is of substantial importance to processes in producing materials such as solar cells, thermoelectrics, and metal alloys.
JEM Internal Thermal Control Systems (ITCS) Maintenance: FE-3 Hopkins installed an ITCS Maintenance Canister in the JEM today.  All USOS module ITCSs (except Node 2) contain a biocide called Ortho-Phthalaldehyde (OPA).  This biocide degrades naturally over time and in order to replenish it, a maintenance canister must be installed in line with the ITCS allowing fluid to flow through it for a set amount of time. It will then will be removed and stowed.  JEM is currently near its lower limit for OPA.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) 3010 Pump Inlet Filter Remove and Replace (R&R): Mastracchio replaced the Pump Inlet Filter for EMU 3010. The old filter will be returned to the ground on Soyuz 36S to help investigate the various hardware and water sources that may have contributed to the water anomaly failure of EMU 3011.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Clean: Hopkins cleaned the Port CQ intake and exhaust ducts as well as fan and flow sensors. The activity is performed once every 6 months as preventive maintenance.
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Fault – During last night’s process cycle, the WPA annunciated a Process 3 Fault.  It is believed that the signatures seen are indicative of a Catalytic Reactor leak.  Console operators took the WPA to stop mode.   Ground teams are assessing the problem.

