All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – rest day for CDR Fincke, FE-1 Lonchakov &amp; FE-2 Magnus.
 
 The crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 As part of the house cleaning, Lonchakov conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3) and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9).
 
 Yuri also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]
 
 In JAXA's Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-2 Magnus supported SSIPC/Tsukuba (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center)'s with the RadGene payload by terminating the experiment's first operation after seven days of incubation in the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) without crew intervention.    [Today's supportive steps included removing four sets of MEUs (Measurement Experiment Units) from the CBEF Micro-G Incubator, mixing the culture medium and reagent in the CBs (Culture Bags), then stowing the CBs in their holders in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) after cell fixture treatment for storage.  Afterwards, RadGene and LOH post-incubation ops were closed out in the SAIBO Rack. RadGene is a two-part investigation addressing genetic alterations in immature immune cells: The first part, LOH, uses lymphoblastoid (immature immune) cells to detect potential changes on the chromosome after exposure to cosmic radiation.  The second, RadGene, looks for changes in gene expression of p53 (a tumor suppressive protein) after cosmic radiation exposure.  Future crewmembers will benefit from the data obtained in this investigation by understanding the effects of radiation on human cells, which can lead to the development of new countermeasures.  The data is also applicable in the medical field in the areas of immunology and cancer research.  A cell line from the human lymphoblastoid family of TK6 which can be grown as a suspension culture, was frozen on Earth in plastic bags.  After the launch in the freezer, the cells were kept frozen in MELFI, then defrosted and cultivated using CBEF at 37 degC for 7 days, then frozen again today up to recovery.  After recovery, cells will be analyzed for radiation effects with microgravity with DNA array assay and LOH mutation assay.]
 
 Afterwards, Sandra Magnus stopped the JEM CGSE (Common Gas Support Equipment) carbon dioxide gas supply by closing supply valves on the upper CO2 GBU (Gas Bottle Units) and upper/lower CO2 VUs (Valve Units), then photo documented the final valve configuration.
 
 For their VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) program, the CDR &amp; FE-2 had another EPO (Educational Payload Operations) session on their schedule, today dealing with a demonstration of science research aboard the station be discussing CEO (Crew Earth Observations) activities, the Expedition Earth and Beyond program, and Earth geography.
 
 For the next Russian Orlan spacewalk, EVA 21A, FE-1 Lonchakov had two hours set aside for cleaning out the “Pirs” DC-1 (Docking Compartment 1) and PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment) as well as starting the extensive process of collecting &amp; configuring the equipment required for the EVA, going by an uplinked 9-page list of instructions, while tracking moves in the IMS (Inventory Management System).    [EVA-21A is currently scheduled for 3/11, with hatch open at ~12:50pm, to last an estimated 5h 30m.] 
 
 CDR Fincke had 10 min set aside to fill out his surgeon-provided BRASLET-Anketa (bracelet questionnaire) for his session on 2/26 with BRASLET (Validation of On-Orbit Methodology for the Assessment of Cardiac Function and Changes in the Circulating Volume Using Ultrasound and BRASLET-M Occlusion Cuffs).
 
 At ~8:45am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 At ~2:45pm, the FE-2 has her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 The station residents completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 Working off the Russian discretionary “time permitting” suggestions list, the FE-1 conducted another session for Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.
 
 
