
Change of Command Ceremony: Today, the ISS Crew participated in a Change of Command Ceremony. During this ceremony Expedition 46 Commander Scott Kelly handed over command of the ISS to Expedition 47 Commander Tim Kopra.   Kelly, Volkov, and Kornienko will be returning to earth tomorrow evening onboard Soyuz 44.
 
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Max:  For his Flight Day 75 Sprint VO2 Max session, Kopra attached Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes to himself, set up and donned Heart Rate Monitor hardware, performed Portable Pulmonary Function System calibrations, and then completed the VO2 protocol.  The Sprint VO2 investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers while reducing total exercise time during long-duration space missions.
 
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack 2 (MSPR2) Microgravity Measurement Apparatus (MMA) Installation:  To prepare for upcoming operations for the JAXA Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF), Peake installed the MMA Remote Sensor Units and MMA Triaxial Acceleration Assembly in the MSPR2 rack.
 
Habitability:  Today Peake recorded a video of his walk-through of an area or activity and provided insights related to human factors and habitability.  The Habitability investigation results will be used to assess the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as near earth asteroids and Mars. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions can help spacecraft designers determine how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Twins Study:  In support of the Twins Study, Kelly continued his series of week-long return minus 14 day saliva and blood collections.  This investigation is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of them experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body that are important in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
Fine Motor Skills:  Kelly, Kopra, Peake and Kornienko each completed a session of the Fine Motor Skills experiment today.  They performed a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
 
Ras Labs-CASIS-ISS Project for Synthetic Muscle: Resistance to Radiation (Synthetic Muscle):  Kopra obtained a set of historical photos of the synthetic muscle samples.  The purpose of this investigation is to measure the effects of radiation on proprietary synthetic muscle materials in space and earth environments. Robots made of these materials could provide assistance to humans in space, enhance survivability of robots during deep space travel, and provide support in extreme radiation environments on Earth.
 
Russian Treadmill (БД-2) Repair – БД-2 experienced a failure in the vibration isolation system, late in the crew day Friday.  Upon evalution, it was determined that the left rear torsion bracket had failed.  Over the weekend, the crew replaced the bracket.  The right front and right rear brackets had been replaced in October 2015.  БД-2 is go for nominal usage.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Stowage Frame Installation Part 2:  Peake continued the assembly and installation of the JEM Stowage Frame.  Once fully installed, the frame will increase JEM stowage capability by 12 Cargo Transfer Bag Equivalents (CTBE).
 
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review:  Kopra and Peake reviewed and discussed priorities in the event of an emergency and how to achieve safety of the crew as well as safe configuration of the ISS.  Topics which were covered included crew actions during emergency retreat to the Soyuz, ISS Commander responsibilities, and communication and coordination among crew members and with ground teams.
 
Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning:  Over the weekend, Kornienko cleaned his Overhead CQ and Kelly cleaned his Port CQ today. The activity included cleaning of the intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors.
 

