
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): A crewmember completed a 13-hour blood pressure measurement session. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate the data to multi-year missions, such as a potential three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about the changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 10B (ER10B) Troubleshooting: The RS-232 Cable was reconfigured in order to troubleshoot errors with the ER10B Ballard Box. The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: Following a very successful fiber pull yesterday, the processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the series to be processed. Production of Flawless Space Fibers-1 tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality optical fibers in space. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
Systems:
Space Test Program – Houston 7 (STP-H7) Relocation: The ground robotics team attempted to use the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to grasp and extract STP-H7 Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) from the COL-Exposed Platform Facility (COL-EPF) Starboard Deck X-Direction (SDX) and install on Starboard Overhead Zenith (SOZ); however, an issue was encountered with completing the install on SOZ. The ground teams are working to reinstall STP-H7 on SDX.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Heat Exchanger (HX) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew began the second day of a 3-day project to swap out the Airlock CCAA HX and prepare it for return on the upcoming SpX-30 Cargo Dragon mission. This project will involve all crewmembers at different times throughout the process. Today’s activities included rotating the Airlock rack down, removing the old CCAA HX, swapping over the necessary hoses, and the installation the new CCAA HX. The CCAA circulates, cools, and dehumidifies air in the Lab, Node 2, Node 3, and the Airlock.
Crew Departure Preparations for Return to Earth: The Endurance Crew conducted preparations for their return home on March 8th. The crew gathered items and stowed them in the SpaceX Crew Dragon Vehicle. Each crewmember helps out at a different times throughout the day. Over the next week, crew will be gathering science, payloads, and hardware into the Crew-7 vehicle to be returned safely back to the ground. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
