
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The Bio-Monitor hardware was changed out and eventually stowed after a 48-hour measurement session. The Blood Pressure Measurement session was also completed and the hardware was doffed and stowed. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate the data to multi-year missions, such as a potential three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): The Gas Bottle Unit Air valve was closed, preventing option gas leakage. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt, and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in the JEM.
EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 10B (ER10B): The Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) flow was manually adjusted to the new target flow rate setting on ER10B. The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: Following a very successful fiber pull yesterday, the processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the series to be processed. Production of Flawless Space Fibers-1 tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality optical fibers in space. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
Systems:
Space Test Program – Houston 7 (STP-H7) Relocation: Yesterday, the ground robotics team attempted to use the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to grasp and extract STP-H7 Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) from the COL-Exposed Platform Facility (COL-EPF) Starboard Deck X-Direction (SDX) and install on Starboard Overhead Zenith (SOZ); however, an issue was encountered with completing the install on SOZ. Following three unsuccessful installation attempts to the SOZ site, the STP-H7 FRAM was successfully reinstalled to the SDX site. The ground team continues to evaluate the reason for this issue and develop a forward plan.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Port Cleaning: The crew cleaned the Port CQ Intake and Exhaust Ducts, Fans, and Airflow Sensors to remove any dust or blockages. This cleaning is in preparation for the upcoming arrival of Crew-8. All USOS Crew-7 crewmembers are responsible for performing a nominal cleaning of their CQ prior to the crew handover, and the Deck and Overhead CQ cleanings are planned for tomorrow. Crew-8 is currently planned to launch on Saturday, March 2nd, at approximately 10:16 PM CST and arrive at the ISS on Sunday, March 3rd, at approximately 1:15 PM CST. 
Crew-7 Undock Onboard Training (OBT): The Crew-7 crewmembers completed an OBT in preparation for their upcoming undock from the ISS and return to Earth. Following tablet retrieval from the Dragon suit satchels, the crew utilized training materials in order to refamiliarize themselves with the undocking procedure. Crew-7 is currently planned to undock from the ISS on Saturday, March 9th.
Emergency Equipment Staging: The crew performed several actions to gather, restow, and audit items related to preparing the ISS Emergency hardware for transfer to the arriving Crew-8 Crew Dragon. Such items included Emergency Masks, an Emergency Air Supply Tank, and Quick Don Mask Assemblies (QDMAs). 
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
