
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites Smoothing-Based Relative Navigation (SPHERES SmoothNav): The crew set up and performed a SPHERES SmoothNav test session. The SPHERES test plan consists of 12 different possible tests that can be performed in order to meet the objectives for the session. SmoothNav uses an estimation algorithm that obtains the most probable estimate of the relative positions and velocities between multiple spacecraft using available sensor information. The algorithm is portable between different satellites with different onboard sensors, adapts to one or more satellites becoming inoperable, and is tolerant to delayed measurements or measurements received at different frequencies. 
Vection: Today the crew deployed the Vection support hardware (including the Free-float restraint system), performed the experiment sessions, then stowed the hardware. The experiment sessions are broken into three tasks consisting of Orientation Perception, Relative Height (Motion Processing), and Depth Perception (Vection). The objective of The Effect of Long Duration Hypogravity on the Perception of Self-Motion (Vection) study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment; how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
NotOreo Space Station Computer (SSC) Service Pack: Flight Controllers successfully deployed the NotOreo SSC Service Pack today. This “mini” service pack contains changes originally included in the Oreo Service Pack, but needed onboard ISS prior to planned Oreo deploy in June. NotOreo will update the SSCs with Soyuz 58S Crew account for Christina Koch. Both Aleksey Ovchinin and Nick Hague’s accounts were included in a previous SSC update. NotOreo also includes new software in support Commercial Space Transportation (CST)-100 Crew monitoring, BioFabrication Facility (BFF), miniPCR, minKNOW, Arcturus Adlink Mini PC improvements, and new Adlink mini-PC Tea test application.
Robotic Operations: Yesterday afternoon, Robotics Flight Controllers maneuvered the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from the Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 2 to MBS PDGF 1. They then walked the Space Station Robotic Manipulator System (SSRMS) from MBS PDGF 4 to Node 2 PDGF. Once complete, they relocated the SPDM from MBS PDGF 1 to the LAB PDGF in preparation for the SpaceX Demo1 surveys planned next week. The final activity for the evening included an International Docking Adapter (IDA) seal survey with the SSRMS Tip Latching End Effector (LEE) camera.

