
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) Controller Replacement: The crew replaced one of the ACME fuel flow controllers. This was a nominally planned activity and allows different flow conditions to be observed. Following the completion of the activities, the crew photo documented the final configuration of ACME Chamber Insert. The ACME series being performed in the Combustion Integrated Rack includes five independent studies of gaseous flames, with the Burning Rate Emulator (BRE) experiment currently active. The BRE experiment runs are focused on spacecraft fire prevention. More specifically, BRE’s objective is to improve our fundamental understanding of materials flammability and to assess the relevance of existing flammability test methods for low and partial-gravity environments. 
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM) Mission 65 Conclusion: Today the crew shut down the EarthKAM software and stowed the equipment. Several errors were experienced during the run, however, as of the last report, 6,475 images had been successfully downlinked and posted to the web. Also as of the last report, a total of 247 schools representing 22,061 students and 29 countries had signed up to request images. This includes 39 students from 4 Russian schools.  EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world. 
Neuromapping: The crew set up and performed the NeuroMapping experiment, which included testing in both “strapped in” and “free floating” body configurations. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation includes use of structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub: The crew performed ionic and particulate filtration scrubbing and biocidal maintenance iodination of EMUs 3003, 3008 and Airlock cooling water loops. Conductivity readings and a water sample was also taken from the cooling loop. In addition, EMU 3003 was configured with an EMU Flowmeter for a flow test in a later activity. A visual inspection of EMU 3008 Gas Trap and Pump Inlet Filter was performed to confirm no water leakage. Towards the end of the day, they installed an EMU impact shield onto the EMU Data Recorder (EDAR) already installed on EMU 3008.
SpaceX Demo-1 Dragon2 Training: The crew continued their familiarization training today by utilizing a computer based trainer to review Dragon2 rendezvous operations. SpaceX Demo-1 mission is the first unmanned demonstration flight to the ISS for the Dragon2 spacecraft. The vehicle is planned to launch from KSC atop of a Falcon 9 Block 5 rocket on March 2 at 1:49 AM CT. An autonomous rendezvous and docking with manual override ability is set to occur the following day on March 3. Undocking and splashdown in the Atlantic Ocean is planned for March 8. This unmanned demonstration flight will set the stage for crewed missions in the future.

