ISS On-Orbit Status 02/28/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      
 
After breakfast, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Also before breakfast &amp; exercise, FE-4 Kononenko &amp; FE-5 Kuipers each completed a 10-min session with the periodic Russian MedOps test MO-10 "Hematokrit", which measures the red cell count of the blood, with one of them acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer, Russian: “Examiner”).  Oleg then stowed the equipment.  It was the 2<sup>nd</sup> session for both of them.       [The blood samples were drawn from a finger with a perforator lancet, then centrifuged in two microcapillary tubes in the M-1100 kit's minicentrifuge, and its Hematocrit value was read off the tubes with a magnifying glass.  It is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell count (normal range: 30-45%) tends to go down over time.  After the exam, the data were saved in the IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).]
 
Oleg also did the (currently daily) inspection of the KOB2 cooling loop in the SM, checking a liquid connector on the 4SPN2 panel for coolant leaks.     [In case there were any large droplets (10-20 cm<sup>3</sup>), FE-2 was to report to TsUP-Moscow.]
 
FE-2 Ivanishin conducted the routine verification of yesterday’s refreshes of the IUS AntiVirus program on all Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2.         [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the recent SSCV4 software update.  Before the installation on 8/8/11 of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.  On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops.  Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
In the JAXA Kibo laboratory, FE-6 Pettit serviced the running BCAT-6 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-6) by replacing the BCAT-6 battery early in the morning with a fresh one and repeating the replacement about 8 hrs later.       [The NIKON D2Xs with EarthKAM software running on an SSC laptop takes automated flash photography controlled by the software, photographing Sample 5 (homogenized on 2/27) once every two hours for seven days.  Crew performs three camera battery changes and a camera check each day. The camera battery changes are scheduled to be performed approximately every 8 hours per Mike Fossum’s recommendation during past BCAT-6 activities.]
 
Also in JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Don Pettit later conducted another session with the CFE-2 VG1 (Capillary Flow Experiments 2 / Vane Gap 1) experiment, first preparing the MWA WSA (Maintenance Work Area \ Work Surface Area) and then running the 2-hr test with the VG1 “A” vessel.  The session was monitored from the ground in HD (high definition) video via MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter), and the equipment was afterwards torn down and stowed away.         [CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  To predict the behavior of liquids in microgravity, one tool scientists use is an open-source computer program called SE-FIT (Surface Evolver Fluid Interface Tool), which is an accurate predictor of the liquid-surface shape in space.  For the CFE experiment, engineers are using SE-FIT to predict the behavior of liquids with varying test container shapes. The program's predicted liquid-gas behavior has explained extremely small changes or even imperfections in container shape during the on-orbit study that led to large changes in liquid behavior.  By using these predictions, engineers can design tanks &amp; equipment to keep the fluids flowing with the correct distribution of liquids &amp; gases in microgravity.  This also means that under certain conditions pumps and other mechanical equipment, such as centrifuges or thruster firings, will not be necessary to move liquids through the plumbing structure of space vehicles.  VG1 is one of three CFE experiments, the others being ICF (Interior Corner Flow) and CL (Contact Line).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]  
 
Supporting POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), Dan Burbank uninstalled &amp; removed the three protective alignment guides from the rack, re-engaged the snubber pins and locked the safety pins to allow the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be active before begin of ground-commanded CIR operations requiring a microgravity environment. 
 
Working on the Lab MWA WSA, the CDR had ~4h 10m set aside for installing the EPIC (Enhanced Processor &amp; Integrated Communications) upgrade on the PL-2 (Payload 2) MDM (Multiplexer/Demultiplexer) computer, replacing the EIOCU cards.       [Activities included removing the MDM from the AV-3 (Avionics-3) Rack, installing the new EPIC card, Ethernet Cable, and MDM front cover, and replacing the MDM into the AV-3 Rack.  The upgrade of PL-1 MDM will follow tomorrow (2/29), after PL-2 has been promoted to primary. Also tomorrow, patches will be loaded to the PCS (Portable Computer System) laptops.  On 3/1, the PMM MDM software will be upgraded to version 1.3.  Since there is only one PMM MDM, the PMM will be briefly deactivated during the software transition.]
 
Shkaplerov &amp; Kononenko performed Day 2 operations on converting the two Russian Chibis suits (PVK-1, PVK-2) to the advanced version Chibis-M, using components delivered in a Chibis-M Kit.       [After yesterday’s modifications of the devices, Anton &amp; Oleg today made electrical connections with the PVK-D hose bundle, mating the suits’ PVK-D pressure control unit to the SM TLM telemetry (after the ground had temporarily turned off the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and VD-SU control mode).  The Chibis-M units were then powered up, tested for several pressure settings (2 min/15 mmHg, 2 min/25 mmHg, 1 min/25 mmHg) and photographed for subsequent imagery downlink.  The specially designed PVK “Chibis” suit, known as LBNP (Lower Body Negative Pressure) device at NASA, applies suction on the lower body ranging from 10 to 60 mm Hg, thereby exerting a functional loading roughly equivalent to 10-60 kg of force on the musculoskeletal system to test the body’s adaptation to prolonged exposure to microgravity.  Thus, its basic function is the opposite of a G-suit.  Instead of pushing blood and fluids away from the legs back toward torso and head, the Chibis suit draws fluid back down to the legs, in order to counteract the tendency of fluids to accumulate in the head in weightlessness.  Chibis is also sometimes used post-flight for recovery after long flights.  Chibis means 'Lapwing' in Russian.  The suit has a mass of 8.7 kg; the vacuum attachment adds another 3.7 kg.]
 
FE-5 Kuipers began the transition of the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) to new T61p laptops and Cycle 13 (C13) software, today tackling Phase 1, viz.: setting up the PWS1 &amp; PWS1 (Portable Workstation 1 &amp; 2) laptops.  Working on the two new T61p laptops in sequence, André “ghosted” (cloned) the T61p image, setting up CMOS (Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor) with BIOS (Basic Input/Output System), then initiating complete software reloads.  The activities were monitored &amp; assisted by the ground via VCA2 (Video Camera Assembly 2) focused on the T61p screens.     [The C13 transition of COL will take place in the upcoming weeks.  In addition to upgrading the COL PWSs, the nominal DMS (Data Management System) software will be upgraded in Phase 2 (4/3), and COL will then be finally integrated into the JSL (Joint Station LAN) in Phase 3.]
 
Ivanishin had ~1h to replace old stowage bags with IMV (Intermodule Ventilation) components (fan, air duct, VN unit) with three new bags (one each for DC1, MRM1, MRM2), disposing of the old containers after repacking their contents. 
 
Anatoly also started out on a major IFM (Inflight Maintenance), viz., removing old SMOK condensate lines (smennykh magistralej otkaachki kondensata) of the SOTR Thermal Control System in the SM and replacing them with new spares (last time done: August 2010).      [After ~1,.5 hrs of preparations, gathering and preparing new pipelines, connectors, T-joints and all necessary tooling, FE-2 replaced SMOK sections between the SKV1 air condition unit’s BTA heat exchanger-evaporator and the NOK1 condensate evacuation pump, supported by ground specialist tagup. The IFM will continue until 3/3.]
 
Working in the SM on the RS (Russian Segment) TVS video system, Oleg Kononenko replaced the old ZVK LIV Experimental Video Complex monitor with a new MAK-001 monitor.      [After powering off, the LIV video monitor was removed from panel 426 and prepacked for disposal.  The MAK-001 unit was then installed on panel 408, connected to TVS and checked out by capturing video from three cameras: the Kl-154M (Klest 154M) in the SM, the Kl-153M in MRM1 and the SONY HVR-Z7E camcorder.  Oleg took documentary photography for subsequent downlink and reported to the ground.]
 
Don Pettit set up the MSPR CC (Multipurpose Small Payload Rack / Combustion Chamber) in the JAXA JPM for a power checkup scheduled tomorrow, to be controlled from the ground.
 
After reviewing procedural material, CD Burbank &amp; FE-5 Kuipers conducted another NASA EPO (Education Payload Operations) demonstration, using CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) of various sizes to show how by changing the dimensions of the bag one can change the volume it can hold.      [The ISSVolume demo was recorded on high-definition G1 camcorder tape for later downlink via MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) for educational use.]
 
Working on the Russian high-speed RSPI Data Transmission Radio link, FE-1 Shkaplerov completed the upgrading of its BZU Onboard Memory Device with newly-uplinked software files, started yesterday.
 
FE-5 used the CSA-O<sub>2</sub> (Compound Specific Analyzer-O<sub>2</sub>) units (#1043, #1048) to take oxygen partial pressure readings in the Lab (22.5%) and COL (22.5% &amp; 22.4%).
 
André also serviced the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) workout machine, performing periodic maintenance by evacuating its cylinder flywheels to reestablish proper vacuum condition &amp; sensor calibration.
 
Anatoly, Oleg &amp; Anton again had several hours reserved for unloading Progress 46P and transferring its cargo to the ISS while logging moves in the IMS (Inventory Management System).
 
Later, FE-2 performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Anatoly also took care of the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
At ~9:00am EST, after reviewing uplinked background material, Burbank &amp; Pettit conducted a “housekeeping” teleconference with ground specialists, discussing their specific housekeeping tasks and how they manage them.      [MCC-Houston is working to update housekeeping procedures to better suit the crew’s needs, for example, identifying tasks separately for each module.  Crew feedback is required on how long they realistically spend on housekeeping each week and if the time provided on Saturday mornings is enough to accomplish all the tasks and locations in the Housekeeping Tasks procedure.]
 
Dan &amp; Don had another time slot reserved each for making entries in their electronic Journals on the personal SSC.     [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
At ~3:25pm, the crew is scheduled for their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office/CB (Peggy Whitson), via S-band S/G-2 audio &amp; phone patch.
 
Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Dan will turn MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).      [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND leg muscle self scan in COL.  Today’s exercise called for T2, with ARED+T2 &amp; CEVIS following in the next 2 days.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.]
 
Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on Lake Baikal, Kolka Glacier, Volga River Delta, the Caspian Sea, the volcanoes Hudson, Aetna, Stromboli, Hierro, Poas and Arenal, the Allalin Glacier and Darwin Island,
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).</li></ul> 
Conjunction Update:   The two conjunctions with Object 28471 (Chinese CZ-4B rocket body) has now been reduced to one in the FD (Flight Director) notification box: tomorrow (Wednesday) at a TCA (Time of Closest Approach) of 7:41am EST.  The prior ISS reboost tomorrow will provide separation from the object in excess of FR (Flight Rule) requirements.
 
ISS Reboost:   A one-burn reboost of the ISS will be performed tomorrow at 5:12am EST using the two KD engines of the SM’s ODU (Integrated Propulsion System) for a burn duration of 1m 16s and a planned Delta-V of 1.2 m/s, increasing mean altitude by 2.11 km.  The purpose of the reboost is to set up proper phasing for Progress 47P launch, Soyuz 29S undock/landing &amp; Soyuz 30S launch.
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Asmara, Eritrea (CAPITAL CITY COLLECTION.   Looking right of track, well inland behind the coastal mountains/escarpment.  A prominent bay on the Red Sea coast is a major downtrack visual cue. The forested escarpment is the local visual cue.  Because it is such a low-contrast feature, it was suggested that the crew start mapping photography as they approached the target, continuing as it pass over it), Conakry, Guinea (CAPITAL CITY COLLECTION.   Nadir pass over this capital, port and largest city of Guinea [estimated population ~2 million].  The circular reef and prominent cape where the city is located are the cues on this part of the West African coastline), Mt. Etna, Sicily (looking right for Mount Etna, a major feature on the northeast tip of Sicily.  Etna erupted a lava flow in mid-February.  CEO researchers are also interested in plume events, which are quite common. Trying to capture the source and extent of any plume.  Mt Etna is the largest active volcano in Europe with an elliptical base of 38 x 47 km, and a summit elevation of ~3350 m.  Mt Etna has the longest period of documented eruptions in the world), Tirane, Albania (CAPITAL CITY COLLECTION.   Near nadir pass.  Looking inland from the coast for this capital city of 620,000.  The city is a light-toned zone set in a valley between forested mountain slopes), San Jose, Costa Rica (CAPITAL CITY COLLECTION.   Looking left for this capital city of 365,000 [metro area 1.7 million].  San Jose and neighboring cities occupy the cooler coffee-growing Central Valley, just inland from the Pacific coastline.  A line of active volcanoes fringe the city immediately to the north.  At its narrowest, Costa Rica is only 75 miles wide), and Washington, D.C. (CAPITAL CITY COLLECTION.   Looking right of track for our nation’s capital.  Visual cues are DC’s light-toned irregular cityscape, Chesapeake Bay, and the tan-colored Potomac River estuary).
 

