All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – rest day for CDR Fincke, FE-1 Lonchakov &amp; FE-2 Magnus.
 
 The crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 As part of the house cleaning, Lonchakov conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3) and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9).  
 
 Additionally, the FE-1 checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM's SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP-Moscow, and cleaning the pre-filter in the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystem with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment.
 
 Lonchakov serviced the RS (Russian Segment) radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), setting up new Bubble dosimeters for recording radiation traces, initializing and deploying the detectors.  Proper function of the setup was later verified with the LULIN-5 electronics box.    [A total of eight Bubble dosimeter detectors (A01-A08) were initialized in the Bubble dosimeter reader in the SM and positioned at their exposure locations, three in the spherical “Phantom” unit on the DC1 panel and five in the SM (two in starboard crew cabin on both sides of the MOSFET (metal oxide semiconductor field-effect transistor) dosimeter detector unit, two under the work table, and one at panel 410).  The setup was photo-documented with the NIKON D2X camera and also reported to TsUP via log sheet via OCA.  The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls.]
 
 Magnus completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.]
 
 For today's discretionary VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) program, the crew had selected another session with the new US payload SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment), performed in the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), controlled by its A31p laptop with SPICE microdrives.  Mike &amp; Sandy each conducted six test points using Propane (#25-30; #31-36).   [SPICE determines the point at which gas-jet flames (similar to a butane-lighter flame) begin to emit soot (dark carbonaceous particulate formed inside the flame) in microgravity.  Studying a soot emitting flame is important in understanding the ability of fires to spread and in control of soot in practical combustion systems in space.]
 
 At ~9:30am EST, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 At ~1:16pm, CDR Fincke powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 1:21pm conducted a ham radio session with students at Erie Planetarium, Erie, PA.    [The Erie Planetarium is operated by the Erie County Historical Society.  It began programming in the winter of 1959/1960 making it one of the oldest planetariums still in operation. It serves thousands of school groups, scout groups, private functions and hosts the local national astronomy day festivities. The planetarium has worked with astronaut Mike Fincke on various occasions.   Questions were uplinked beforehand.  :”Do you play checkers in space and how do you keep them from floating away?”; “Do you celebrate the holidays when you are in space?”; “How do you sleep in space?”; “How do you workout in space?”; “How do you recycle water?”; “How often do you get to see &amp; talk to your family while you're in space?”; “Is it scary on the outside of the space station?”; “Have you seen the Hubble Telescope from the station?”; “What does the moon look like from space?”; “How fast does your ship impact Earth when you land?”]
 
 The FE-1 &amp; FE-2 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Yuri at ~10:30am, Sandy at ~1:37pm.
 
 Mike also completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC (Station Support Computer) laptops.
 
 The station residents completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR, FE-2), TVIS treadmill (FE-1), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1).
 
 Working off the Russian discretionary “time permitting” suggestions list, the FE-1 conducted another session for Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.
 
 
