
The ISS Experience: Today a crewmember performed the ISS Experience camera setup in the Node-3 to capture a recording session of nominal crew activities. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the space station. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved.  The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic VR (Virtual Reality) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Materials Science Research Rack-1 (MSRR-1): Today a crewmember performed troubleshooting steps for the MSRR facility in order to verify connectivity between the facility and the Master Controller. The MSRR-1 is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. MSRR-1 can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules (EMs). Many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
JAXA Mouse Mission: A crewmember performed a configuration change for the upcoming SpaceX-17 mission. This involved installing new ammonia sensors and the Micro-G interface units and setting the connections to allow the ground to perform checkouts. The purpose of this mission is to analyze any alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term space environment.
Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMU) 3006 Loop Scrub, and Iodination: Following this week’s Fan Pump Separator replacement, the crew performed EMU 3006 water loop scrub and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity. EMU Loop Scrubs are required preventive maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU transport loop.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pump Separator Replacement:  Today the crew reported that the Check Pump Separator indicator light could no longer be cleared using troubleshooting procedures. Ground specialists declared the hardware failed and the crew completed the replacement using an on-board spare.  The Pump Separator and WHC System is now performing nominally.
Robotic Operations:  Yesterday afternoon, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm2 as required to un-stow the Robot Micro Conical Tool #2 (RMCT2) from the SPDM Tool Holder Assembly (THA). Then they maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and SPDM to the start position for the Material on ISS Experiment (MISSE) troubleshooting activities scheduled later today.

