
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II: Kopra completed flame tests for the BASS-II investigation.  BASS-II examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The results of the BASS-II experiment will be used in the development of strategies for flammability screening of materials to be used in spacecraft as well as to provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity.  BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
 
Twins Study:  In support of the Twins Study, Kelly continued his week-long Return minus 14 day daily saliva collections.  This investigation is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of them experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body that are important in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
Space Headaches:  Peake completed his Weekly Space Headaches questionnaire today.  Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. This experiment will provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space.
 
Soyuz 44 (44S) Nominal Descent Drill #2:  The 44S Crew (Kelly, Kornienko, and Volkov) participated in a nominal Soyuz Decent Drill.  As part of the training they reviewed preliminary undocking and descent data and worked through the descent timeline from Soyuz activation through post-landing activities.  The 44S crew is scheduled to return to Earth next Tuesday, 01 March.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Stowage Frame Installation:  Peake initiated the assembly and installation of the JEM Stowage Frame.  Once fully installed, the frame will increase JEM stowage capability by 12 Cargo Transfer Bag Equivalents (CTBE).
 
ВД2 anomaly:  Late in the crew day, ВД2 experienced a failure in the vibration isolation system.  This crew has experience with this repair, as an identical failure on the other side of ВД2 occurred recently, and spares are available onboard.  Russian hardware specialists ВД2 to be recovered over the weekend.
 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA):  The UPA was transitioned from shutdown to standby today, in order to prepare for purge and recovery of the UPA.  Procedures are being developed to purge a clogged hose next week, and start the system after that purge.
 
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) AL1A4A-B RPC-14 Trip:  This morning, RPCM AL1A4A-B RPC-14 tripped open, and was verified to be a true overcurrent event.  This RPC powers shell heaters on the joint airlock.  Redundant heaters are operational.
 

