ISS On-Orbit Status 03/08/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
After breakfast, FE-4 Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
FE-1 Shkaplerov terminated his 6<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
FE-2 Ivanishin performed his 4<sup>th</sup> MBI-24 “SPRUT-2” (“Squid-2”) test, part of Russian medical research on the distribution and behavior of human body fluids in zero gravity, along with PZEh-MO-8 body mass measurement using the IM device.       [Supported by the RSS-Med A31p laptop with new software (Vers. 1.6) in the SM, the test uses the Profilaktika kit, with data recorded on PCMCIA memory cards, along with Anatoly’s body mass values and earlier recorded MO-10 Hematocrit value, but skipping “fat fold” measurements.  Experiment requisites are the Sprut securing harness, skin electrodes (cuffs), and RSS-Med for control and data storage.  The “Pinguin” suit or Braslet-M cuffs, if worn, have to be taken off first.  Electrode measurements are recorded at complete rest and relaxed body position.  The actual recording takes 3-5 minutes, during which the patient has to remain at complete rest.]
 
FE-5 Kuipers performed his 3<sup>rd</sup> (FD75/Flight Day 75) ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Resting Echo Scan in the US Lab, assisted by Dan Burbank who served as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) to operate the USND (Ultrasound) scans.  Don Pettit took documentary photographs.       [Wearing electrodes, ECG (Electrocardiograph) cable &amp; VOX, André underwent the USND scan for ICV assessment, with video being recorded from the HRF (Human Research Facility) Ultrasound and COL cabin camera.  Heart rate was tracked with the HRM (Heart Rate Monitor).  There are dietary constraints, and no exercise is allowed 4 hrs prior to scan.  After confirmed file transfer, the gear was powered down and stowed.  Later, the data from the two HM-2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi Cards and two Actiwatch Spectrums were transferred from the USND-2 (Ultrasound 2) hard drive to the USND-2 USB drive.  Voice required last 5 minutes for crew to inform ground copy process is complete.  The USND echo experiment uses the Image Collector software on the laptop and requires VOX/Voice plus RT Video downlink during the activity.  Goal of the ICV experiment is to quantify the extent, time course, and clinical significance of cardiac atrophy and identify its mechanisms.  The ICV experiment consists of two separate but related activities over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there are fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).]
 
In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Pettit checked on proper engagement of fasteners on Deck racks (at D1, D2 and D3).
 
In Node-3, Burbank performed Part 1 of the WRS-1 (Water Recovery System 1) repair, removing the failed CR (Catalytic Reactor) and replacing it with the one available spare to regain functionality of the WPA (Water Processing Assembly).  Dan also installed a temporary filter kit between the new CR and the MCV (Microbial Check Valve) to support a system flush of the new ORU (On-orbit Replacement Unit).      [The activities required multiple partial rotations of the WRS-1 rack at D5 to access connections at the front and rear of the rack, during which FE-6 Pettit provided assistance to tend the rack during rotations.  On Day 2, the filter kit will be removed and the rack cleaned and closed out.]
 
Afterwards, Don Pettit restored the WRS-1 &amp; T2 treadmill racks by installing ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) pivot fittings to the former and reinstalling T2 hardware in the latter.
 
Shkaplerov &amp; Ivanishin joined forces in another major (2-hr) audit/inventory, today focused on food containers stowed in FGB and MRM1.      [The task was to verify quantities and locations of unopened food ration containers, including skip cycle containers (marked with white tape), based on an uplinked list of 60 rations, and to log &amp; report all opened containers.]
 
Oleg Kononenko meanwhile had another 2 hrs set aside for loading excessed equipment &amp; trash on Progress 46P, to be disposed of by incineration during atmospheric reentry on 4/29.
 
Afterwards, Oleg worked in the Soyuz TMA-03M/29S (#703) spacecraft, cleaning the screen of the BVN air heater.
 
André Kuipers spent ~2 hrs inspecting &amp; cleaning cabin-accessible AR (Atmosphere Revitalization) bacteria filters in Node-1, Node-2, Node-3, Airlock and Lab.
 
Anatoly Ivanishin performed the periodic inspection &amp; cleaning of RS (Russian Segment) laptops of the BKS Auxiliary Computer System, using the vacuum cleaner to remove dust from vents, connectors, keyboards and shells.      [BKS laptops are RSS1, rss2, Rsk1, rsk2, rse1, rse-med, SSC1 (Station Support Computer 1), SSC2 &amp; SSC3.] 
 
Anatoly &amp; Oleg worked several hours in the FGB using microbial growth wipes and Fungistat disinfectant to clean areas behind wall panels which have shown some microbial contamination.       [Today’s treatment focused on spaces behind panels 421, 221, 422 &amp; 222.   The time-consuming work requires clearing cargo out of the way, removing bungees, photographing enclosure spaces, etc.  Areas of interest are accessible frame sections, attachments, mounting bracket, pressurized shell surface areas, panel internal surfaces, etc.]
 
Ivanishin also conducted the regular (weekly) inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of cooling loop KOB-2, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).
 
With its battery freshly charged overnight, FE-1 Shkaplerov used the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware at SM window #9 and the overnight freshly charged FSS photo spectrograph battery, taking pictures with the FSS of the English Channel (water and coastal zone), Europe, Russia (shots of snow around the industrial centers/cities), Tsimlyanskoe reservoir, Volga River delta, water area and coastal area of the Caspian Sea (looking for oil films on the surface), water area and coastal area of the Aral Sea (looking for dust storms and their distribution), the river Amu–Daria, and glaciers of the Pamir.     [The FSS (Fotospektralnaya sistema) consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module.  FSS includes the ME Electronics Module &amp; MRI Image Recording Module.]
 
Anton Shkaplerov had ~2 hrs of reserve time blocked out on his timeline for Systems Operations.
 
FE-1 also conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
FE-4 Kononenko took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur),
 
Following up on his CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodinated) audit/inventory yesterday, André responded to a number of uplinked questions from the ground related to differences between the latest crew count of location and quantities of eight bags and the respective console logs on the ground.
 
Burbank &amp; Pettit had another time slot reserved for making entries in their electronic Journals on the personal SSC.     [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Don filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), his 10<sup>th</sup>.      [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
Before Presleep, the CDR will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Dan turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).      [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND leg muscle self scan in COL.  Today’s exercise called for CEVIS.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.]
 
At ~10:55am EST, the CDR conducted the regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
At ~11:55am, Pettit &amp; Burbank supported a PAO TV event, downlinking their responses to interview questions from CBS Radio (Peter King, Bill Harwood).
 
Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormalCxSpMiddle" style="margin-bottom:10.0pt;mso-add-space:auto;line-height:115%;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on volcanoes, Mount Etna, Stromboli, Hierro &amp; Popocatepetl, Allalin Glacier and Pamir Glaciers RGS, Bear &amp; Mabuza, Volga River delta, the Caspian and Aral Seas, Laganakskoe plateau and Krasnaya Polyana,</li><li class="MsoNormalCxSpMiddle" style="margin-bottom:10.0pt;mso-add-space:auto;line-height:115%;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li class="MsoNormalCxSpMiddle" style="margin-bottom:10.0pt;mso-add-space:auto;line-height:115%;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).</li></ul>RRM Update:    Yesterday, the Robotic Refueling Mission began its ground-commanded demonstration of satellite servicing (refueling &amp; repairing) capabilities using SSRMS with SPDM (Space Station Remote Manipulator System w/Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator) and GSFC (Goddard Space Flight Center)-provided tools and task boards.  During yesterday’s activities, SPDM successfully unstowed and operated the SCT (Safety Cap Tool), the WCT (Wire Cutter Tool) and the MFT (Multi-Function Tool) for their functional checkout.  The SPDM body was then maneuvered to position for wire cutting and launch lock release operations on the RRM top (port facing) panel.  These initial tasks continue through Friday.  RRM will perform several demonstration operations over the next couple of years.  Remote satellite servicing is finally getting underway!
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Paris, France (Capital Cities Collection: ISS had a late morning pass with a small possibility for clouds over this capital city.  Paris is situated on the Seine River and is the largest city in France with over 2 million people.  As ISS tracked ENE over the English Channel, the crew was to look right of track to acquire shots of the entire city), Brussels, Belgium (Capital Cities Collection: ISS had a late morning pass today with fair weather for this capital city target.  Brussels has a population of nearly 2 million is located in central Belgium about 70 miles inland from the North Sea.  As ISS tracked ENE east-northeast and inland at this time, the crew was to aim nadir for this major city), Plum Island Ecosystem, Massachusetts (Long Term Monitoring Site: Looking left of track over Cape Cod Bay, for an estuary on the bay north of Boston.  Changing nutrient flows in the estuary, where urban pressures have increased greatly, are the object of the research.  Data for many aspects of the research [water color, new housing, loss of natural landscapes, etc.] can be gleaned from your imagery.  Visual cue was the Cape Ann peninsula north of Boston and Cape Cod), and West Hawk Impact Crater, Manitoba (Terrestrial Impact Crater: This 4.5 km-diameter crater was formed 350 million years ago, and despite several episodes of glacial erosion in the last 2 million years, is still evident in the landscape.  Looking to nadir for West Hawk Lake – this now fills the impact structure.  Overlapping mapping frames of the impact structure were requested).
 

