ISS On-Orbit Status 03/04/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
 The ISS Program has won the 2009 Collier Trophy, considered the top award in Aviation.  Bestowed annually by the National Aeronautic Association in Washington, the award recognizes the greatest achievement in Aeronautics or Astronautics in the USA. Congratulations to everyone in our unique world-spanning partnership!
 
 At wake-up, FE-1 Suraev did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters tonight before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 CDR Williams &amp; FE-6 Creamer continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), donning their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 FE-4 Kotov configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his third, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment, supported by ground specialist tagup, was then closed out and the test data downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]
 
 In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), CDR Williams completed Day 2 of his last (of 5) ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session.  Upon reaching the midpoint, Jeff ended the Cardiopres/BP (blood pressure) data collection, changed out the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) HiFi CF Card and AA Battery, and began the next 24-hour data collection, using the CEVIS cycle ergometer in a short-duration run at high &amp; low speeds to meet the ICV heart rate requirement.       [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices were worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres was doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan includes an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
 Later, Williams also undertook the periodic US PHS (Periodic Health Status)/Without Blood Labs exam, assisted by TJ Creamer as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Jeff later logged the data and stowed the equipment.  A subjective evaluation was part of the test.    [The assessment used the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data were then logged on the MEC and the hardware stowed.  The PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software on the MEC laptop.]
 
 At the PU SO Atmosphere Purification System control panel in the SM (Service Module), Suraev switched the Vozdukh CO<sub>2</sub> absorption system to Auto Control mode.  Later, Vozdukh was switched back to Manual mode.    [This is regularly done before &amp; after ground-commanded deactivation/re-activation of the BSM-M (Frequency &amp; Time Synchronization System, i.e., the Master Clock) on the PPS System Power Panel which provides timing signals to Vozdukh when the latter is in Manual Mode.]
 
 Suraev initiated (later terminated) another refresh of the ISS cabin atmosphere with pressurized O<sub>2</sub> (oxygen) from Progress 36P storage for about an hour.
 
 FE-1 spent ~4.5 hrs collecting 24 microbial samples from various behind-panel surfaces in the FGB, storing the sample tubes in two kits for return on Soyuz TMA-16/20S. 
 
 Surface samples were also collected by FE-6 in the SM for the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT experiment, from the pressurized shell behind panels 244, 225, 250, 340, 429, 432, 433 &amp; 434 and in the TCS (Thermal Control System) feedthrough plate area in the PrK.    [Samples were collected in tubes, and the sampling locations were photographed with the NIKON D2X with flash.]
 
 After yesterday’s hardware setup in the SM, Oleg Kotov today collected KAV condensate water samples from the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor (water recovery system) upstream of the FGS gas/liquid mixture filter/separator, a periodic check on the performance of the FGS, then removed the sampler and separator and disposed of flush water as per instructions.
 
 Later, Oleg performed IFM (in-flight maintenance) on the SRV-K2M by changing out its BKO multifiltration unit.  The old unit was discarded as trash.
 
 In the Soyuz TMA-17/21S crew return vehicle, docked at the FGB nadir port, the FE-4 turned off the GA gas analyzer in the Descent Module (SA) which he had activated on 3/1 for the periodic atmosphere checkup.
 
 After removing the CQ (Crew Quarters) “bumpout” structure in Node-2 (loc. P5) in order to rotate the ZSR (Zero-G Stowage Rack) at O5 for relocation, FE-5 Noguchi &amp; FE-6 Creamer uninstalled the ZSR and transferred it to the US Lab (loc. P1).  The bumpout was then re-installed.    [If there were any loose CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) behind the rack, they were to be restowed behind the ZSR at its new location, or nearby.]
 
 After terminating the successful overnight PMA-3 leak check, Noguchi &amp; Creamer worked in Node-3 and PMA-3 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 3) to prepare the latter’s voluminous space for equipment stowage.   [Activities included opening the Node-3 port hatch for ingressing PMA-3, removing the Node-3 Port CDC (Center Disk Cover), removing the Node-3 Port CBM CPAs (Common Berthing Mechanism / Controller Panel Assemblies) and the target of the PMA-3 CBCS (Centerline Berthing Camera System), installing the PMA-3 CDC and.]
 
 Soichi &amp; TJ then had ~2.5 hrs for stowing equipment items in the PMA-3 that have been approved for its environment, comprising about 17 CTBs.  Afterwards, the Node-3 Port CDC and PMA-3 CDC were re-installed, followed by installation of an IMV (Intermodular Ventilation) flange saver element on the forward external IMV feedthrough of Node-3’s Port hatch, and the hatch was then closed after an inspection of its surfaces and seal.
 
 Creamer also transferred the four-way PS-120 power switch/junction box from Node-1 to Node-3.    [For the relocation, TJ disconnected the portable loads in Node-1 from the PS-120 and reconnected them directly to the UOPs (Utility Outlet Panels).  In Node-3, the PS120 was then hooked up to UOP-4.]
 
 With the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) observing his activities at the COL FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory), Noguchi performed repair on the lower CEM (Central Experiment Module), detaching the left drawer handle, removing a damaged bolt and installing a new handle.  The task was supervised from the ground via S-band &amp; Ku-band.
 
 After activating the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox), the FE-5 performed further troubleshooting on the SODI/DSC (Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument / Diffusion Soret Coefficient) hardware, without success.  MSG was later powered down again.     [DSC is part of the SODI triple experiment series of SODI (IVIDIL, DSC, Colloid) for advanced research in vibration effects on diffusion in liquids, diffusion measurements in petroleum reservoirs and the study on growth and properties of advanced photonic materials within colloidal solutions, respectively.  It is suspected that the failure is with the power system which will be further investigated.  As for the data problem, Soichi found a disconnected Ethernet cable which should fix the communications issue.]
 
 In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Noguchi serviced the CGSE Common Gas Supply Equipment), disconnecting the Flex hose QD (Quick Disconnect) of the upper CO<sub>2</sub> GBU (Gas Bottle Unit) from the CGSE valve unit and remating the QD for supplying CO<sub>2</sub> gas to the line for checking the gas supply.
 
 The CDR performed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week.    [The current card (22-0003N) lists 96 CWCs (2,412.3 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (20 CWCs with 781.3 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 87.5 L in 4 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 559.6 L in 13 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 1 bag with 23.0 L contains Wautersia, 1 bag with 43.6 L requires sample analysis &amp; 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (59 CWCs with 1110.5 L),  4. condensate water (1 bag with 28.1 L [known leaker], 1 empty CWC, 4 bags with 101.4 L) and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 24.3 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 Working in Node-3 on WRS-2 (Water Recovery System) Rack 2, Jeff removed &amp; replaced the RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly.    [When finished, the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) RFTA depress hose was installed between the FCPA (Fluids Control Pump Assembly) and RFTA in such a way that the RFTA could be back-filled while bypassing the internal filters.]
 
 Jeff then fully charged the RFTA and also filled the WSTA (Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly) to ~55%.
 
 In addition, the CDR completed the periodic (monthly) battery check and reboot of all active US PCS (Portable Computer System) and the COL PWS (Portable Workstation) laptops.
 
 TJ Creamer performed the chemical testing of the 20 mL water sample collected by Noguchi yesterday, using EHS C-SPE (Environmental Health System / Colorimetric Solid-Phase Extraction) analysis and the CWQMK (Colorimetric Water Quality Monitoring Kit).     [Results of an Iodine standard were downloaded, followed by the Silver standard and analysis.]
 
 In the SM, Oleg did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 Maxim completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 TJ took high-quality photographs of the three on-orbit REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly) batteries for an engineering evaluation of the J1 connector socket on each of them on the ground.    [During Flight 20A, one of the EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) power harness cables between REBA and EMU TV &amp; glove heaters failed to deliver power, due to a faulty P1 connector with freely rotating pins.  The resulting misalignment could have damaged the J1 connector, requiring an inspection in preparation for Flight 19A.]
 
 At ~5:05am EST Soichi powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 5:10am conducted a ham radio session with students at Hamasuka Junior High School in Chigasaki City, Kanagawa, Japan. 
 
 At ~2:45pm, Creamer held his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR), TVIS treadmill (FE-1/2x, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive device (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6).
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Cape Town, South Africa (South Africa’s sprawling capital of over 3 and half million lied just left of track on this early afternoon pass.  Clear weather was expected at the coast as ISS approached from the SW), Moroni, Comoros (ISS had a fair-weather, mid-afternoon pass over the tiny capital city of the Comoros archipelago, located in the northern Mozambique Channel.  Moroni is located on the largest island, Grande Comore, in the NW part of the islands.  As ISS tracked northeastward and off the Mozambique coast, the crew looked for this target just right of track), Cape Tres Montes, Chile (HMS Beagle Site:  Cape Tres Montes was as far south in South America as the Beagle would travel. In his letters Darwin’s notes the numerous forested islands and mountains.  The cape is situated on the southern coast of the rugged, forested Taitao Peninsula on the Gulf of Penas, just west of the Northern Patagonian Ice Field.  ISS approached the coast from the SW at midday in fair weather.  Looking for this target just left of track), and Santiago, Chile (DYNAMIC EVENT:   The devastating 8.8 magnitude earthquake this past weekend will make the cities and coastal areas of Chile an ongoing target for ISS photography in the coming days.  Today’s best pass offered a nadir pass over the heavily damaged capital city of Santiago.  As ISS approached the coast from the SW, the crew was to look right of track and map northward along the coast from near Concepcion to nadir and then inland towards and over Santiago.  They had a mid-afternoon pass in fair weather and any other views of the region as a whole may have been useful.
 
 
