
Water Recovery System (WRS) Status: On February 24th, the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) had a fault due to a leak into the catalytic reactor. On Thursday, Hopkins and Mastracchio successfully R&Rd the catalytic reactor. WPA has since been activated and is processing nominally.
On Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Descent: Commander (CDR) Kotov, Flight Engineer  (FE-2) Ryazanskiy and FE-3 Hopkins completed this nominal drill performed prior to a Soyuz undock. This activity is in preparation for next Monday’s undock of 36S.
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review: FE-3 Tyurin, FE-5 Mastracchio and FE-6 Wakata reviewed priorities for emergency response including safety of the crew and safe configuration of the ISS. Additional topics covered included crew accountability, escape vehicle access, CDR responsibilities and communication and coordination.
Aniso Tubule Experiment:  Wakata retrieved the Aniso Tubule sample from the light proof bag where it was placed on March 4th and placed it on the Multi Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) flourescent microscope for a 48 hour observation.  This is the fifth of five planned runs.  JAXA’s Aniso Tubule experiment investigates the roles of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins in gravity-induced growth modification of plant stems.
Marangoni Operations:  Wakata closed out the Marangoni operations with installation of the Infrared Imager and Marangoni Deformation 10 (MD10) in the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF).  Marangoni convection is the flow driven by the presence of a surface tension gradient, which can be produced by temperature differences at a liquid/gas interface.  Scientists observe the flow patterns fluids to learn more about how heat is transferred in microgravity.  The knowledge gained from the Marangoni experiment is applicable to the high performance heat exchangers and heat pipes, both in the space and on the earth, and for the production of high-quality crystal growth required for semiconductors and optical crystals.
Material Science Laboratory (MSL) Solidification and Quench Furnace (SQF) Sample Cartridge Exchange:  Mastracchio removed a processed sample cartridge from the SQF and replace it with Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions (MICAST)-2 test sample 12. This investigation aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. The patterns of the crystals resulting from transitions of liquids to solids is of substantial importance to processes in producing materials such as solar cells, thermoelectrics, and metal alloys. 

