
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The crew removed the test Cartridge from the BFF facility. The BFF is dedicated to manufacturing human organs and tissues in space, primarily for use by patients on Earth. Besides printing tissue, the BFF also can help maintain the health of deep space exploration crews by producing food and personalized pharmaceuticals on demand.
Transparent Alloys-SEBA: The crew installed the Transparent Alloy hardware into the MSG Work Volume and took documentation photos. The aim of the Transparent Alloys-SEBA (Solidification along an Eutectic Path in Binary Alloys) experiment is to study the morphological instabilities of directional solidified, transparent binary eutectic alloys under purely diffusive conditions. This experiment provides a real-time observation of the dynamics of eutectic front structures with a micron-scale resolution, over a large (centimetric) space scale, and over long (several 10 hours) periods of time. These observations are strongly sensitive to convective motions in liquid, which, in ordinary conditions on earth, entail a detrimental redistribution of the solute on a scale comparable to the container size. Such convective motions are suppressed in microgravity.
OsteoOmics: The crew was performing the BioCell Media Changeout for BioCell Habitat S/N 1 but the activity was aborted when the crew reported visible contamination in each of the six cells. The Cells were double bagged and placed into cold stowage for return. Two of the media syringes were bagged and placed into cold stowage for return. Millions of Americans experience bone loss, which results from disease or the reduced effects of gravity that can occur in bed-ridden patients. OsteoOmics tests whether magnetic levitation accurately simulates the free-fall conditions of microgravity by comparing genetic expression osteoblastic cells, a type of bone cell, levitated in a high-field superconducting magnet with cells flown in low-Earth orbit. This information helps scientists determine the molecular and metabolic changes that take place in magnetic levitation and real microgravity.
Systems
SpaceX (SpX)-20 Arrival Preparations: In preparation for SpX-20 Dragon capture, currently planned for March 9th, the crew completed an offset grapple OBT training session where they took turns flying the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into the grapple envelope of the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF). This training is designed to maintain the crew’s robotics training proficiency.

