
44 Soyuz (44S) Undock and Landing:  The 44S Crew (Kelly, Volkov, and Kornienko) undocked from the ISS Mini-Research Module (MRM)-2 docking port at 7:02pm CST. The Soyuz deorbit burn occurred at 9:32pm CST resulting in a nominal landing in the Kazakhstan southern zone at 10:26pm CST. The ISS will be in 3-crew operations until 46S docking on March 19th.
 
Payload On-Orbit Still Shots for Utilization and Maintenance (POSSUM) Photographs:  Peake obtained still digital photos of all payload racks to document any configuration changes and to support crew training.
 
Habitability Walkthrough Video:  Kopra recorded a video of his walk-through of an area or activity and provide insights related to human factors and habitability.  The Habitability investigation results will be used to assess the relationship between crew members and their environment to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights. Observations recorded during 6 month and 1 year missions assist spacecraft designers to determine how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Twins Study:  In support of the Twins Study, Peake obtained an ambient blood sample from Kelly for stowage on 44S.  This investigation integrates ten different studies led by multiple investigators.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, with one of the twins experiencing space travel for a year while the other remains earth-bound.  The study also looks at changes in the human body that are important in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
 
Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Video:  Peake recorded a video and explained the CSA T-Bone experiment. The video is for the general public to view on the web and social media to promote science on board the ISS.
 
Story Time:  Kelly photographed Peake as he read from the children’s book The Incredible Intergalactic Journey Home.  Story Time is an advocacy Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Math (STEAM) and literacy project.  It consists of reading seven books and performing related science demonstrations at a later date.  Story Time provides an opportunity to deliver ISS research content to communities that have not previously been engaged in the space program.
 

