
NRCSD (NanoRacks External CubeSat Deployer): The crew performed the removal of NRCD-17 CubeSat deployer from the JEM airlock. The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer is a stackable, modular, ground loaded launch case.  Each NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer accommodates up to eight launch cases are stacked for each JEM Airlock opening. The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer meets the growing demand to deploy CubeSat format satellites from the International Space Station for a variety of customers.
HISUI (Hyperspectral Imager Suite): The crew performed troubleshooting steps for the HISU Mission Data Recorder by installing the 32G SD card from the PL control Box. The Hyperspectral Imager Suite (HISUI) is a next-generation spaceborne hyperspectral Earth imaging system. The objective of HISUI onboard the International Space Station (ISS) is to obtain the data necessary to begin a full-scale practical application development for hyperspectral remote sensing through manufacturing, and the inflight performance verification of a hyperspectral imager onboard ISS.
OsteoOmics: The crew performed BioCell Media Changeout in BioCell habitat S/N 3. Millions of Americans experience bone loss, which results from disease or the reduced effects of gravity that can occur in bed-ridden patients. OsteoOmics tests whether magnetic levitation accurately simulates the free-fall conditions of microgravity by comparing genetic expression osteoblastic cells, a type of bone cell, levitated in a high-field superconducting magnet with cells flown in low-Earth orbit. This information helps scientists determine the molecular and metabolic changes that take place in magnetic levitation and real microgravity.
MSL SCA-GEDS-German: Ground teams initiated heating commands to the MSL to initiate processing of a Sample Assemblies Cartridge (SCA) in the Low Gradient Furnace (LGF) that was previously inserted by the crew on GMT 352 of 2019. Samples will return on SpX-20.  Liquid phase sintering is an important means to fabricate net-shape composite materials for applications over a range of industries. The science of liquid phase sintering is about 50 years old, but practice dates from the 1400s when gold was used to bond platinum in Columbia and Ecuador. Today, it is a mainstay in a diversity of fields, such as metal cutting tools, armor piercing projectiles, automotive engine connecting rods, and self-lubricating bearings. Future applications include use of liquid phase sintering as a means to perform in-space fabrication and repair, and for example using lunar regolith to fabricate structures on the moon or using metal powder to fabricate replacement components during extraterrestrial exploration. The MSL SCA-GEDS-German (NASA Sample Cartridge Assembly-Gravitational Effects on Distortion in Sintering) experiment focuses on determining the underlying scientific principles to forecast density, size, shape, and properties for liquid phase sintered bodies over a broad range of compositions in Earth-gravity (1g) and microgravity (μg) conditions.
Systems
Dragon On-Board Training (OBT): The crew spent part of their afternoon participating in a robotics OBT self-study session in preparation for the SpX-20 Dragon arrival later this week. Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) sessions are designed to help the crew maintain their robotics training proficiency. The ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. Dragon launch is currently scheduled for March 7th at 10:49 CT. Capture and berthing is planned for the morning of March 9th, with an ISS/Dragon rendezvous time of ~6:00 am CT.

