
Aniso Tubule Light Treatment:  Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Wakata retrieved an Aniso Tubule sample from a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and attached a Ziplock bag containing the Sample Chamber onto a Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) door to expose it to light.  This is the fifth of five planned runs.  Later he inserted the Sample Chamber into a light proof bag.  Later this week, the sample will be retrieved and placed on the Multi Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) fluorescent microscope for a 48 hour observation.  JAXA’s Aniso Tubule experiment investigates the roles of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins in gravity-induced growth modification of plant stems.
Marangoni Operations:  FE-3 Hopkins removed the processed Marangoni Deformation 30 (MD30) sample from the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) and replaced it with a Dynamic Surf-2 sample for the next FPEF sample run.  The Dynamic Surf investigation is part of a series of JAXA experiments that examine Marangoni convection or flow, a process driven by the presence of a surface tension gradient produced by a temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface.  Observations of fluid convection in a silicone oil liquid bridge generated by heating one disc higher than another will provide insight into how such fluids move and heat is transferred in microgravity.  The results are expected to be used in the design and development of more efficient fluid flow-based systems and devices.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Kinetics Platform (BCAT-KP) Experiment: Hopkins and FE-5 Mastracchio prepared sample #6 for a seven day test run. This is the second of 10 BCAT-KP samples.  BCAT-KP provides a platform for material and industrial scientists to investigate colloid phase changes, providing results that may be used to develop new colloidal materials and formulations with unique properties.  The results may support new applications, from new liquid crystals to consumer goods having longer shelf life and uses.
Ocular Health (OH) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and Fundoscope Eye Examinations: Mastracchio, acting as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO), performed OCT and Fundoscope eye examinations on Wakata with remote guidance from ground experts.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment and intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Earth Rim Observation: Mastracchio set up the D3 camera in the Cupola for sequential auto photo shooting of the earth’s surface with the existing JAXA attached payload, Multi mission Consolidated Equipment (MCE). Coordinated operation gives a stereoscopic observation of common targets and clarifies the three-dimensional structures of the upper atmospheric disturbances.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Remote Flow Control Assembly (RFCA) Reconfiguration: This afternoon, Mastracchio and Wakata rotated the LAB1D1 Rack to access and reconfigure the LAB1PD1 RFCA from the Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) loop to the Low Temperature Loop (LTL) loop. This will allow relocation of the MELFI Rack to the LAB1P1 location if the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) MTL pump were to fail.
JEM ORU Transfer Interface (JOTI) Install: Earlier this morning, Wakata installed JOTI onto the Airlock slide table in preparation for the Camera Light Pan Tilt Assembly (CLPA) activity planned for Increment 39.

