ISS On-Orbit Status 03/06/10
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – light-duty day.
 
  At wake-up, FE-4 Kotov did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-4 again inspects the filters tonight before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
  CDR Williams &amp; FE-6 Creamer continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), donning their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  Williams, Creamer &amp; FE-5 Noguchi completed another Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  A total of 121 RST runs are assigned to Jeff for the duration of his orbital stay.]
 
  The five station residents performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  Oleg Kotov also completed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM &amp; FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.
 
  After unstowing an SRN manual pump and VK-316M vacuum pressure gauge, Kotov worked in the DC1 Docking Compartment on the TCS (Thermal Control System), using the TCS compensator manifold there to re-establish operational pressure in the KOB2 loop of the Russian SOTR internal thermal control system.
 
  FE-4 also initiated (later terminated) another refresh of the ISS cabin atmosphere with pressurized O<sub>2</sub> from Progress M-04M/36P oxygen storage for about an hour.
 
  In the SM, FE-1 Suraev did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  For his VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) program today, FE-5 Noguchi set up the High Definition TV gear (G1 camcorder, MPC/Multipurpose Converter, IPU/Image Processing Unit) and conducted the third JAXA “Try Zero-G” demo, showing examples of the difference between 0G and 1G.  The recording was then downlinked via high-rate ICS (Inter-Orbit Communication System) data link.      [The first two sessions had been performed by Koichi Wakata in 2009, with the first one viewed by Japanese press, including 5 TV and 10 newspaper reporters.]
 
  The VolSci session with SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellite) originally scheduled for Williams &amp; Creamer was cancelled.
 
  Soichi collected water samples from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Hot and Ambient lines for microbial in-flight processing, using a Microbial Analysis Packet for a 50 mL sample drawn from each port in a small waste water bag.  The samples were processed as usual with MCDs (Microbial Capture Devices) and CDBs (Coliform Detection Bags).
 
  FE-5 also performed the periodic reboot of the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module)’s SLT (Systems Laptop Terminal).
 
  Afterwards, Soichi terminated his second session with the JAXA experiment “Biological Rhythms” after completing the 24-hr. run, doffing the electrodes of the DWH (Digital Walk Holter) for ECG (Electrocardiogram) recording, then saving the Holter ECG data on the MLT (MMA {Microgravity Measurement Apparatus} Laptop Terminal).
 
  Williams, Creamer &amp; Noguchi conducted a new session with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC laptop and performing the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.  It was the 5<sup>th</sup> session for Jeff, the 3<sup>rd</sup> for Soichi &amp; TJ.     [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]
 
  Jeff, TJ &amp; Soichi filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
  At ~9:05am EST, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  FE-1, FE-5 &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Soichi at ~6:40am, Max at ~9:35am, TJ at ~2:35pm.
 
  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1/2x, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive device (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6).
 
 
