
Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight (Energy): The crew completed urine collections for Day 6 of the 11-day Energy protocol, logging food and drink consumptions as well.  The Energy investigation measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge of energy requirements is of a great importance to ensure health, good performance and the overall success of a mission, and also contributes to ensure adequate exercise load and cargo allotments for food during space flight.
Body Measures: The Body Measures subject, with assistance from a trained operator, conducted Flight Day (FD) 105 Body Measures data collection session. The crew configured still cameras and video, collected the Neutral Body Posture video and stowed the equipment. NASA is collecting in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. Still and video imagery is captured and a tape measure is used to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments (chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) from astronauts before, during and after their flight missions.
Auxin Transport: The crew initiated the fourth Auxin Transport experiment. They injected water into the chambers to prep for incubation in the Measurement Experiment Unit (MEU). Auxin Transport is a JAXA sponsored study to clarify the role of the plant hormone auxin under microgravity conditions. Specialists hope to collect gene expression data, including levles and redistribution of the proteins for auto-morphogensis (differentiation of tissues and subsequent growth without an introduced stimulus) using corn plants as the plant organism model for Auxin Transport 4.
Node 3 (N3) Port Bulkhead Feedthrough Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew replaced three existing Bulkhead Feedthroughs on the Node 3 Port Bulkhead. This activity will provide a connectivity pathway for wireless payload data transmission and prepare for future utilization of the Node 3 Port location.
N3 Port Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Control Panel Assembly (CPA): The crew took photos of the Vestibule with CPAs removed to identify any interference issues with the CPAs folded. They also photographed the Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)3 starboard hatchway surface to reveal any interference issues with the Hatch Depress Indicator. They then performed a fit check of the N3 Port Aft CPA in a folded down position with connectors still mated.  The activity was performed to test a concept to save crew time for visiting vehicle operations in the future by folding the CPAs out of the way versus completely removing and reinstalling the CPAs. 
Onboard Training (OBT) – Emergency Response: During this OBT the 49S crew completed the following objectives for an ammonia leak scenario:

Practiced ISS emergency response with crew and ground roles based on information provided by simulator displays.
Physically translated through the ISS to the appropriate response locations.
Practiced procedure execution and associated decision making based on cues provided by the simulator.
Practiced communication and coordination with Mission Control Center-Houston (MCC-H) and MCC-Moscow as required.


