
Life Support Rack (LSR): Today a crewmember removed the Waste Water Filter insert element from the LSR and prepared the element for return. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. It captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR will operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Plasma Krystall-4 (PK-4): Today a crewmember initiated three runs as part of group 1 sequences and then reconfigured the PK-4 hardware for Neon Gas use. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the ESA and the Roscosmos, performing research in the field of “Complex Plasmas”: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): Today a crewmember replaced the Manifold #2 O2/N2 bottle in preparation for upcoming CIR runs. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity.
Emergency Onboard Training: All three crewmembers performed refresher training in order to practice and evaluate the ability to communicate with the ground teams from the Soyuz while wearing Emergency Masks
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew continued EVA preparations by resizing EMU 3008 for use by Ann McClain. They installed and checked out Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBA) on EMUs 3003 and 3008.  In addition, they inspected the Load Alleviating Straps on Safety Tethers, Waist Tethers and soft straps on D-Ring Extenders. The P4 Integrated Equipment Assembly (IEA) Channels 4A and 2A Battery EVAs are planned for March 22 and 29.
Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Replacement: The crew removed the MCA Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU)-2 within the LAB1D6 location today. This unit experienced an ion pump short and failed in December 2018 and will be returned to the ground for refurbishment via SpaceX-17, currently planned for April of this year. The MCA is a mass spectrometer based system that measures the major atmospheric constituents on the ISS.

