
Airway Monitoring:  In support of the European Space Agency (ESA) Airway Monitoring investigation, today the crew set up hardware in the US Laboratory for nitric oxide measurements to be taken tomorrow. Airway Monitoring aims to determine the pulmonary nitric oxide turnover in weightlessness and in combined weightless, hypobaric and hypoxic environments as well as determining the lung diffusion capacity for nitric oxide.  With dust particles present in the ISS atmosphere, this investigation studies the occurrence and indicators of airway inflammation in crewmembers, using ultra-sensitive gas analyzers to analyze exhaled air. This will help to identify health impacts and support maintenance of crewmember well-being on future human spaceflight missions, where crewmembers will have to be more self-sufficient in identifying and avoiding such conditions. 
Plant Habitat:  The crew positioned the Infrared Sensor Arm in the growth chamber of the Plant Habitat to test use of the sensor for measuring leaf temperatures of the growing Dwarf Wheat plants over the next week.  The Plant Habitat is a fully automated facility that is being used to support plant bioscience research on the ISS in a large, enclosed, environmentally controlled chamber. 
Veg-03:  The crew continued with the photo-documentation of plant growth for the Veg-03 investigation. They also watered the plants. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets.
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS): Today the crew captured images of Cape Town, South Africa.  EIISS captures a series of videos showcasing targets around the world as seen from the ISS. The videos will be integrated into a product for later release. 
Microgravity Sciences Glovebox (MSG) Video Upgrade Equipment (VUE) Troubleshooting: Today, ground controllers unsuccessfully attempted to repower the MSG-VUE.  The crew rerouted an Ethernet cable to connect directly with the MSG laptop computer, bypassing the VUE and allowing the Transparent Alloys payload to continue nominal file downlinks. A Failure Investigation Team (FIT) is currently scheduled on Thursday to work the forward plan.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank [E-K] Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew R&R the E-K tank as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance.  Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.  
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew inspect and confirmed that the Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs), Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs) and Pre-Breathe Masks are all free of damage to ensure functionality.  This is routine maintenance performed every 45 days. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Li-Ion Battery Data Logging: The crew initiated a charging Autocycle of two EMU Long Life Batteries (LLB) with data logging. Over the course of three days, the Autocycle will capture the battery health data required to determine if the expiration date of the LLBs can be extended by 10 months.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Educational Event: Scott Tingle, University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth alumnus, participated in an educational event with the university.  Scott answered a number of questions from Dartmouth students and faculty members. 

