
Water Recovery System (WRS) Catalytic Reactor Remove & Replace (R&R): On February 24th,  the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) had a fault due to a leak into the catalytic reactor (approximately 1 liter of water). Today, Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins and FE-5 Mastracchio successfully R&Rd the catalytic reactor.  In preparation for the R&R, Hopkins removed Treadmill 2 (T2) hardware and rotated the WRS1 rack to allow access to the area. The new Catalytic Reactor has been activated in preparation for a processing run later today.
Marangoni Operations:  FE-6 Wakata cleaned the mirrors for the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) Infrared Imager, then installed the Marangoni Deformation 10 (MD10) Core in the MD10 Body.  Tomorrow he will close out the Marangoni operations with installation of the Infrared Imager and MD10 in the FPEF.  Marangoni convection is the flow driven by the presence of a surface tension gradient which can be produced by temperature differences at a liquid/gas interface.  Scientists observe the flow patterns fluids to learn more about how heat is transferred in microgravity.  The knowledge gained from the Marangoni experiment is applicable to the high performance heat exchangers and heat pipes, both in the space and on the earth, and for the production of high-quality crystal growth required for semiconductors and optical crystals.
Space Midge 2 Observation: Wakata set up a G1 Camcorder for observation of midge dry larvae samples that were watered 2 weeks ago.  Dry larvae of the sleeping chironomid (midge) have a molecule responsible for desiccation tolerance.  These larvae will be returned and examined to determine the impact of the space environment on their desiccation tolerance and their gene expression in response to the microgravity environment.
Dose Distribution Inside the International Space Station – 3D (DOSIS-3D) Measurement Completion:  Mastracchio uninstalled DOSIS 3D passive detectors in the Columbus module. He then passed them to a Russian crewmember for return on the 36 Soyuz (36S) vehicle that undocks on March 10th.  ESA’s DOSIS-3D payload determines the radiation field parameters absorbed dose and dose equivalent inside the ISS with various active and passive radiation detector devices, supporting creation of a concise three dimensional (3D) dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS.
Ham Video Commissioning: Mastracchio installed the Ham video hardware in preparation for the Ham video commissioning activities this weekend. This video will complement Ham radio by providing the possibility of transmitting video via antennas installed on the exterior of the Columbus module.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Maneuver:   The Robotics ground controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered SSRMS from the post Orbital-1 Cygnus release park position to the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) high hover position.  This was done to pre-position the SSRMS for the ISS crew offset grapple practice session on March 13th that will help them prepare for the capture of SpaceX-3 later this month.  MSS performance was nominal.

