ISS On-Orbit Status 03/06/12
 
Today in Russia Valentina Tereshkova has her 75<sup>th</sup> birthday.  She became the first woman in space when she launched on the Vostok 5 mission on June 16, 1963, orbiting the Earth 48 times for almost 3 days.  After re-entry into the atmosphere on 6/19, "Chaika" (Seagull, her radio call name) parachuted from the spacecraft, landing about 380 miles northeast of Karaganda, Kazakhstan.  She was honored with the title "Hero of the Soviet Union," received the Order of Lenin and was awarded the United Nations Gold Medal of Peace.  She did not fly again.
Happy Birthday, Valentina Vladimirovna!
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
After breakfast, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Shkaplerov, Ivanishin &amp; Kononenko completed the periodic pre-breakfast session of the Russian biomedical routine assessment PZEh-MO-7/Calf Volume Measurement.  Afterwards, Anton, Anatoly &amp; Oleg were joined by Dan, André &amp; Don in completing the PZEh-MO-8/Body Mass Measurement using the IMT mass measurement device, set up (and later cleaned up and stowed away) by Shkaplerov.        [For determining body mass in zero-G, where things are weightless but not massless, the Russian IMT "scales" for MO-8 measure the inertial forces that arise during the oscillatory motion of a mass driven by two helical metering springs with known spring constants.  By measuring the time period of each oscillation of the unknown mass (the crewmember) and comparing it to the period of a known mass, the crewmember’s mass is calculated by the computer and displayed. MO-7 Calf measurements (left leg only) are taken with the IZOG device, a custom-sewn fabric cuff that fits over the calf, using the knee and lower foot as fixed reference pints, to provide a rough index of deconditioning in zero-G and effectiveness of countermeasures. ]
 
FE-6 Pettit re-installed the three PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) lock-down alignment guides on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) at Lab bay S3, engaged the snubber pins and locked safety pins to protect its ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) from external loading (dynamic disturbances).
 
As part of the current crewtime-intensive activities resulting from the failure of the WPA (Water Processor Assembly, see 3/3 Status Report), CDR Burbank prepared more CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodinated) bags for transferring their water to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) potable water tank by degassing a number of them (#1024, #2078, #2074 as time allowed) using MRFs (Microbial Removal Filters).  
 
Keeping an eye on the subsequent water transfer from CWC-I, FE-5 Kuipers after several hours swapped the emptied container bag with another CWC-I to continue loading the WPA potable water tank.  Later, André terminated the procedure and tore the equipment down for cleaning, using Povidone iodine wipes.     [Dan, Don &amp; André are currently allowed use of the RS (Russian Segment) galley for drinking water instead of the PWD (Potable water Dispenser).  The decision has been made to replace the CR ORU (Catalytic Reactor Orbit Replaceable Unit) in WRS1 (Water Recovery System 1) in Node-3 with the onboard spare.  The removed catalytic reactor can possibly be fixed and remain on-orbit for use as a degraded spare.  Mitigation of microbial contamination needs to be considered.]
 
Working on the WRS2 in Node-3, FE-6 Pettit collected a water sample (~300 mL) from the WPA M-F (Multi-Filtration) bed #2 effluent after flushing the process line D with ~150 mL.
 
In preparation for the upcoming R&amp;R of the catalytic reactor, Dan Burbank had ~30 min set aside to conduct an assessment of the WRS1 rack rotation required to remove its rear access panel and demate the CR ORU connections.     [To provide clearance for the WRS1 rack rotation, the nearby T2/COLBERT treadmill rack must be rotated out of the way.  This would require ~17 crew hours if done completely.  Dan’s assessment confirmed that a partial T2 rotation (to ~56 deg only) “should be more than enough to remove the rear panel access panel and disconnect the QDs on the catalytic reactor”, saving considerable T2 work.]
 
In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-5 Kuipers configured the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware plus MBS (Mixing Bag System), including calibrating the PPFS software and checking instruments, and then conducted his 3<sup>rd</sup> session with the VO<sub>2</sub>max (Evaluation of Maximal Oxygen Uptake &amp; Submaximal Estimates of VO<sub>2</sub>max before, during and after long-duration space station missions) assessment, integrated with Thermolab (head sensors).  After the session, André powered down, cleaned up &amp; partially stowed the equipment, and downloaded the data to a PCS laptop.       [The experiment VO<sub>2</sub>max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle with vibration isolation, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% &amp; 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]
 
Shkaplerov had ~2.5 hrs reserved for conducting an extensive audit/inventory of photo &amp; video equipment and photo accessories in the SM based on an uplinked listing, including taking Nikon D2X flash pictures of all gear and making a list of photo/video hardware which in the crew’s opinion is not used.
 
Afterwards, Anton undertook the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on a review of all topics.  At the end, Anton completed a self-assessment questionnaire.  Answers were provided at test conclusion.        [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]
 
FE-4 Kononenko configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h5m session, his 3<sup>rd</sup>, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.       [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]
 
Oleg also conducted the periodic 2.5-hr. inventory/audit of all medical kits in the RS including removing/replacing medications as required and checking on remaining food supplements (salt, Vitamin C, etc.).  Removed kits were disposed of in Progress 46P which had delivered fresh medical supplies.
 
Performing periodic TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) maintenance, FE-5 Kuipers primed the TOCA fluid line with water from the WPA and buffer solution from the TOCA BC (Buffer Container) to wet the dry GLS (Gas/Liquid Separator), then conducted the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS TOCA sampling in Node-3.      [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]
 
In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-5 cycled HCP (HTV Control Panel) power switches and verified HCP connection to the ground in support of Flight Controllers at Tanegashima who deactivated the PROX/Proximity Communication System after yesterday’s successful HTV (H-II Transfer Vehicle) checkout.  Afterwards, PROX ORU parameters were reset by the ground for Cygnus PROX checkout.     [Cygnus is the name of the spacecraft being developed by Orbital to demonstrate cargo delivery services under the NASA COTS (Commercial Orbital Transportation Services) Space Act Agreement.  In addition to the COTS development and demo program, Orbital will utilize the Cygnus to perform ISS resupply flights under the CRS (Commercial Resupply Service) contract which authorizes eight missions between 2012 and 2015 carrying approximately 20,000 kg of cargo to the ISS as well as disposal of ISS waste.]
 
Later, André started another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.     [Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
Don Pettit had ~4 hrs set aside for a major IFM (In-Flight Maintenance) in Node-2 for a thorough cleaning of intake and exhaust ducts, ventilation fan and airflow sensor in the Deck CQ (Crew Quarters), using a variety of materials and tools and taking digital photographs.
 
In MRM1 Rassvet, Anatoly Ivanishin conducted a one-hour audit/search of specific components of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system to set up for quick response in case of failure of the TA968MA monoblock unit of the BITS PTsB Central Processor Subsystem. 
 
With Anton Shkaplerov assisting as CMO, Ivanishin performed the Russian biomed assessment MO-14 (Assessment of Orthostatic Endurance w/o LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) which examines the orthostatic stability of the crewmember’s cardiovascular system at rest using complex methods.  The session, his first, was conducted at rest, using the KARDIOMED (Cardiomed) complex, without the Chibis-M ODNT and Holter BP (blood pressure) devices.
 
Anton completed his 9<sup>th</sup> data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.         [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
At the WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) in the Lab, Burbank performed troubleshooting on the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera), manually powering up the ISSAC laptop, checking for error messages, copying log files to a USB memory stick for OCA downlink and taking screen shots.        [ISSAC’s function is to take frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
In the Kibo laboratory, the CDR conducted another session with the CFE-2 (Capillary Flow Experiments 2) payload, today performing fluid test runs using the ICF1 (Interior Corner Flow 1) hardware in the MWA WSA (Maintenance Work Area \ Work Surface Area) with ICF1 “C” vessel (in the test, one small bubble is created in the transport tube and compressed.  The result is recorded, and then the test is then repeated once with a smaller bubble).  The session was video-recorded.  Afterwards, the equipment was torn down and stowed away.         [CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  To predict the behavior of liquids in microgravity, one tool scientists use is an open-source computer program called SE-FIT (Surface Evolver Fluid Interface Tool), which is an accurate predictor of the liquid-surface shape in space.  For the CFE experiment, engineers are using SE-FIT to predict the behavior of liquids with varying test container shapes. The program's predicted liquid-gas behavior has explained extremely small changes or even imperfections in container shape during the on-orbit study that led to large changes in liquid behavior.  By using these predictions, engineers can design tanks &amp; equipment to keep the fluids flowing with the correct distribution of liquids &amp; gases in microgravity.  This also means that under certain conditions pumps and other mechanical equipment, such as centrifuges or thruster firings, will not be necessary to move liquids through the plumbing structure of space vehicles.  ICF (Interior Corner Flow) is one of three CFE experiments, the others being VG (Vane Gap) and CL (Contact Line).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]  
 
Ivanishin conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Anatoly also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur),
 
Afterwards, FE-2 performed periodic service of the RS radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), verifying proper function of the radiation detectors by taking readings from the LULIN-5 electronics box located in the MRM1 Rassvet module near the spherical “phantom”.       [A total of eight Bubble dosimeter detectors (dosimeters (A41, A42, A43, A44, A45, A46, A47, A48) are deployed in the RS.  The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls.]
 
In the Zvezda SM, Kononenko swapped EPP electrical food warmers (elektropodogrevatelya pishchi), removing unit A4 (at panel 436) and replacing it with a new spare.  A second food warmer, A3 (panel 436), was removed and stowed (to be used to provide hot meals to the crew during an EVA), with its place taken by the A4 unit.
 
Kononenko also continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, today working ~1h 20m in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoj Blok) cleaning the vent screens of panels 116, 316, 231 &amp; 431.
 
André restarted the ALTEA (Anomalous Long Term Effects on Astronauts) Shield radiation dosimetry payload in ER2 (EXPRESS Rack 2), to resume data collection.
 
At ~7:15am EST, Don Pettit conducted a teleconference with ground specialists to discuss plans &amp; recommendations for stowage of ATV3-delivered food, suggested priority of consumption, etc., as well as questions from engineers poring over the crew’s recent attempts at BCR (Bar Code Reader) troubleshooting.
 
At ~8:00am, Kuipers powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 8:10pm conducted ham radio session with children at ESA-ESTEC#2, Noordwijk, Netherlands, who won the Ruimteschip Aarde (Spaceship Earth) competition.     [In this competition André Kuipers challenged them to turn their class room into a spaceship and to think very good about what they and their class mates needed to survive in space for a very long time.  They showed their results in videos.  In some of the questions the children referred to inventions they made for this competition, such as the Poep Brandstof Generator (Poop Fuel Generator) and the Geur Vergeet Geheugen Machine (a machine that makes it possible to smell forgotten scents from earth).]
 
Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Dan turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Before sleeptime, Anatoly Ivanishin will prepare the Russian MBI-12 payload and start his 5<sup>th</sup> Sonokard experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
FE-1, FE-2, FE-4 &amp; FE-5 had their regular weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, André at ~9:00 am, Anatoly at ~11:20am, Oleg at ~12:15pm, Anton at ~1:00pm EST.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4).      [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND leg muscle self scan in COL.  Today’s exercise called for T2, with ARED+CEVIS (VO<sub>2</sub>max) and CEVIS following in the next 2 days.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.]
 
Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on Krasnaya Polyana, Laganakskoe plateau, Volga River Delta, Aral Sea, the glaciers of the Pamir, the Kolka &amp; Allalin glaciers, and the Santa Maria volcano,</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).</li></ul> 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Budapest, Hungary (Capital Cities Collection: The beautiful Hungarian capital city of 1.75 million sits astride the Danube River in the north central part of the country.  ISS had a late morning pass in fair weather with an approach from the SW.  At this time the crew was to look nadir for views of Budapest located just SE of a major right-angle bend in the course of the Danube.  Trying to get mapping shots of this city), and Melbourne, Australia (City Lights: As ISS tracked SE over Australia at night, the crew was to look nadir along the southern coast of New South Wales for the capital city of Victoria and second most populated city in Australia).
 

