
Crew-8 Dock: SpaceX Crew Dragon Endeavour, successfully docked to the ISS at 1:28 AM CST. The ISS crew welcomed aboard NASA astronauts Matthew Dominick, Michael Barratt, and Jeanette Epps, along with Roscosmos cosmonaut Aleksandr Grebenkin. The ISS crew complement has officially increased from 7 to 11.
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Standard Measures pre-sleep questionnaires were filled out and vestibular examinations were performed in support of the CIPHER suite of investigations. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being. 
Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI): The new crewmembers reviewed the On-Board Training (OBT) package to prepare for use of the MELFI freezer/refrigerators. MELFIs are cold storage units capable of maintaining experiment samples at ultra-cold temperatures throughout a mission. The MELFI units use nitrogen as a working fluid and have standard set points of -95°C, -35°C and +2°C.
Motion Sickness Countermeasures (MSC): A motion sickness questionnaire was filled out in support of the MSC investigation. Many astronauts experience motion sickness early during spaceflight and on the return to Earth, but medications used to prevent or treat these symptoms can have side effects such as drowsiness. Optimizing the Combination of Intranasal Scopolamine and Sensory Augmentation to Mitigate G-transition Induced Motion Sickness and Enhance Sensorimotor Performance (Motion Sickness Countermeasures) evaluates the effectiveness of motion sickness treatments, including a nasal gel form of scopolamine. Astronauts can self-administer this gel to prevent or treat motion sickness during critical mission phases including launch, landing, and recovery.
Space Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter (SpaceTED): The crew removed the memory card, transferred the data, cleaned the air inlet screen, and returned the SpaceTED unit to a nominal operating mode. Exposure to space radiation can introduce hazards to crewmember health and the function of equipment in space. Building on a previous ISS study, SpaceTED aims to develop a device to collect data on crew radiation exposure and characterize the space radiation environment. This low-cost, portable device may be able to better assess radiation risks and help protect crewmembers, and systems, on long-term missions.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace: Today, the crew conducted routine maintenance to R&R the WHC UR and IF. As part of the R&R, the crew cleaned the WHC power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance. The UR On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) consists of a replaceable Russian-supplied funnel, urine hose, and a receptacle switch for turning the WHC On/Off.
Transfer Crew-8 Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew began transferring cargo from the Crew-8 Dragon to the ISS. The Crew-8 Dragon is scheduled to remain at the ISS until August, before it undocks to return the crew, cargo and payloads to the ground. 
ISS Safety Briefing: After the arrival of Crew-8, all crewmembers reviewed the emergency responses, the potential hazards, and the locations of the emergency equipment on-board the ISS. The briefing is meant to give both the oncoming and the current crew a refresher on how to properly handle depressurization, fire, toxic hazard release scenario, or other off-nominal situations. The crew also discussed egress and safe translation paths through the ISS modules. A more detailed review of all the emergency hardware will be held during the Emergency Hardware Familiarization On-Board Training (OBT) activity planned for Thursday, March 7th. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan: Today, the crew performed eye exams using ultrasound equipment. Eye exams are performed regularly to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Handover of Increment 71 Crew: After Crew-8 went through a small adaptation period, the ISS crew familiarized the newly arrived crewmembers with living and working on the ISS. On the first day, the crew discussed the location of clothing, toiletries, ISS Medical Accessory Kit (IMAKs), and personal items. The crew also went over the use of the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) and assigned Personal Breathing Apparatus (PBAs) to Crew-8 in case of an overnight emergency. Once the crew was finished, the ISS crew assisted Crew-8 in the preparation of food and drinks in their new home.
