
Payloads
Asian Herb Watering: The crew performed a periodic watering for the plants growing in the Asian Herb experiment. The plants will grow for a period of around 30 days, then be preserved for return to the ground. Microgravity affects the growth of plants and understanding the nature of these changes is important for future missions that will rely on plants for food. Asian Herbs in Space studies fast-growing plants used for traditional medicine and flavoring food, examining differences in their aroma that may result from microgravity-related cellular changes. This investigation benefits future plant growth efforts in space, and provides new information on the formation of aroma compounds in common herbs.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (CIR/ACME): The crew performed the first part of the work needed to reconfigure the ACME chamber insert from Coflow Laminar Diffusion (CLD) support to Cool Flames Investigation with Gases (CFIG) support, the next ACME experiment to be performed. Cool diffusion flames were discovered during droplet combustion experiments aboard the ISS in 2012, and this initiated a rapidly growing field of combustion research. A cool flame is one that burns at about 600 degrees Celsius. A typical candle is about two-and-a-half times hotter, burning at around 1,400 degrees Celsius. Most internal combustion engines are designed using computer models that neglect cool flame chemistry, but ignition and flame propagation in engines depend on cool flame chemistry. Cool flame chemistry also has a significant impact on fuel octane and cetane numbers, whose understanding has large economic consequences.
Fluids Integrated Rack/Light Microscopy Module (FIR/LMM)/(Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE): The crew gathered and took images of ACE Modules S/Ns 2018, 2014, 2016. These images are used to determine the status and viability of the various modules in order to better plan future science. The FIR is a fluid physics research facility designed to host investigations in areas such as colloids, gels, bubbles, wetting and capillary action, and phase changes, including boiling and condensation. It has also been used to hold plant growth experiments.
ISS Experience Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Z-cam: The crew removed The ISS Experience EVA Z-Cam from the JEM Airlock Slide Table. During its time outside the ISS, the team was not able to successfully power up the camera system. Several resistance and diode troubleshooting checks were performed during the removal, but all values were within the nominal range. The ground team is discussing a forward plan. The ISS Experience is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station. Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.
JAXA Video Take-6: The crew set up the appropriate hardware and recorded various experiment activities as requested by junior and high school students. The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Public Relations Activity (JAXA EPO) includes conducting cultural activities such as writing reports about and filming video of activities aboard the ISS. These tools can help inform the public about the importance of the ISS, JAXA’s Kibo module, and human spaceflight.
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment – Water Recovery (PBRE-WR): The crew performed a routine inspection for water leakage during the PBRE-WR series of experiments. They also exchanged two experiment data hard drives. PBRE-WR examines flow rates of gas and liquid through a filtering substrate in the space station water processor, replacing oxygen with nitrogen. This investigation could help identify optimum conditions and enhance accuracy of models that predict simultaneous flow of gas and liquid (two-phase flow) in microgravity.
VEG-03K/L Harvest: The crew performed partial harvests from the plants growing in the two Veggie facilities, allowing the plants to continue growing to support future harvests. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. But future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03 I/J/K/L (Veg-03) uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate Extra Dwarf Pak Choi, Amara Mustard and Red Romaine Lettuce using Seed Film which are harvested on orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing.
Systems
Post-EVA Operations: The crew performed several activities in order to put hardware used during the ISS Upgrades 3 EVA into a good post-EVA configuration. The crew performed a cooling loop scrub on Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) 3004 and 3015 as well as the spare Hard Upper Torso (HUT) 2036. During the loop scrub, the EMU Data Recorder (EDaR) software for EMU 3004 was updated via ground uplink. After completion of the loop scrubs, the crew configured the hardware for a two-hour Iodination. Due to a leaking jumper the crew was unable to complete the Iodinations in parallel and instead performed the Iodination for EMU 3004 first and then reconfigured the good jumper to perform the Iodination to EMU 3015 and HUT. Finally, the crew terminated the 1st Metal Oxide (METOX) regeneration cycle and initiated then initiated the 2nd cycle for METOX Canisters.
EVA Preparations: The crew performed several activities in preparation for the ISS Upgrades 3.5 EVA. The crew completed an EVA Ammonia On-Board Training (OBT) and reviewed EVA fluid Quick Disconnect (QD) operational procedures. The crew also reviewed Dynamic On-board Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) animations to view the step-by-step sequence of the EVA. Finally, the crew completed a checkout of the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) to verify sufficient Nitrogen quantity is available and performed battery operations for EMU Long Life Batteries (LLBs) and Lithium Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (LREBAs).

