
Payloads:
Investigating Structure and Function of the Eye (ISAFE): In preparation for experiment activities, the crew reviewed the Big Picture Words package. Microgravity causes blood and cerebrospinal fluid to shift toward the head, which is believed to be an underlying cause of structural changes to the eyes, known as “Spaceflight Associated Neuro-Ocular Syndrome” or SANS. ISAFE measures eye, brain, and blood vessel changes during missions of several lengths to determine whether SANS varies with mission length, whether these changes recover when crew members return to Earth, and how long any potential recovery takes. Results could help predict eye changes on future long-duration spaceflights, such as trips to Mars, and support development of methods to protect astronauts’ eyes.
Standard Measures: The crew collected samples and answered pre-sleep questionnaires. Spaceflight Standard Measures collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crew members until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Systems:
69S Soyuz Seat Liner Installation: Today, the crew removed the additional seat liner from Crew-5 Dragon and installed it in 69S Soyuz. The crew then tested the newly installed seat liner and reviewed updated roles and responsibilities in the event of an emergency. Each 69S Soyuz crewmembers has a custom molded seat liner that will protect them during launch, reentry, and landing.
Crew Dragon Pallet Hardware Installation: The crew removed straps and hardware previously installed to support the additional seat liner on Crew-5 spacecraft. Following the removal of the additional seat hardware, the crew re-installed the nominal hardware on pallets 6 and 7 for return.
ISS Crew Handover and Adaptation: Over the weekend, the experienced Endurance Crew and 69S crew started a handover with the newly arrived Endeavour Crew to transfer knowledge of the intricacies of onboard equipment and working in microgravity. The newly arrived crew member executed activities and the experienced crew member provided oversight and assistance.
