
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): This week’s CIPHER testing continued with the performance of Optical Coherence Tomography 2 (OCT2), Pneumotonometry (PTM), and blood pressure measurements. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Flawless Space Fibers-1 (FSF-1): The experiment hardware was powered off in preparation for a furnace seal exchange later in the week. FSF-1 has been able to successfully demonstrate multiple successful ZBLAN fiber draws during their experiment operations. Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consists of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3, and 20% NaF. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
Project EAGLE: The crew took samples and exchanged media in the Project EAGLE BioCells. The media contains nutrients and a pH buffer to sustain cells, and needs to be exchanged periodically as the nutrients are used up and waste products accumulate. Culturing human cardiomyocytes (heart cells) holds potential for disease modelling and drug discovery. In microgravity, cardiac cells can grow into three dimensional cultures that have better structural maturation compared with two dimensional cultures grown on Earth. Engineering Stem Cell-Derived Cardiac Microtissues with Metabolic Regulators in Space to Promote Cardiomyocyte Maturation (Project EAGLE) grows three dimensional cultures of cardiomyocytes that could provide a better model of heart disease and improve assessments of therapeutic measures.
Systems:
On-board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization: The crew guided each Endeavour crewmember through the various emergency hardware and procedures in place on the USOS and RS. Due to the complex nature of emergencies in space, it is crucial each crewmember is fully conscious of the location of emergency equipment and valve positions used during emergencies. 
Handover of Increment 71 Crew: After Crew-8 went through a small adaptation period, the ISS crew familiarized the newly arrived crewmembers with living and working on the ISS. Today, the crew discussed hygiene operations, food preparation, floating techniques including tips and tricks for maneuvering around the ISS, the use of crew dosimeters, and how various tones and alarms sound on-orbit rather than in the Space Vehicle Mockup Facility (SVMF). All of these discussions are vital for the oncoming crew to properly adjust to life on the ISS and to learn from the experiences of the crew before them. 
SpaceX Crew Dragon Deorbit Paper Simulation: In preparation for their departure, Crew-7 conducted a Deorbit Paper Simulation with the SpaceX Ground Team. This activity is performed through a video conference call to discuss the deorbit and return procedures from start to finish. The main goal of a simulation like this is to get the crew thinking about how they would solve a problem if it occurred.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew performed cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-20 cargo vehicle. NG-20 arrived on February 1st, and is scheduled to remain on the ISS until July, when it will be unberthed for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. Due to its destructive re-entry, Cygnus provides an opportunity to offload some of the unwanted mass onboard the ISS.
