
Payloads
Actiwatch Plus: A crewmember connected Actiwatch units to the Human Research Facility (HRF)-2 rack to allow ground teams to downlink data. The Actiwatch is a waterproof, nonintrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. The device contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data are stored in nonvolatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Artemis Hybrid Electronic Radiation Assessor (HERA) on Space Station (A-HoSS): The Artemis HERA hardware was setup and activated. A-HoSS demonstrates software to refine data analysis and operational products for future exploration missions. It modifies the HERA, built to operate as the primary radiation detection system for Orion and certified for flight on Artemis 2, to operate on the space station. The investigation provides an opportunity to evaluate this hardware in the space radiation environment prior to the Artemis 2 flight.
Bio-Analyzer: The crew performed a powerup and checkout of the Bio-Analyzer unit. Bio-Analyzer is a Canadian Space Agency (CSA) onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit quantification of biological molecules and cellular composition in samples collected and prepared aboard the ISS.
Real-Time Protein Crystal Growth-2 (RTPCG-2): The crew loaded protein crystallography plates with protein solutions, mixed in the custom salt solutions, sealed each plate and transferred them into Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL)-3 for incubation. RTPCG-2 demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity produces high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 produces high-quality protein crystals for up to eight proteins for detailed analysis back on Earth.
Ribosome Profiling: The crew refilled water into the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Humidifier Water Tank in support of the Ribosome Profiling experiment. Since life on Earth emerged about 4 billion years ago, living species have evolutionally adjusted to Earth’s gravity. However, how cells utilize gravity for their gene expression has remained largely unknown. The Genome-wide Survey of Translational Control in Microgravity (Ribosome Profiling) investigation aims to provide insight into how gravity impacts gene expression, with a special focus on translation regulation utilizing a state-of-art technique called “ribosome profiling”.
Spacesuit Evaporation Rejection Flight Experiment (SERFE): The crew collected a water sample from the SERFE hardware and performed a microbial analysis. SERFE demonstrates a new technology to remove heat from spacesuits and maintain appropriate temperatures for crew members and equipment during space walks. The technology uses evaporation of water for cooling. The investigation determines whether microgravity affects performance and evaluates the technology’s effect on contamination and corrosion of spacesuit material.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed several activities in preparation for the ISS Upgrades III EVA. The crew performed Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) resize for EMU 3009, re-filled both EMU water tanks, and configured tools for the EVA. Additionally, the crew reviewed procedures for the ISS Upgrades III EVA and participated in a conference with the ground. The ISS Upgrades III EVA (United States On-orbit Segment EVA 72) is scheduled for Friday, March 5th.
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Ingress: The crew cleared stowage in Node 3 aft in order to open the hatch and ingress BEAM. The crew then performed a Remove & Replace (R&R) of the Wireless Temperature System (WTS) Transceiver with a spare in effort to recover communication between all four sets of the WTS sensors and the BEAM laptop. Next, the crew performed hardware stowage operations and retrieved a spare Wireless Video System External Transceiver Assembly (WETA) which is planned to be used for an R&R during the ISS Upgrades III EVA. Once operations were complete, the crew egressed BEAM, re-installed the BEAM hatch, and closed the Node 3 aft hatch.

