
Water Recovery System (WRS) In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Procedure Review: On February 25th, the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) had a fault due to a leak into catalytic reactor (approximately 1 liter of water). The catalytic reactor is scheduled to be removed and replaced (R&Rd) tomorrow.  Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Hopkins and FE-5 Mastracchio conducted a procedures review followed by a crew conference with ground teams.  In addition,  Mastracchio finished tools that will be needed for the activity.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: Hopkins performed this routine maintenance, conducting inspections to verify Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFE), Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs) and Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs) are free of damage.
Ocular Health (OH) Cardiac and Ocular Ultrasounds:  Mastracchio assisted Wakata in conducting ocular and cardiac ultrasound scans as part of Wakata’s Flight Day 120 OH session.  Remote guidance was provided by ground experts to ensure proper positioning and data collection. These ultrasounds are used to identify changes in ocular globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement.  Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent postflight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies and clinical practice guidelines.
Microbiome: As part of his ongoing Return minus 14 (R-14) flight day session of the Microbiome investigation, Hopkins completed survey questions and performed body sample collections.  The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). Samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment are taken periodically. The study will assess the likelihood and consequences of alterations in the microbiome due to extreme environments and the related human health risks.
Marangoni Operations:  Wakata cleaned the inside of the Marangoni Deformation 30 (MD30) Core that was removed from the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) yesterday.  He exchanged MD30 O-rings and Absorbent.  Tomorrow he will install the MD10 Core in the MD10 Body and on Friday he will close out the Marangoni operations with installation of the Infrared Imager and MD10 in the FPEF.
NanoRacks Module 9 Investigation: Mastracchio activated and shook designated mixing tubes for the fifth of six NanoRacks Module 9 sessions.  For this investigation student teams from across the United States designed their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. This investigation is part of the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP), which is sponsored by the commercial Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education program that is overseen by the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE).
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) Firmware Update: Today, ground controllers updated the firmware in RPCM’s P12B_A and P11A_A.  The update provides the capability for hot mate/demate and additional data gathering.

