
DOSIS 3D (Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D): The crew swapped cables inside the DOSIS main box in order to remove the DOSTEL-1 unit and prep it for return on SpX-20. This experiment uses active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS and provides documentation of the actual nature and distribution of the radiation fields. A concise three dimensional dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS will be developed based on this data and data from JAXA and NASA monitoring devices.
EarthKAM (Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools): The crew de-installed and stowed the EarthKam Camera unit. This completes Mission 69 objectives. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
JAXA Mouse Mission: The crew performed Mouse Mission-5 cage preparations for animal arrivals on SpX-20. This involved installation of the odor filter, food cartridges and water fills of the cage unit. The purpose of this mission is to analyze any alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term space environment.
STaARS BioScience-9: The crew inserted Cryotube kit S/N 1010 into the cold stowage. This is the third of five samples that are being processed. Tapping Microgravity to Enhance Biofuel Production (STaARS BioScience-9) aims to identify novel biological mechanisms using genetically modified Escherichia coli (E. coli) to improve the bio-production of isobutene to an extent that economically competes with petrochemical production processes.
OsteoOmics: The crew performed a BioCell Media Changeout in BioCell habitat S/N 3B. Millions of Americans experience bone loss, which results from disease or the reduced effects of gravity that can occur in bed-ridden patients. OsteoOmics tests whether magnetic levitation accurately simulates the free-fall conditions of microgravity by comparing genetic expression osteoblastic cells, a type of bone cell, levitated in a high-field superconducting magnet with cells flown in low-Earth orbit. This information helps scientists determine the molecular and metabolic changes that take place in magnetic levitation and real microgravity.
Systems
Dragon On-Board Training (OBT): The crew spent their afternoon participating in a robotics OBT session in preparation for the SpX-20 Dragon arrival later this week. Today’s session was the first in a series of Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) sessions designed to help the crew maintain their training proficiency. The ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. Dragon launch is currently scheduled for March 7th at 10:49 CT. Capture and berthing is planned for the morning of March 9th, with an ISS/Dragon rendezvous time of ~6:00 am CT.

