
Nanoracks CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD): Overnight, 4 Dove satellites were successfully launched from Deployers 5 and 6. Two additional deploys are scheduled for this evening. 
Cardio Ox: The Crew set up and configured ultrasound hardware.  Cristoforetti acted as Crew Medical Officer (CMO) to support Wilmore’s return minus 15 days (R-15) Cardio Ox session.  With guidance from the Cardio Ox ground team, ultrasound scans and blood pressure measurements were performed on Wilmore. The objective of Defining the Relationship Between Biomarkers of Oxidative and Inflammatory Stress and the Risk for Atherosclerosis in Astronauts During and After Long-duration Spaceflight (Cardio Ox) is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers will provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15 and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries will be obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
Aniso Tubule:  Cristoforetti prepared an Aniso Tubule sample by injecting water into an Aniso sample chamber and stowed the sample chamber into MELFI cold stowage.  This begins Run #9 which will continue for 9 days. The crew removed the sample from run #8 from the Microscope Scanning Stage and stowed.  Experimenters will examine growth modifications of Arabidopsis hypocotyls and the changing orientation of cortical microtubule under microgravity conditions in space. Scientists will further observe changes in dynamics of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins by observing Arabidopsis hypocotyls and microtubule-associated proteins with a fluorescence microscope.
Astro Palate:  Virts retrieved a special Astro Palate prepackaged meal, consumed as his midday meal and completed the Mood and Food Consumption/Satisfaction Questionnaires.  Factors Contributing to Food Acceptability and Consumption, Mood and Stress on Long-Term Space Missions (Astro Palate) studies the relationship among emotions, mood, stress and eating during spaceflight. The study explores ways to minimize stressful aspects of the eating situation so that individuals consume more food and are better satisfied with it. Additionally, the experiment examines ways to use eating itself to reduce the stress or negative moods that crewmembers might normally experience in flight. 
Post Extravehicular Activity (EVA):  USOS crew members and ground teams conducted a debrief to discuss last Sunday’s successful EVA.  The crew completed loop scrubs and Airlock deconfiguration.
Fluids Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) Remove & Replace (R&R):  In response to Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) failure that occurred on February 17th, this morning Wilmore R&Rd the FCPA. Ground teams have since reactivated the system and have started a process cycle without issue.
40 Soyuz (40S) Return Prep/ISS Reboost using 58 Progress (58P):  Earlier this morning, Mission Control Center-Moscow (MCC-M) performed an ISS reboost to complete the ISS phasing for 40S landing in the southern zone next week.  The initial test burn using 58P was successfully performed last Thursday.

