
Payloads:
Human Research Program (HRP) sample collection: The crew collected multiple body samples in support of the Food Physiology, Repository, Host Pathogen, and Standard Measures investigations.  Food Physiology is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. Repository is a storage bank that is used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time to support future research. Host Pathogen analyzes the relationship between the increased microbial virulence and reduced human immune function commonly observed during orbital spaceflight. Standard Measures collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions.
Immunity Assay (IA): The crew gathered the appropriate hardware, began set up of the Kubik facilities, and reviewed the Big Picture Words package in support of the upcoming IA science operations. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test. Up until now, this test could only be accomplished on Earth, and conducted pre- and postflight. With the help of a newly developed assay tube, researchers can also execute this test inflight, which allows for a much clearer assessment of the immune changes that happen in flight.
Veg-05: The plants growing in the two Veggie facilities were inspected, watered if needed, and photographed. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization: Sergey Prokopyev and Frank Rubio guided each Endeavour crewmember through the various emergency hardware and procedures in place on the USOS and RS. Due to the complex nature of emergencies in space, it is crucial each crewmember is fully conscious of the location of emergency equipment and valve positions used during emergencies.
