
Payloads:
Electromagnetic Levitator (EML): The various helium and argon gas valves were cycled to verify correct routing of gas hoses. EML is a multi-user facility that provides containerless melting and solidification of electrically conductive, spherical samples, under ultra-high vacuum and/or high purity gas environments. Heating and positioning of the sample is achieved by electromagnetic fields generated by a coil system. The EML supports research in the field of meta-stable states and phases and in the field of measurement of highly accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys in the stable and undercooled state.
UNIGLO (Universal Intelligent Glass Optics): Lab camera 2 orientation was performed to point the camera at the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) work volume. This was done in support of the UNIGLO experiment, which is currently installed in the MSG and performing calibrations. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Rodent Research-18 (RR-18): The appropriate experiment hardware was set up earlier in the week, and the RR-18 activities continued today. Astronauts returning from space can experience eye problems, along with headaches and blurred vision. Scientists suspect environmental conditions during spaceflight lead to oxidative stress that adversely affects the eye structure and function. Space Flight Environment Induces Remodeling of Vascular Network and Glia-vascular Communication in Mouse Retina (Rodent Research-18) investigates how spaceflight affects visual function, examining changes in the vascular system of the retina, tissue remodeling and cell-cell interactions in mice.
Sampling Quadrangle Assemblages Research Experiment (SQuARE): The crew took photos of the SQuARE experiment sites located in the Node 1 Galley, JEM, Columbus, Node 2, and the US Lab.  SQuARE is an investigation that aims to document items within six defined locations around the ISS over time. The idea is to look at the ISS as an archaeological site, and each of the Squares as a “test pit”.
Systems:
Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 System (T2) Activities: As a result of findings from monthly regular maintenance to ensure the T2 exercise device is in good operational condition, the crew inspected the T2 Vibration Isolation System (VIS) components for any off-nominal hardware conditions. The crew aligned the T2 snubbers and centered the T2 rack using the T2 isolators and performed a tool fit check of the rack sway space. These activities were performed in order to correct a misalignment with the snubber pins and return T2 to operating condition.  T2 is now Go for use.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Oxygen Generation Assembly Pump ORU Sample: As part of preventive maintenance, the crew sampled the OGA Pump ORU. Crewmembers took a 20mL sample from a spare OGA Pump ORU on the Maintenance Work Area (MWA), and then prepped additional hardware for a sample flush and temperary stow.

