
Cube Satellite (CubeSat) Closeout Operations:  Today, Flight Engineer (FE) 6 Wakata and FE-3 Hopkins closed out the Nanorack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) operations.  This morning the slide table was moved from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock into the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM).  Later, the crew removed the empty Nanoracks Cubesat Deployers (NRCSDs) and Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP)  from the slidetable and stowed them.  The slidetable was moved back into the Airlock.
Ocular Health (OH) Examination:  As part of his Flight Day 120 session, Wakata completed a vision test, then with assistance from FE-5 Mastracchio, had his blood pressure measured and a tonometry test performed. The Ocular Health protocol is a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment / intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers.  Researchers believe the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Microbiome:  As part of his Return minus 14 (R-14) flight day session of the Microbiome investigation, FE-3 Hopkins answered survey questions and collected a water sample from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD).  The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). Samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment are taken periodically. The study will assess the likelihood and consequences of alterations in the microbiome due to extreme environments and the related human health risks.
Device for the study of Critical Liquids and Crystallization (DECLIC) Investigation:  Wakata removed the DECLIC ALICE-Like Insert (ALI) from the DECLIC Experiment Locker and replaced it with the High Temperature Insert (HTI).  DECLIC is a multi-user facility utilized to study transparent media and their phase transitions in microgravity onboard the ISS.  The flow of heat during boiling events is different in microgravity than it is on Earth.  The High Temperature Insert (HTI) portion of DECLIC studies water near its critical point.
iPad Application Installation:  The USOS iPads were loaded with 6 new applications.  These new applications include a light meter for use on a SpX3 payload, crew preference applications, and an Accelerometer application that has the potential to be used in the future to provide crews real time feedback on exercise equipment vibrations.
Audio System Fiber Optic Buss B Troubleshooting:  On Sunday, Flight Controllers were able to successfully clear Passive Built-in Test (PBIT) faults associated with fiber optic buss B.  As part of this activity, the USOS Audio System was deactivated then systematically powered back on in order to isolate which device was causing the disruption on buss B.  As a result, the Columbus Starboard Audio Terminal Unit (ATU) was suspected of causing the buss B faults and has since been isolated from the rest of the Audio System.   The system has been operating nominally with no faults reported on either buss A or B since the activity took place.  Ground teams will continue their investigation into the Columbus Starboard ATU.

