
Payloads:
Analyzing Interferometer for Ambient Air-2 (ANITA-2): Science modules were removed from the Columbus European Physiology Module (EPM) and the ANITA-2 hardware was installed. The ANITA-2 is a compact gas analyzer which can analyze and quantify 33 trace contaminants in the atmosphere aboard the ISS automatically. ANITA-2 can also detect the presence of unknown substances which can be evaluated later on the ground.
Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI): Crew inserted Icebricks into MELFI units 1, 2, and 3. The MELFI is a cold storage unit capable of maintaining experiment samples at ultra-cold temperatures throughout a mission. The MELFI units use nitrogen as a working fluid and have standard set points of -95°C, -35°C and 2°C.
Plant Habitat-03A: Water was removed from the Plant Habitat Distribution Reservoir. Plants exposed to environmental stress, including spaceflight, undergo epigenetic changes that involve adding extra information to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) rather than changing existing information. Epigenetic Adaptation to the Spaceflight Environment – Accumulated Genomic Change Induced by Generations in Space (Plant Habitat-03) assesses whether epigenetic adaptations in one generation of plants grown in space can transfer to the next generation. This could help identify genetic elements that increase the adaptability of plants to spaceflight, a first step toward developing cultivars better suited to provide food and air and water purification in life support systems on future space missions.
Veg-05: The plants growing in the two Veggie facilities were inspected, watered as needed, and photographed. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-18 cargo vehicle, loading items like common trash for disposal. NG-18 is planned to remain at the space station until early April before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere.
Endurance Crew Departure Preparation: The Endurance crew was allotted time to prepare for their departure and the arrival of Crew-6. During this time, the crew prepared personal items for return and performed cleaning, stowage, and inventory tasks.
