
Payloads:
Bacterial Adhesion and Corrosion (BAC): The BAC BioCell Habitat was removed from its Space Automated Laboratory Incubator (SALI) location and packed for return on the Crew-7 Dragon. Polymicrobial Biofilm Growth and Control during Spaceflight (Bacterial Adhesion and Corrosion) explores the formation under microgravity conditions of multi-species biofilms, which may behave differently from single-species biofilms. This investigation identifies the bacterial genes used during biofilm growth, examines whether these biofilms can corrode stainless steel, and evaluates the effectiveness of a silver-based disinfectant. The microorganisms in biofilms can become resistant to traditional cleaning chemicals, leading to contamination of water treatment systems, damage to equipment, and potential health risks to astronauts. 
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of two experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems, as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Blood pressure monitoring, ultrasound scans, and questionnaires were performed in support of the CIPHER suite of investigations. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
DOSIS-3D: The crew retrieved the eleven dosimeters associated with Crew-7, and deployed the dosimeters associated with Crew-8. These passive dosimeters are deployed throughout COL and used to measure the radiation environment. ISS crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation, which can be harmful to their health. DOSIS-3D uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS.
Motion Sickness Countermeasures (MSC): A motion sickness questionnaire was filled out in support of the MSC investigation. Many astronauts experience motion sickness early during spaceflight and on the return to Earth, but medications used to prevent or treat these symptoms can have side effects such as drowsiness. Optimizing the Combination of Intranasal Scopolamine and Sensory Augmentation to Mitigate G-transition Induced Motion Sickness and Enhance Sensorimotor Performance (Motion Sickness Countermeasures) evaluates the effectiveness of motion sickness treatments, including a nasal gel form of scopolamine. Astronauts can self-administer this gel to prevent or treat motion sickness during critical mission phases including launch, landing, and recovery.
Manufacturing of Semiconductors and Thin-Film Integrated Coatings (MSTIC): The crew began installing the MSTIC experiment hardware into its EXPRESS rack 1 location. The ground team is currently discussing a forward plan to resolve communication issues and vacuum cable connection issues. MSTIC examines the effects of microgravity on deposited thin films used in semiconductor manufacturing. Manufacturing these films in microgravity may improve their quality and reduce the materials, equipment, and labor required. The investigation also explores differences in the microstructure of thin films produced in microgravity and on the ground.
Project EAGLE: Media bags were inserted into refrigerated stowage until they are needed to support experiment activities. Culturing human cardiomyocytes (heart cells) holds potential for disease modeling and drug discovery. In microgravity, cardiac cells can grow into 3D cultures that have better structural maturation when compared with 2D cultures grown on Earth. Engineering Stem Cell-Derived Cardiac Microtissues with Metabolic Regulators in Space to Promote Cardiomyocyte Maturation (Project EAGLE) grows 3D cultures of cardiomyocytes that could provide a better model of heart disease and improve assessment of therapeutic measures.
Space Organogenesis-2: In preparation for the Space Organogenesis-2 experiment, the crew set up the microscope and supporting laptop, removed the plate holder, and installed the 3D chamber holder. The Development of Advanced 3D Organ Culture System Utilizing the Microgravity Environment (Space Organogenesis) investigation demonstrates growth of organ buds from human stem cells in three-dimensional cultures in microgravity. Researchers plan to use these cultures to observe growth of the organ buds and analyze changes in gene expression. Cell cultures on Earth are limited to two dimensions but in microgravity, cell cultures likely can expand into three dimensions.
Systems:
Crew-7 Dragon Suit Checkout: The Crew-7 crewmembers confirmed their SpaceX Dragon Suits fit and are operable prior to the Crew-7 Dragon departure. Checkouts of these suits included checking their fitment and zippers, checking the earpieces using the Dragon audio, and a general suit inspection with a focus on the suit’s boots.
Transfer Crew-8 Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued transferring cargo from the Crew-8 Dragon to the ISS. The Crew-8 Dragon is scheduled to remain at the ISS until August, before it undocks to return the crew, cargo and payloads to the ground.
Emergency Equipment Transfer: Today, the crew transferred emergency hardware from the ISS to the SpaceX Crew Dragon Endeavour after the Crew-8 arrival. This activity included enabling the powered cargo slots, destowing the US ammonia filter fan, and transferring the emergency air supply, with the US Crewed Vehicle (USCV) Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Mount, to the Crew Dragon.
Emergency/Loss of Attitude Control (LOAC) Roles and Responsibilities Review: The entire crew reviewed the on-board Emergency procedures and discussed how to recover Attitude Control or safe the ISS during an extended LOAC. During an Emergency Response, the first priority is the safety of the crew followed by achieving a safe configuration of the ISS. While living on the ISS, the three major emergency scenarios the crew may experience are a rapid depressurization of a module, a fire within the ISS, or a toxic atmosphere due to an ammonia leak or other harmful substance. Each emergency scenario has its own procedures and possible solutions, including potentially demanning the ISS. The crew also reviewed all parts of a LOAC scenario including each crewmember’s roles and responsibilities, and the related procedures. A Loss of ISS Attitude Control may be declared due to failures on either US Master or RS Master Attitude control.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Electrical Power System (EPS) Troubleshooting: The crew conducted troubleshooting steps on the UTS EPS due to recent UTS power feed trips. The troubleshooting consisted of demating connectors in the UTS power path and having the ground close power feeds to exonerate components in the UTS power path. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and WHC or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
