
Payloads:
Collapsible Contingency Urinal (CCU): As part of an on-going series of tests, the crew used the CCU system. The CCU is an exploration hardware flown to the ISS as a tech demo. The approach includes a fractal wetting design that incorporates smart capillary fluidics. This work could have a broad impact on capillary-based fluid management on spacecraft and on Earth.
Crew Interactive Mobile companioN (CIMON): The CIMON system was connected to power and two USB memory sticks inserted into the appropriate ports. This will allow software reconfiguration and testing to occur. The Pilot Study with CIMON is a technology demonstration project, and an observational study, that aims to obtain the first insights into the effects on crew support by an Artificial Intelligence (AI), in terms of efficiency and acceptance during long-term missions in space. Spaceflight missions put the crew under a substantial amount of stress and workload, and it is thought that AI could provide operational support to crew members.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (CIR/SOFIE): The crew gained access to the interior of the CIR, removed the Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) insert for the last time, and began installation of the SoFIE insert. This is part of a multi-day series of activities to reconfigure the CIR for SoFIE operations. Unfortunately, the SoFIE hardware was not able to be fully inserted into the CIR.  The ground team will assess images of the insert and develop a forward plan.  SoFIE is a hardware insert for CIR that will enable a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. While SoFIE initially meets the requirements of five investigations, is intended for use by any researchers who propose related solid combustion studies to NASA in the future.
EasyMotion: The crew donned the EasyMotion suit and then performed a Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) exercise session. The EasyMotion investigation uses whole body Electro-Myo-Stimulation (EMS) with a wearable body skin suit for an ISS crew member to perform pre- and postflight EMS-assisted exercises. EMS technology initiates spontaneous (involuntary) activation of global musculature (muscle, tendon, fascia) to be monitored (muscle tone/tension and stiffness) inflight using the non-invasive Myoton technology that is currently aboard the space station for the Myotones investigation.
NanoRacks External Platform (NREP): The Module-13 (also known as Longwave Infrared Sensing demonstratoR (LisR)) experiment hardware was installed onto the NREP system, which is currently attached to the JEM airlock slide table. The NREP will later be passed through the airlock and returned to its external location. LisR takes precise measurements of Earth’s surface temperature as a way to monitor water resources. Availability of water is a critical element in growing plants to provide food for people on Earth. Insights from the data, including evapotranspiration, or the loss of water from plants and soil to the atmosphere, could support more efficient agricultural water use. The technology includes cameras built into small satellites that can fly in swarms and cover the entire planet every day.
Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station (NutrISS): The crew set up the NutrISS bioimpedance device and performed a measurement session with the device. They also filled out the questionnaire related to the session. Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. It is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein, intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss.
TangoLab-3: In an attempt to recover a nominal data and power connection for the CubeLab Satellite KENT-SAT01 experiment, the crew removed and reattached the satellite to its payload card. The ground team subsequently verified good communication with the experiment. TangoLab is a set of reconfigurable general research facilities designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): Following the conclusion of three calibration operations, the crew removed the calibration probe and installed the crystallization probe. This will allow the science operations to begin. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: Several activities were completed in preparation for the upcoming 3A ISS Roll Out Solar Array (IROSA) EVA. The EVA Camera D4 Battery charging was initiated for two batteries for at least six hours for the EVA Camera setup, and the EVA Helmet Interchangeable Portable (EHIP) Light Lock (ELL) was installed onto EMU 3004. The crew completed Virtual Reality Training (VRT) for EVA Simplified Air for EVA Rescue (SAFER). Essentially a “life jacket” for spacewalks, SAFER is a self-contained maneuvering unit that is worn like a backpack. The system relies on small jet thrusters to let an astronaut move around in space. The External High Definition Camera (EHDC) was prepped for EVA with the EHDC Camera Port Ethernet cable connection to EHDC for Camera Port 8. The Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) was sampled to check the health of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) for EMU water use. The crew also completed the EMU Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-Board Training (OBT) and practiced the EVA Cuff Checklist procedures. The ECWS presents data to the suited crew member to monitor current EMU conditions.
Emergency Air Supply Assembly: The Emergency Air Supply Assembly was completed by installing the Regulator to the Emergency Air Supply, and performing a system flow check with a quick-don mask to verify good functionality in preparation for relocating the Emergency Air Supply into a US Crewed Vehicle.
High-Definition Video Camera Assembly (HD-VCA) 2 Activities: The HD-VCA 2 internal lithium battery was fully charged and the camera settings were restored after a complete battery discharge. The crew switched the HD-VCA 2 to HD mode, activated the microphone, and performed a voice check and a short pan shot around COL. The HD-VCA 2 was then set back to Standard Definition (SD) mode.
SpaceX Crew Dragon Return Procedure Review: Today the crew completed two refresher training activities in preparation for Crew-3 return activities. The first training reviewed Free Flight Contingencies and Emergencies, and the second training reviewed Deorbit Entry and Landing Contingencies.
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEP) Inspection: Today, the crew performed the periodic PEP inspection, which involves utilizing a PEPs matrix and inspecting various emergency provisions such as the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), Quick Don Mask (QDM), and Extension Hose Tee Assemblies at multiple locations throughout the space station. The crew spends several minutes on each item and notes any visible damage. Inspections are performed routinely to ensure the PEPs are in good operational condition.

