
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: On Saturday, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile MSS cameras and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to move the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) into position to install the spare Pump Module (PM) on External Stowage Platform (ESP) 2.  SPDM Arm 2 then installed the PM on ESP2 site 1 and released it.  Finally, Controllers maneuvered SPDM Arm 2 away from ESP2 and powered down the MSS. These operations completed the swap of the degraded PM and the spare PM between ESP2 and Express Logistics Carrier (ELC) 2.  This swap was done to better position the spare PM for a PM Remove & Replace (R&R) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) should one be required.
Airlock Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) AL2A3B_B RPC 5 Trip: On Saturday, the RPCM AL2A3B_B RPC 5 Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Temperature Control and Check Valve (TCCV) tripped followed by a Power On Reset (POR).  All powered loads on this RPCM were temporarily lost.  The upstream DC-to-DC Converter Unit (DDCU) 50 Hz data did not detect an overcurrent event. This is the common signature of a suspect RPC FET hybrid failure, as is the POR. RPC 5 was confirmed failed following an attempt to reclose the RPC.  All powered Airlock RPCM AL2A3B_B loads were recovered following the trip with the exception of RPC 5. The loss of power to the CCAA TCCV prevents the ability to command control of the temperature in the Airlock when ITCS coolant is flowing through its heat exchanger. TTCV can be actuated manually by the crew, if needed, to set the temperature in the Airlock. There are spare RPCMs available to perform an R&R.
NRCSD (JEMAL): Wilmore extended the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) JEMAL slide table, monitored soft dock of the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) to the slide table capture mechanism, retracted the slide table and powered off the remote manipulator system (RMS) monitors.
Body Measures:  Wilmore, acting as an operator, assisted Virts in setting up equipment to collect the calibration and body pose photographs and circumference measurements in support of the Body Measures experiment.  Currently, NASA does not have sufficient in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. This study will collect anthropometric data using digital still and video imagery and a tape measure to measure segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments (i.e., chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) of astronauts for pre, post, and in-flight conditions.
Dose Distribution Inside the International Space Station 3D (DOSIS 3D):  Cristoforetti collected passive Detector Packs from the Columbus Module and prepared for return on 40S.  The objective of the experiment is the determination of radiation field parameters absorbed dose and dose equivalent inside the ISS with various active and passive radiation detector devices, aiming for a concise three dimensional (3D) dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS. To achieve the three dimensional (3D) dose distribution within the ISS the Dosis 3D experiment will not only use data from their own detector systems, but also data provided by JAXA, NASA and IBMP based on their currently applied area monitoring devices.
International Docking Adapter (IDA) Ethernet Cable Install:  Cristoforetti installed a Node 2 IDA Ethernet Cable IDA Wire Harness from the Node 2 Forward Endcone to the Node 2 Integrated Station LAN (ISL) Router. The new cable will provide unified data and ethernet connectivity for future visiting vehicles. The ISS Program plans to establish two docking ports on the US On-orbit Segment compatible with the International Docking System Standard (IDSS).  In the future, the docking adapters will be installed onto the existing Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)-2 and PMA3 interfaces.  Each adapter will permanently convert a passive Androgynous Peripheral Attachment System (APAS) docking interface into a passive IDSS interface.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning: Wilmore cleaned his crew quarters in preparation for his departure on 40S later this week. Among other tasks, he cleaned/vacuumed intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors. 

