
EML (Electromagnetic Levitator) Lens switch: The crew changed the measurement mode of the EML High Speed Camera to STD mode to support the ongoing campaign. The EML is a multi-user facility designed for containerless materials processing in space. It supports research in the areas of meta-stable states and phases along with the measurement of high-accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys at high temperatures.  EML can accommodate up to 18 samples, each 5 to 8 mm in size.  Heating rates of up to 100 Kelvin per second can be achieved with a maximum temperature of 2,100°C. PCG Temperature Controller Closeout: The crew performed cleanup activities following the completion of the PCG Temperature Controller checkout, which occurred on 22-February.  Completion of these closeout activities also allows the resumption of the Marangoni investigation. The objective of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Protein Crystallization Growth (JAXA PCG) investigation is to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity. The crystals are returned to Earth to determine protein structures in detail; the structures are used to develop pharmaceutical drugs, and to explore the mystery of our lives. PK-4 (Plasma Kristall) Experiment Campaign 6:  The crew reviewed the familiarization document for the upcoming PK-4 campaign 6.  Complex plasmas contain electrons, ions, neutral gas and micro particles. When these micro particles get charged, they interact strongly with each other and can lead to structures called plasma crystals. Plasma Kristall-4 aims to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, dynamical processes, and instabilities in complex plasmas. On-Orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV) Measurements: Anne and David completed a series of anthropometric measurements. These were performed to measure their on-orbit growth prior to a series of EVAs. Next week, the crew will perform full OFVs to evaluate the EMU suit fit prior to allow for necessary adjustments prior to the EVAs. SpaceX Demo-1 Docking Preparations: The crew performed preparation activities for the upcoming Demo-1 docking. The JEM Portable Computer System (PCS) laptop was relocated to the Lab. Space Station Computers (SSCs) 12, 16, 9, and 8/5 were repositioned for various monitoring capabilities during the docking. The crew set up and checked out crew monitoring tools that are required for the docking including the Rendezvous and Proximity Operations Program (RPOP) in the Lab as well as the Cupola. 
