ISS On-Orbit Status 03/03/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew off duty
 
After breakfast, FE-2 Ivanishin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  
 
For CDR Burbank &amp; FE-6 Pettit, BCAT-6 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-6) camera checks and battery replacements have been removed from their timelines for the time being.     [BCAT-6 sample 5 images looked good, but since no phase separation was seen in the sample, it was decided to let it evolve in quiescence over the next week. At that point, the sample will be checked for phase separation.] 
 
As most every Saturday, the six crewmembers joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM.     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Anton, Anatoly &amp; Oleg completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) and the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille in the SM.
 
Oleg also did the (currently daily) inspection of the KOB2 cooling loop in the SM, checking a liquid connector on the 4SPN2 panel for coolant leaks.     [In case there were any large droplets (10-20 cm<sup>3</sup>), FE-2 was to report to TsUP-Moscow.  After the recovery of KOB2 on 3/1 by replacing a K-90 commutator (switching unit), it was tested successfully and then turned off again.  It is considered fully functional.  While TsUP-Moscow is currently monitoring the pressure, the crew is checking behind the 4SPN2 panel for leaks.  KOB2 will then be activated.]
 
In further response to the failure of the WPA (Water Processor Assembly, see below), the CDR reconfigured the equipment for transferring water from CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodinated, #1015) to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) potable water tank using a “tee” hose and a fresh MRF (Microbial Removal Filter) as gas trap.  After several hours of transfer, the CWC-I was swapped (with #2018 or 2016).  Later, Dan terminated the procedure was terminated, tore the equipment down, using Povidone iodine wipes for cleanup.
 
André Kuipers conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab locations O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes with vacuum cleaner or gray tape.
 
At ~5:30am EST, André also turned on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and started the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during yesterday’s EPO (Education Payload Operations) Optic Sphere Demo to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, FE-5 turned MPC routing off again.
 
Pettit &amp; Kuipers filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), Don’s 9<sup>th</sup>, André’s 7<sup>th</sup>.       [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
Dan &amp; Don had another time slot reserved each for making entries in their electronic Journals on the personal SSC.     [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
FE-1 Shkaplerov conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-4).     [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND leg muscle self scan in COL.  Today’s exercise called for ARED+T2, with CEVIS, ARED+T2, T2, ARED+CEVIS (VO<sub>2</sub>max), CEVIS following in the next 5 days.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.]
 
Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on Aral Sea, Lake Baikal, the Kerch Strait, Taman, Lagankskoe plateau, Krasnaya Polyana, the Volga River Delta Lipetsk, the Caspian Sea, the volcano of Santa Maria, and Allalin Glacier,
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>A 10-min. photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining HDV (Z1) camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Pacific, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop,
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
ATV3 Slip:   Launch of ATV3 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 3) will be delayed by ~2 weeks due to the need to re-enter its cargo compartment and secure (fasten down) two Half-CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) containing NASA food.  With the launch/dock slip, the ISS reboost on 3/12 will not be necessary.
 
WPA Failure:   On 3/1, pressures in the USOS WPA (Water Processor Assembly)’s catalytic reactor began to decrease unexpectedly, leading to WPA failure.  Suspected as a likely cause is a leak in the catalytic reactor.  Remedial action is expected to involve replacement of several suspect internal seals (the previous reactor failed in March 2010 due to one of these seals).  Currently ground teams are working towards an IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on 3/11 (this is still under review).  The WPA inability to process water is requiring the crew to perform a variety of water transfer operations such as yesterday and today's CWC-I transfers to the WPA Water Storage tank through the MRF which allows continued use of PWD (Potable Water Dispenser), OGA (Oxygen Generator Assembly, reduced to 22% production from 40%), and protects the upcoming WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) flush tank fill.  Among other steps, later in the week the crew will offload the Lab condensate tank (currently collecting condensate) into a silver biocide CWC for potential RS (Russian Segment) processing.  The WPA produces potable (drinkable) water by processing condensate, urine distillate, and OGA by-products.  If necessary for joint atmosphere management, the Russian Elektron can be activated earlier than Monday as SOZh is monitoring ppO2 (oxygen partial pressure oxygen).
 

