ISS On-Orbit Status 03/02/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
After breakfast, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  
 
After wakeup, FE-6 Pettit completed another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, his 26<sup>th</sup>.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
In the JAXA Kibo laboratory, CDR Burbank serviced the running BCAT-6 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-6) by replacing the BCAT-6 battery early in the morning with a fresh one and repeating the replacement about 8 hrs later.       [The NIKON D2Xs with EarthKAM software running on an SSC laptop takes automated flash photography controlled by the software, photographing Sample 5 (homogenized on 2/27) once every two hours for seven days.  Crew performs three camera battery changes and a camera check each day. The camera battery changes are scheduled to be performed approximately every 8 hours per Mike Fossum’s recommendation during past BCAT-6 activities.]
 
FE-4 Kononenko completed his 3<sup>rd</sup> session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.    [Shkaplerov stood by to assist Oleg in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes and applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit plus taking documentary photography.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]
 
In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Don Pettit closed out the equipment of the MSPR CC (Multipurpose Small Payload Rack Combustion Chamber) checkout and stowed the CC in the JPL (JEM Pressurized Logistics Segment) at loc. F2.     [Don was to minimize the relocation of CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) in JLP to ease the item tracking &amp; stowage area for the upcoming HTV3 cargo.]
 
Also for the HTV3 (H-II Transfer Vehicle 3), FE-5 Kuipers assembled and set up the HCP (HTV Control Panel) and its power &amp; data cables in the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).    [The HCP will not be installed in the Cupola.]
 
Dan Burbank configured the equipment for transferring water from CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodinated) to the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) potable water tank using a “tee” hose and an MRF (Microbial Removal Filter) as gas trap.  After several hours of transfer, the procedure was terminated, the equipment torn down, with Povidone iodine wipes used for cleanup, and the MRF disposed of as trash.
 
Afterwards, Dan re-installed installed the three PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) lock-down alignment guides on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) at Lab bay S3, engaged the snubber pins and locked safety pins to protect its ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) from external loading (dynamic disturbances).
 
In preparation for the subsequent PAO TV session, Oleg Kononenko conducted a multicasting test of the MPEG2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) television equipment, transmitting streaming video to TsUP-Moscow from the HVR-Z7E SONY camcorder via Ku-band.  Since the TV MPEG2 multicasting causes transmission outage on wireless SSCs (Station Support Computers) on board, Don Pettit earlier switched anticipated uses of wireless laptops to a wired SSC instead.
 
At ~2:50am EST, Shkaplerov, Ivanishin &amp; Kononenko joined up for a PAO TV event, downlinking greetings to Dmitry Olegovich Rogozin, Russia’s permanent representative to NATO, who was appointed on 12/23/11 by RF President Dmitry Medvedev as Vice President for the military defense industry, viz., defense contracts.    [Also present: State Secretary Vitaly Anatolievich Davydov, Head Deputy Head of the Federal Space Agency (with Vladimir Popovich currently in Canada at the HOA meeting), and Gennady Gennadievich Raikunov, General Director of TsNIIMASh Federal State Unitary Enterprise.]
 
At ~3:55am, Anton, Anatoly &amp; Oleg also downlinked messages of Happy Birthday wishes to Valentina Vladimirovna Tereshkova, the world’s first woman (and civilian) in space (Vostok 6, 6/16/1963), whose 75<sup>th</sup> birthday will be on March 6. 
 
André Kuipers continued the major job of cleaning up in the US A/L (Airlock), first consolidating EVA hardware from PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) in preparation to receive ATV3 cargo and then organizing EVA hardware in the A/L C/L (Crewlock) to reduce access times during EMU loop scrubs and decrease snag hazards for EMUs (Extravehicular Mobility Units).       [Task objectives are to relocate items to more usable locations and better utilize stowage space in A/L &amp; PMM.  Most EVA items will be out of the PMM in anticipation of ATV3 &amp; HTV3.  This activity was also to reconfigure the C/L for easier access to EMUs during loop scrubs.]
 
Working in the Kibo laboratory, Don Pettit had several hours set aside to remove and replace the failed RIC (Rack Interface Controller) in ER4 (EXPRESS Rack 4) at F5.      [The activity required demating all umbilicals from the rack’s Z Panel and UIP (Utility Interface Panel), switching all power off, disconnecting the ER4 ELC (ER Laptop Computer) and its RS-232 cable from ER4 and then rotating the rack away from the JPM wall to access the worksite.  After the RIC replacement, the original configuration was restored by “backing out” (reversing the steps).]
 
In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Dan Burbank configured the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware plus MBS (Mixing Bag System), including calibrating the PPFS software and checking instruments, and then conducted his 4<sup>th</sup> session with the VO<sub>2</sub>max (Evaluation of Maximal Oxygen Uptake &amp; Submaximal Estimates of VO<sub>2</sub>max before, during and after long-duration space station missions) assessment, integrated with Thermolab (head sensors).  After the session, Dan powered down, cleaned up &amp; partially stowed the equipment, and downloaded the data to a PCS laptop.       [The experiment VO<sub>2</sub>max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle with vibration isolation, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% &amp; 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]
 
After reviewing procedural material, André &amp; Dan jointly conducted another NASA EPO (Education Payload Operations) session, the Optic Sphere Demonstration with water in micro-G.      [Using a drink bag with straw and water to create a large sphere of water, the crewmember positioned his face behind the sphere of water, looking through it into the camera.  The demonstration is repeated with the letters "M" and "E" written on index cards.     [The Optics Sphere demo was recorded on high-definition G1 camcorder tape for later downlink via MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) for educational use.]
 
Kononenko conducted a test of the MPEG2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) multicasting television equipment, which required Don Pettit to switch any used wireless laptops to wired SSCs as during the MPEG test on 2/24), 
 
Anatoly concluded his major IFM (Inflight Maintenance) of removing old SMOK condensate lines (smennykh magistralej otkaachki kondensata) of the SOTR Thermal Control System in the SM and replacing them with new spares (last time done: August 2010).      [FE-2 today replaced remaining SMOK sections from the SK1 valve assembly to the SBK1 condensate tank.]
 
Afterwards, Ivanishin teamed up with Shkaplerov for another session with the KPT-2 payload with its BAR science instruments suite, using the Piren-B Piroendoscope and the Iva-6A Thermo-Hygrometer for measuring temperatures on structural elements of the SM and taking temperature and humidity readings of the work environment atmosphere.         [Problem area monitoring is necessary to predict shell micro-destruction rate and to develop measures to extend station life.  Data were copied to the RSE1 laptop for downlink to Earth via OCA, with photographs, and the activities were supported by ground specialist tagup as required.  Objective of the Russian KPT-2/BAR science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Piren-V is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Besides KPT-2 Piren-V, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
Afterwards, FE-1 &amp; FE-2 conducted an extensive inventory/audit of all photo &amp; video equipment in the SM, including accessories, based on the IMS (Inventory Management System) data base.  The crew took pictures of the equipment and made a list of hardware which in their opinion is not used.  The images and filled-out table were then downlinked.
 
Dan had time set aside to restow tools, hardware, and MWA (Maintenance Work Area) equipment used in his recent EPIC (Enhanced Processor &amp; Integrated Communications) upgrade of the PL-MDMs (Payload Multiplexer/Demultiplexers).
 
FE-1 continued the current round of the periodic preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems in the FGB by cleaning the TsV1 central fan 1 guard screen.
 
With its battery freshly charged overnight, FE-2 installed &amp; started the equipment of the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment at SM window #9 for another run, using it to observe the Earth surface and atmosphere at terminator crossing in two parts, with spectrometer adjustment in-between (10:25am-10:45am &amp;11:05am-11:25am EST).  Later, Anatoly dismantled the equipment again and dumped the data from Laptop 3 via the RSS1 terminal.       [By means of the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka-MV-Kosmos” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and SONY HVR-Z7 HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #9, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]
 
FE-5 conducted his weekly task of filling out his SHD (Space Headache) questionnaire which he started after Soyuz launch and continues on ISS (on an SSC/Station Support Computer) for every week after his first week in space.
 
Dan filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), his 14<sup>th</sup>.       [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
FE-1 conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Anton also took care of the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur),
 
Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Dan turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-1, FE-5), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-2, FE-4).     [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.]
 
At ~2:45am, Burbank held his the regular IMS (Inventory Management System) stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
At ~11:30am, Pettit powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 11:40am conducted a ham radio session with students at Parkside Elementary School, Atlanta, GA.
 
At 12:05pm, Don held a second ham radio session with students of the 5th Geniko Lykeio Katerinis, Katerini, Greece.
 
At ~2:35pm, the crew was scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H.
 
At ~3:05pm, Dan &amp; Dan were scheduled for a CCE (Crew Choice Event) conference with the ground.
 
Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on Kolka Glacier, Volga River Delta River, the Caspian Sea, the Aral Sea, Volcanoes Mount Etna, Stromboli, Hierro, Arenal and Poas, Allalin Glacier, and Lipetsk.</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).</li></ul> 
WRM Update:     A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (29-0008M) lists 22 CWCs (308.3 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (3 CWCs with 87.7 L, for Elektron electrolysis, all containing Wautersia bacteria, plus 1 empty bag;  2. Condensate water (2 CWCs with 9.8 L, plus 2 empty bags);  3. Iodinated water (6 CWCs with 79.9 L; also 6 expired bags with 104.3 L);  4. Waste water (1 bag with 6.4 L EMU waste water); and  5. Special fluid (1 CWC with 20.2 L, hose/pump flush).  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were B.P. Structure, Impact Crater, Libya (as ISS tracked NE over northern Africa, the crew was to look just right of track for this impact crater.  B.P. is an exposed impact crater that is 2 km in diameter and is estimated to be less than 120 million years in age.  Although small, it is somewhat distinctive because of its circular shape.  A local visual cue is an S-bend ridge near the crater), Vaduz, Liechtenstein (Capital Cities Collection: Looking just left of track for the capital city of the principality of Liechtenstein.  The city is located in a large valley on the banks of the Rhine River.  Overlapping mapping frames were suggested to obtain imagery of this capital city).  Polar Mesospheric Clouds (looking right for several minutes for these summer-pole clouds that seem to be increasing in density and appearing closer to the equator in recent years.  The Southern Hemisphere is on the tail end of the summer season, but researchers would like to see if these clouds are still visible), and Popocatepetl Volcano, Mexico (as ISS tracked NE over the Pacific Ocean towards Mexico, the crew was to look just right of track to find this volcano.  Mexico's second highest peak [17,802 feet] is this large, active volcano located 43 miles southeast of Mexico City.  Mapping frames of the volcano and flanks were requested to capture current summit glacier extent and cone geomorphology).
 

