
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD):  Wilmore performed visual inspection of NRCSD secondary latches, confirming their configuration after extension and retraction. He also took photos and downlinked to ground teams for review.  Four CubeSats were successfully deployed overnight. The last 2 CubeSats are scheduled for deploy tonight. 
Microbial Observatory:  Virts held a crew conference with the Microbial Observatory payload developer and performed surface and air sampling using various devices in multiple locations to characterize the types of microbial populations on ISS.  Each location was photographed prior to sample collection and files downlinked for review by ground teams. The samples will be returned on 40S for ground analysis.  ISS Microbial Observatory-1 will continue monitoring the types of microbes that are present on ISS. Over a 1 year period, surfaces of ISS U.S. Destiny will be wiped to collect microbes growing on the surface and air samples will be taken 4 times. After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analyses of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present to understand the microbial flora diversity and how it changes over time.
Airway Monitoring:  Cristoforetti deployed and configured equipment in the US Airlock to support Airway Monitoring activities scheduled for Friday. The primary goal of this experiment is to determine how gravity and microgravity influence the turnover of Nitric Oxide (NO) in the lungs.  During future manned missions to the Moon and to Mars, airway inflammation due to toxic dust inhalation is a risk factor. Since dust may cause airway inflammation and since such inflammation can be monitored by exhaled NO (Nitric Oxide) analysis the present study is highly relevant for astronaut health in future space programs.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status: UPA continues to process urine nominally following yesterday’s Fluids Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) Remove & Replace (R&R). 
40S Transfer Operations: Wilmore prepacked US items to be loaded into 40S. This is in preparation for 40S undock and landing next week.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Earlier today Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and performed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) diagnostics.  They then released the SPDM from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF)2, maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the SPDM away from the MBS and stowed Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT)2 in the SPDM Tool Holder Assembly (THA)).  Later today Ground Controllers will grasp RMCT1 with SPDM Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism (OTCM)2 and perform a checkout of this RMCT.  Finally the Ground Controllers will release RMCT1 and set up the SSRMS and SPDM for the start of the Pump Module (PM) Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) Swap on 06 February.

