
Fluid Shifts Chibis Measurements, Day 1: The 48S crew member performed the first of two days of operations in the Russian Segment conducting the Return minus 45 day (R-45) Fluid Shifts operations. The subject donned the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP/Chibis) device while the operator, with ground support in Moscow, assisted in the medical monitoring. Additionally, while the subject was in the LBNP and experiencing the negative pressure (pulling the fluid feetward), the Crew Medical Officer performed Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) and Ultrasound measurements. Prior to ultrasound measurements, the ISS was unable to lock onto Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System-275 (TDRSS-275) resulting in a delay to data collections. Teams estimate that 80% of required images were collected due to the communication issues and the Principle Investigators are determining if the remaining 20% needs to be collected. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes of severe and lasting physical changes to astronauts’ eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Operations: The crew repressed the JEMAL, performed a leak check, then removed the NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP). The crew then installed the Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP) on the MPEP and the JEMAL was depressed in advance of the return of Exposed Experiment Handhold Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM)-1 later this increment. The NanoRack deployer will return on SpX-10 for refurbishment and reflight. 
Manufacturing Device: Following a ground commanded print, the crew removed, photographed, labeled and stowed a 3 Dimensional (3D) printed item.  They then cleaned the extruder print nozzle to prepare for a second print.  The Manufacturing Device -Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF) enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the AMF that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. The AMF is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics. 
Microgravity Science Laboratory (MSL) Reboot: Overnight, the MSL facility experienced a reboot and went into safe mode as designed but further processing of the current Solidification along an Eutectic Path in Ternary Alloys (SETA) cartridge will not be possible.  The SETA cartridge had processed 9 out of the 92 millimeters long sample in the solidification phase of its run and cannot be re-processed after reaching this point.  The MSL team commanded a controlled cooldown of the facility per standard procedures. The facility reboot is something that has been seen in the past, and ground teams are evaluating further steps. There are currently 2 remaining cartridges on-board for processing in MSL.
Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)3 Depressurization: The crew used the Manual Pressure Equalization Valve (MPEV) Internal Sampling Adapter (ISA), Vacuum Access Jumper (VAJ), Multimeter and ISA Scopemeter Pressure Probe to depress PMA3. The initial 30 minute gross leak checked passed and an eight day fine leak check is in progress. Following these activities all items that were temp stowed to access PMA3 were re-stowed in the Node 3 Endcone.
Orbital 7 (OA-7) On-board Training (OBT): In preparation for OA-7 berth, currently planned for March 23, the USOS crew completed this OBT with support from ground teams. The crew reviewed capture procedure, mission profile overview, rendezvous crew procedures and interfaces for monitoring/commanding Cygnus. They also practiced a 30 meter approach and 2 Capture Point hold runs. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers installed the Robotic Refueling Mission (RRM) Payload on the Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP).  The SPDM then released the payload and the SSRMS with the SPDM were maneuvered to a park position.  Materials ISS Experiment (MISSE) removal from ELC is planned Friday evening. MSS performance was nominal.

