ISS On-Orbit Status 03/03/10


 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.


 
At wake-up, FE-4 Kotov did the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O2 generator which Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters tonight before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]


 
CDR Williams &amp; FE-6 Creamer continued their current week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), donning their Actiwatches, from which to log data to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor the crewmembers’ sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers sometimes wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]


 
FE-1 Suraev broke out and set up the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his sixth, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment, supported by ground specialist tagup, was then closed out and the test data downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]


 
In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), CDR Williams began his 5th (and final) Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment, preparing the two Actiwatches (after eliminating a suspect watch), electrode sites, attaching the harness and donning the Cardiopres, assisted by FE-6 Creamer as Operator.     [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist &amp; ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Jeff started the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  PGT (Pistol Grip Tool)/Makita batteries were switched as required.  The nominal exercise on the CEVIS machine includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.]


 
After ground testing last year had confirmed the NVM-2 Navigation Computer Module of the Russian ASN-M Satellite Navigation Equipment to be failed, Suraev today replaced the NVM-2 module with a spare unit, since delivered, and reconfigured the system for nominal ops.     [The NVM computers are the hardware responsible for receiving state vector signals, processing raw measurements, and providing position, velocity, and time information for visiting vehicles.  ASN-M was critically required for the docking of the European ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle).]


 
FE-5 Noguchi collected Exp-22 Week 21 water samples in the SM (Service Module) for in-flight and ground analysis, taking them from the SRV-K Hot, SRV-K Warm, and SVO-ZV taps.    [Collected were three 500 mL microbial postflight samples for return on Soyuz 20S, three 125 mL microbial in-flight samples and one 20 mL sample for in-flight silver detection (SDTO/Station Development Test Objective).]


 
Soichi also retrieved &amp; stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies, deployed by Jeff on 3/1 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.     [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]


 
FE-6 meanwhile sampled the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) water using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.    [After the approximately 2 hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.  TOCA was relocated to Node-3 on 3/1 and since successfully leak-tested.]


 
Creamer later performed the chemical testing of Soichi’s 20 mL sample using EHS C-SPE (Environmental Health System / Colorimetric Solid-Phase Extraction) analysis and the CWQMK (Colorimetric Water Quality Monitoring Kit).     [Results of an Iodine standard were downloaded, followed by the Silver standard and analysis.]


 
TJ also processed the inflight SM and PWD water samples with the WMK MCD (Water Microbiology Kit / Microbial Capture Devices) for microbial traces, and the CDB (Coliform Detection Bag) for inflight coliform indications (Magenta for Positive, Yellow for Negative).   [The activity must be conducted within 6 hrs after water collection from the PWD line.  The visual T+2 Day microbial (bacterial &amp; fungal) analysis of the “Week 21” potable water samples will be performed on 3/5.]


 
Preparatory to the periodic collection of KAV condensate water samples from the Russian SRVK-2M condensate processor scheduled tomorrow, Oleg Kotov installed a sampling container &amp; gas/liquid separator upstream of the BKO FGS gas-liquid mixture filter


 
The five crewmembers jointly conducted the back-to-back Exp-22 Toxic Spill &amp; Depressurization OBT (Onboard Training) exercises, with participation of all four Mission Control Centers (MCC-Houston, TsUP-Moscow, COL-CC/Oberpfaffenhofen, SSIPC-Tsukuba).  The exercises were reviewed during a teleconference with ground specialists at ~12:05pm EST.     [Objectives of the Toxic Spill drill:  Provide the crew with the most realistic emergency response training possible for practicing ammonia (NH3) leak response and all incorporated actions for an NH3 release in the USOS (US Segment), rehearsing communication &amp; coordination of actions between Soyuz 20S &amp; 21S crews for a USOS NH3 leak and also between crew &amp; ground necessary to perform NH3 leak response, and becoming familiar with support equipment (gas masks, ammonia respirators, ammonia detection kits) used in NH3 leak response procedures (for example: don gas masks and close Node-1 aft hatch to isolate the USOS).  Primary goal of the subsequent emergency drill: to provide proficiency training for crew response during station depressurization, which included moving through the station to simulate specific emergency response actions, e.g., closing hatches, setting valves, checking pressure checks, etc.]


 
After the successful overnight fine leak check of the Node-1-to-Node-3 vestibule, CDR Williams repressurized the vestibule and re-installed the IMV (Intermodular Ventilation) airduct.


 
Oleg Kotov worked ~4.5 hrs in the DC1 Docking Compartment performing major IFM (inflight Maintenance) on the TCS (Thermal Control System) by changing out the 52YuPAS1 replaceable unit panel (PAS) which had a failed coolant pump.    [For the extensive R&amp;R (removal &amp; replacement) and subsequent pressure testing, Oleg yesterday prepared tools and worksite plus reviewed the associated valve setup behind DC1 panels 301 &amp; 302.]


 
After installing the 5-ft ISA/VAJ (Internal Sampling Adapter / Vacuum Access Jumper) equipment at the hatch, Noguchi &amp; Creamer repressurized the PMA-3 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 3) for subsequent leak checking, leaving the ISA/VAJ setup connected for another leak check tomorrow.


 
Performing preventive maintenance on the US WHC (Waste and Hygiene Compartment), Jeff removed &amp; replaced the air hose and liquid indicator.


 
Oleg conducted the regular weekly maintenance on the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization), primarily inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices) in contingency configuration, SLD cables for fraying and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time &amp; date values.


 
Soichi initiated (later terminated) another 5-hr sampling run (the 74th) with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer) [also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware], and


 
Continuing the current round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, Suraev worked in the FGB, replacing the PS1 &amp; PS2 dust filter cartridges.


 
Timothy Creamer completed the periodic status checks and necessary maintenance of the CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5) payload.


 
As the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) continues to run nominally, producing water from urine, Noguchi completed another manual fill of the UPA WSTA (Urine Processor Assembly Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly), from a Russian EDV-U (urine collector-water container).


 
In the SM, the FE-1 did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]


 
Maxim also completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).


 
FE-5 &amp; FE-6 had their periodic PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Soichi at ~10:35am, TJ at ~11:50am EST.


 
At ~3:20am EST, Soichi held a tagup with the Japanese Flight Control Team at SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center)/Tsukuba via S-band/audio.


 
The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-6), TVIS treadmill (FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive device (CDR, FE-1, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5) and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-4).


 
METOX Update:   Analysis has confirmed that METOX (Metal Oxide) canisters #005 &amp; #007, which were regenerated with the CO2 valve in the REMOVAL instead of REGEN position, have been fully regenerated since sufficient temperature was reached long enough (and the cans were not heavily loaded with CO2).  Although there might be somewhat less airflow to the regenerator with the offnominal valve position, the device’s controller is able to monitor temperatures and time well enough to verify good METOX regeneration.  In a (probably) unrelated event, the crew found an error on the regenerator during yesterday’s termination activity, indicating that the bake-out heater had not heated up in the time expected.  Analysis is underway.


 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Mt. Toondina Impact Crater, S. Australia (this small impact [4-km in diameter] is no more than 110 million years old and lies about 150 miles to the west of northern Lake Eyre in south central Australia.  This challenging target features a light colored center surrounded by scattered vegetation.  ISS had a mid afternoon pass with fair weather expected.  With Lake Eyre well to the east, looking right of track for this target), Ascension Island, Atlantic Ocean (HMS Beagle Site: In July, 1836 the HMS Beagle visited this rugged, remote island in the Equatorial Atlantic.  As ISS approached from the SW, with no visual cues, the crew was to look carefully just left of track for this small target.  It was late-afternoon and there were few clouds), Robinson Crusoe Islands (DYNAMIC EVENT:  This tiny archipelago lies just to the west of epicenter for this past weekend’s 8.8 magnitude quake off the central coast of Chile.  A tsunami struck within minutes of the quake damaging the low-lying areas.  ISS had a mid-afternoon pass with partly cloudy conditions expected.  As the crew tracked just to the NW of the islands, they were to look right of track for detailed views of what is visible), and Iquique, Chile (HMS Beagle Site: The Beagle arrived at Iquique on July of 1835.  Darwin reported the "the town contains about a thousand inhabitants and stands on a little plain of sand at the foot of a great wall of rock ..." As of 2002 Iquique was reported to have a population of 216,419. It has one of the largest duty-free commercial port centers of South America.  Looking towards the coast for this city.  As ISS approached from the coast from the SW, the crew was to look just left of track for detailed views of this target.  They had mid-afternoon lighting under fair skies.  Although this area of Chile is well-removed from the epicenter of the recent quake, additional views along the coast may have value).


 

