
Fluid Shifts Dilution Measurements: The 48S subjects initiated their Return minus 45 (R-45) Fluid Shifts Dilution Measurements activities, beginning at wakeup the subject collected saliva, blood and urine and insert them into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) prior to ingesting a Sodium Bromide (NaBr) tracer. Throughout the day, the crew performed more urine, blood, and saliva collections, inserting those samples into MELFI as well. The crew configured for tomorrow’s Baseline Imaging in the USOS. Fluid Shifts is divided into three experiment portions – Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging with Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure). The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage. 
Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight (Energy): The crew performed Day 2 of the 11-day Energy protocol, continuing with urine collection and stowage of deployed Pulmonary Function System (PFS) equipment.  Throughout the day, the crew continued to log their food and drink consumptions as well.  The Energy investigation measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers, so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge of energy requirements is of a great importance to ensure health, good performance and the overall success of a mission, and also contributes to ensure adequate exercise load and cargo allotments for food during space flight.
Advanced Plant Experiments (APEX)-04 Photo: The crew retrieved an APEX-04 petri plate and photographed it on the Advanced Biology Research Facility (ABRS) photogrid. The picture will be downlinked for ground teams to evaluate the growth status. The APEX-04 (Epigenetic change in Arabidopsis thaliana in response to spaceflight – differential cytosine DNA methylation of plants on the ISS) experiment investigates how spaceflight can affect an organism on a molecular level without altering its outward appearance. Previous research has demonstrated that large numbers of plant genes are expressed differently in space compared to plants on Earth, which can alter how plants grow. This investigation studies the entire genome of thale cress plants grown in space, creating maps of spaceflight-specific changes in certain groups of genes. Results give new insight into plants’ molecular responses to spaceflight, which benefits efforts to grow plants in space for food and oxygen.
Pressurized Mating Adapter 3 (PMA3) Ingress: The crew ingressed PMA3. They removed the Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Center Disk Cover to provide access to the vestibule areas. They then ingressed PMA3 and removed stowage which needs to be removed prior to the PMA3 relocation.  The crew also scavenged  the Node 3 Port Forward Intermodular Ventilation (IMV) Valve. There are no spare IMV Valves on orbit currently.  Due to the PMA3 ingress and stowage relocation out of PMA3, the removal of this valve became much more feasible for access and crew time requirements. When the crew is complete with today’s PMA3 activities they will close the Node 3 Port Hatch.  Over the next few weeks the crew will continue to prepare the PMA-3 to be relocated from Node 3 Port to Node 2 Zenith for its new job as an IDA docking port for ISS. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Overnight, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to extract the Stratospheric Aerosol and Gas Experiment (SAGE) Instrument Panel (IP) from the SpX-10 Dragon Trunk.  They then maneuvered the SPDM and SSRMS to install the SAGE IP on the SPDM Enhanced Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Temporary Platform (EOTP).  Finally the Robotics Ground Controllers rotated the SPDM EOTP and reconfigured the SPDM for the extraction of the SAGE Nadir Viewing Platform (NVP) from the Dragon Trunk.  This afternoon, they extracted the Stratospheric Aerosol and Gas Experiment (SAGE) Nadir Viewing Platform (NVP) from the SpX-10 Dragon Trunk.  They then maneuvered the SPDM and SSRMS to remove the Optical Payload for Lasercomm Science (OPALS) from the SPDM EOTP.  Later today, SSRMS & SPDM will install OPALS into the Dragon trunk.  MSS performance was nominal..  

