
Plant Gravity Perception (PGP): Today the crew removed the Plant Gravity Perception seed cassettes from Experiment Containers (ECs) on the two European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) rotors and stowed them in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). They also replaced the ECs on the rotors with ECs for the next Plant Gravity Perception experiment run. For this investigation, normal and mutated forms of thale cress, a model research plant, are germinated to support the study of the plants’ gravity and light perception. Results provide insight into the plants’ adaptation to a microgravity environment and supports efforts to grow plants for food on future space missions. 
Veg-03:  The crew took photographs to document plant growth for the VEG-03 investigation.  Photos of the plants are taken about every 3 days.  The crew also watered the plants. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and planting pillows. Future long duration space missions, including those to Mars, will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets. 
Earth Imagery from ISS Target (EIISS):  Today the crew captured images of the Australian desert. EIISS supports creation of videos showcasing Earth views taken from space. The videos are taken with high resolution cameras on the ISS.  The pictures are also integrated into videos for screensavers for public enjoyment, exploration, and engagement.
Node 3 Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Verification Gas Assembly (VGA) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew replaced the MCA VGA, a life-limited component requiring periodic replacement. The MCA is a mass spectrometer based system that measures the major atmospheric constituents on board the ISS. Following the maintenance, the MCA was pumped down to vacuum and the crew and ground teams reconfigured the MCA for nominal operations. 
Systems Operations Data File (SODF) Emergency Book Replacement:  Today the crew replaced the hard copy Emergency-1c books which included updated Ammonia (NH3) response procedures.  Tomorrow the crew will review the new procedures during an On-Board Training (OBT) session.
Latching End Effectors A (LEE A) Survey – Yesterday, ground teams performed an Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) walkoff to Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture -4 (PDGF-4) and performed a high definition camera survey of the LEE A snare cables.  Once the survey had been completed, they performed a checkout of the LEE A mechanisms. MSS performance was nominal during yesterday’s activities.
Latching End Effectors B (LEE B) Survey – Ground teams are currently performing a SSRMS walkoff to MBS PDGF-3 and will perform a LEE B survey with high definition cameras later today. 
Channel 1A Lithium-Ion Battery Capacity Test – Yesterday, ground teams began a capacity test on the power channel 1A Li-Ion batteries.  During this three-day capacity test, each of the three Li-Ion batteries in channel 1A will be discharged until the first cell is less than or equal to 3.0 V to acquire capacity data. This data provides insight into the actual battery amp hours available and is part of nominal maintenance.

