
New Status:
Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Maintenance: Over the weekend, Commander (CDR) Ford and Flight Engineer (FE) – 6 Marshburn completed maintenance on the Node 3 (N3) CDRA and reinstalled it in the Atmosphere Revitalization 2 (AR2) rack in N3.  N3 CDRA was activated on Saturday and has accumulated over 36 hrs of operation using the new Desiccant/Sorbet beds delivered on SpaceX-2.  This morning Marshburn replaced a degraded Desiccant / Sorbent bed in the Lab CDRA with the healthier of the 2 beds removed from N3 CDRA last week. Currently both the Lab and the N3 CDRA are running as checkouts continue.  The bed removed from the N3 CDRA and the one removed today from the Lab CDRA will be returned to the ground on SpaceX-2 (SpX-2) for refurbishment.
SpX-2 Cargo Operations:  FE-5 Hadfield completed all currently available packing of hardware for return on SpX-2 over the weekend.  Not all of the hardware is ready for packing, as it includes experiment hardware which is currently in use.  SpX-2 cargo return operations are ahead of schedule.
Human Research Facility (HRF) Sample Blood Draw:  Ford completed his final blood draw before return to earth. He configured and spun the blood samples in the Vascular Refrigerated Centrifuge, then inserted the samples in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return and analysis.
Soyuz (Sz) 32 (32S) Preparations for Return: Today a 32S thruster test was successfully completed. Crewmembers CDR Ford, FE-1 Novitskiv, and FE-2 Tarelkin are returning on 32S, and over the weekend packed return cargo for their Soyuz vehicle.   The 32S crew also practiced a nominal Soyuz descent On-Board Training (OBT) session.  32S is planned to undock on Thursday 3/14/13 at 7:30 PM CDT, with landing scheduled for 10:57 pm CDT. 33 Soyuz crewmembers, Romanenko, Hadfield and Marshburn, completed a post-32S undock emergency roles and responsibilities review.
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixture 3 (CSLM-3) Experiment:  Hadfield completed another CSLM sample run, changed out the Sample Processing Units (SPUs), and initiated the next run. This completes the 2nd of 6 runs planned during the SpX-2 docked mission, after which the samples will be returned to the ground.  CSLM-3 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount of tin branch-like (dendrite) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo Experiment: Ford reviewed procedures and uploaded files in preparation for tomorrow’s planned run of this experiment. The experiment investigates the ability to create a three-dimensional model of an unknown object in space using only one or two small satellites. The experiment uses passive, visual cameras as the primary sensors to construct the model. These cameras have the advantage of being small and lightweight, as compared to current systems which rely on heavy and power-hungry laser or radio frequency (RF) systems.

Biological Research In Canisters-17: Marshburn unpacked and performed actuation of 2 BRIC canisters.  BRIC supports a variety of plant growth investigations which focus on the growth and development of cell cultures in microgravity. Specimens are preserved with a chemical fixative and returned to the ground for post-flight evaluation.
Microflow Experiment:  Hadfield completed the 2nd of 2 planned sessions of this experiment by removing a sample cartridge from cold stowage, installing it in the cytometer and processing the 6 samples in the cartridge.  He then downlinked the data and disposed of the samples. The Microflow 1 technology demonstration provides the first performance test of a miniaturized flow cytometer in the microgravity environment of the ISS. Flow cytometry is a technique that focuses fluids (blood or other body fluids) into a controlled stream that enables researchers to quantify the components and monitor physiological and cellular activity. The goal of this testing in microgravity is the development of a smaller and safer operational instrument that may be certified for real-time medical care and monitoring during space flight.

Previous Status (3/08/13)
Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Maintenance:  Today Commander (CDR) Ford and Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn removed the Node 3 (N3) CDRA from the Atmosphere Revitalization 2 (AR2) rack and moved it into the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM), which will be the primary worksite for the next 3 days.  The goal is to remove and replace the current N3 CDRA Desiccant/Sorbent Beds with 2 new ones delivered by SpX-2.  Today the crew removed some ducts, associated selector valves, and a pump filter.  Maintenance will continue tomorrow with the removal of more components to gain eventual access to the 2 Desiccant/Sorbent beds.
Robonaut Experiment:  FE-5 Hadfield deployed and attached Robonaut to the taskboard for commanded operations from the Ground. The purpose of Robonaut is to demonstrate a dexterous robot can launch and operate in a space vehicle, manipulate mechanisms in a microgravity environment, operate for an extended duration within the space environment, assist with tasks, and eventually interact with the crewmembers.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-C1:  Hadfield completed the third and final run of this BCAT sample. The BCAT-C1 experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions will have the unique property that the particles will phase separate (like oil and water) and the particles will self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light (like opal). Photographing these samples in microgravity allow the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. This study will allow the development of new insights into this important material process.

Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixtures – 3 (CSLM-3) Experiment:  FE 5 Hadfield continued the CSLM-3 experiment operations. The goal is to complete this set of samples, so they can be returned on SpX-2 on March 25.  The experiment is proceeding as planned.  Today he will terminate vacuum draw on the sample and start the processing of the sample.  The sample will be heated to a liquid state to allow the coarsening to occur.  CSLM-3 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount of tin branch-like (dendrite) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.

