
Crew-7 Splashdown: At 4:47 AM CDT, Crew Dragon Endurance splashed down near Pensacola, Florida, returning NASA astronaut Jasmin Moghbeli, ESA astronaut Andreas Mogensen, JAXA astronaut Satoshi Furukawa, and Roscosmos cosmonaut Konstantin Borisov safely. This concludes the Crew-7 mission.
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device-Kinematics (ARED-K): The supporting camera systems and other hardware was set up, and the crew performed an ARED-K science session. Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, aerobic rowing, and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill there is no means of ambulating, or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking; therefore, the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of no treadmill usage during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance, which is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (CIR/SoFIE):  The crew performed a second day of activities to reconfigure CIR/SoFIE from Growth and Extinction Limit (GEL) to Material Ignition and Suppression Test (MIST) experiment support. An additional activity will be required to fully complete the reconfiguration and bring the rack to an operational state. SoFIE-GEL studied burning in microgravity by measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. SoFIE MIST examines thermally assisted burning in microgravity, by varying parameters including air flow speed, oxygen concentration, pressure, and level of external radiation.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): In support of the CIPHER suite of investigations, the crew performed Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT-2) testing, Electroretinography (ERG), and an Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) exercise session.CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Manufacturing of Semiconductors and Thin-Film Integrated Coatings (MSTIC): The crew attempted to install the vacuum hose for MSTIC but determined the hose was too short in the current configuration. The ground team is discussing a forward plan. MSTIC examines the effects of microgravity on deposited thin films used in semiconductor manufacturing. Manufacturing these films in microgravity may improve their quality and reduce the materials, equipment, and labor required. The investigation also explores differences in the microstructure of thin films produced in microgravity and on the ground.
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Hard Upper Torso (HUT) On-Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew performed an on-orbit swap of the HUT on EMU 3013 with a standalone spare in order to exchange the HUT from an Extra-Large to a Large; however, interference was encountered while installing the Helmet. This portion of the activity will be continued at a later date. The EMU is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth’s orbit.
Countermeasures Systems (CMS) Treadmill 2 (T2) Heart Rate Monitor (HRM) Troubleshooting: The crew attempted to troubleshoot and replace the HRM Bluetooth Transmitter, HRM Receiver, and HRM Receiver Jumper Cable. The T2 HRM system uses a magnetic pulse to record and display the crew’s heart rate. After deploying the T2 HRM Bluetooth Transmitter, Engineering data showed clean heart rate data, but on December 17th, 2023, the crew reported the T2 HRM Bluetooth Transmitter was not working. The Engineering team requested the crew troubleshoot the T2 noisy HRM signal since quality heart rate data is a critical data point used to ensure the crew’s health is maintained. T2 is the second ISS treadmill intended for use by USOS crewmembers during extended visits to the ISS. T2 was designed to minimize the transfer of dynamic forces caused by using the treadmill to preserve the microgravity environment of the ISS as well as minimize the loads imparted on the structure.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
