
Rodent Research (RR) Habitat Stow: Following Tuesday’s completion of operations, today the crew stowed the RR habitats.  The habitats were cleaned and sealed prior to their next use, planned for RR-5 scheduled for SpX-11. 
Advanced Plant Experiments (APEX)-04 Harvest: The crew removed the APEX-04 petri plate from the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) facility and harvested the plants. The crew photographed the plants within the petri plate on the Advanced Biology Research Facility (ABRS) photogrid then all plants were inserted into a single Kennedy Space Center (KSC) Fixation Tube (KFT) with RNAlater. The APEX-04 (Epigenetic change in Arabidopsis thaliana in response to spaceflight – differential cytosine DNA methylation of plants on the ISS) experiment investigates how spaceflight can affect an organism on a molecular level without altering its outward appearance. Previous research has demonstrated that large numbers of plant genes are expressed differently in space compared to plants on Earth, which can alter how plants grow. This investigation studies the entire genome of thale cress plants grown in space, creating maps of spaceflight-specific changes in certain groups of genes. Results give new insight into plants’ molecular responses to spaceflight, which benefits efforts to grow plants in space for food and oxygen.
TangoLab Card Removal and Cold/Conditioned Stowage Transfer: The crew removed several experiments from the TangoLab Facility and then stowed them in the returning General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerators (GLACIERs).  Additionally, the crew transferred conditioned stowage samples from Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) to the GLACIERs and Polar facilities that will be returning on SpX-10.  
Aquapad Analysis: The crew performed the analysis for the water samples taken on Tuesday. Using the EveryWear application, the crew captured images of the Aquapad Containment Boxes which will be downlinked for analysis.  After image capture, the Aquapad Containment Boxes were packed for SpX-10 return. Aquapad is a new approach developed by France’s CNES space agency: paper impregnated with powdered growth medium creates a 3D petri dish. When water is added, the microbes form colored spots revealing their locations. Using a tablet computer application the crew will photograph the dots to calculate precisely how many bacteria are present.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Suit Maintenance: The crew performed routine maintenance tasks on EMU 3006 and EMU 3008 including a water recharge, loop scrub, a post-loop scrub water sample and an EMU conductivity test. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Overnight, the Robotics Ground Controllers stowed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture #2 (PDGF2).  After Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) had released SPDM, SSRMS Latching End Effector (LEE) diagnostics and checkouts as well as SSRMS Joint Diagnostics were performed on the prime and redundant strings. Finally, SSRMS grappled the SpX-10 Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) in preparation of the SpX-10 release.  MSS performance was nominal. 
Tracking and Data Relay Satellite (TDRS) 275 Failure:  White Sands Facility reported a timeout of the 275 satellite.  Specialist are working the issue and expect a return to service no earlier than 18:30 GMT. 
Depress Pump Test:  Today the crew turned on the airlock depress pump for 44 minutes in order to verify proper Node 3 to Airlock Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) cooling. This test was performed because when the Airlock cooling was switched from Lab MTL to Node 3 MTL the team realized the flow is in reverse.  Temperatures during the test confirmed better cooling to the depress pump and downstream hardware than predicted.

