
DOSIS-3D: The crew retrieved the DOSIS-3D Passive Detector Pouch (PDP) from the Dragon vehicle and installed the ten passive detector packs and one triple detector pack at appropriate locations. This experiment uses active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS and provides documentation of the actual nature and distribution of the radiation fields. A concise three dimensional dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS will be developed based on this data and data from JAXA and NASA monitoring devices.
Engineered Heart Tissue/FE8: Using the Life Science Glovebox, the crew performed the cell culture media change for the Engineered Heart Tissue chambers. A Human induced Pluripotent Stem Cell (iPSC)-based 3D Microphysiological System for Modeling Cardiac Dysfunction in Microgravity (Engineered Heart Tissues) assesses human cardiac function in microgravity. It uses 3D cultured cardiac muscle tissue that mimics the architecture and function of adult human cardiac muscle. A magnet-based sensor placed underneath the tissue culture chamber allows real-time, non-destructive analysis of the functional performance and maturation of the tissues in space, which is compared with those cultured on Earth.
Medium Temp PCG: The crew retrieved the JAXA Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) container, started the investigation, then stowed it in Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST2).  The high quality protein crystal growth experiment at moderate temperature (JAXA MT PCG) is aimed at the growth of crystals of biological macromolecules by the counter-diffusion technique or permeation method. The main scientific objective of the JAXA Moderate Temp PCG experiment is to make high quality protein crystals in the microgravity environment at moderate temperature.
Nanoracks Mod-51: The crew initiated the sub investigations contained within the Mod-51. These sub experiments are the Vitamin-C Flask with syringe, Waxworm flask, Adipic acid and Venom flex plates, Yeast and amylase mixture tubes, and Flask with Flatworms.  Inspection and/or activation of the experiments were nominal and the hardware was stowed.  Nanoracks Mod-51 is an aluminum module with a Velcro lid that can accommodate various sub-experiments.
OsteoOmics-2: The crew completed media exchange for Biocell habitat 4. During the activity, they noted only 3 of the biocells were free of contamination. The media was exchanged on the 3 healthy Biocells and the 3 Biocells with contamination were bagged and frozen for later ground analysis. Cause of the contamination is under discussion.  Millions of Americans experience bone loss which results from disease or the reduced effects of gravity that can occur in bed-ridden patients. OsteoOmics tests whether magnetic levitation accurately simulates the free-fall conditions of microgravity by comparing genetic expression osteoblastic cells, a type of bone cell, levitated in a high-field superconducting magnet with cells flown in low-Earth orbit. This information helps scientists determine the molecular and metabolic changes that take place in magnetic levitation and real microgravity.
PCG-10:  The crew retrieved the PCG-10 hardware from its temporary ambient stow location and placed it in the permanent stow location. Microgravity Crystallization of Glycogen Synthase-Glycogenin Protein Complex (CASIS PCG 10) crystallizes human glycogen synthase proteins on the space station. These include enzymes critical for glycogen synthesis in the liver and those present in muscle. The lack of convection in microgravity can result in higher quality crystals that contribute to better understanding of a protein’s structure and support development of more effective medications with fewer side effects. 
Systems
Latching End Effector (LEE) A Snare Survey: Following yesterday’s Space Station Remote Manipulator stem (SSRMS double walkoff, today the LEE A Snare survey was completed. The Robotics team will now unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous manipulator (SPDM) and Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) in preparation for tomorrow’s Material International Space Station Experiment (MISSE) operations.

