
SBC (Spaceborne Computer) Inverter Replacement: Today the crew replaced the failed Spaceborne Computer-1 power inverter. The inverter was subsequently powered up and showed all green lights.  Spaceborne Computer’s goal is to run a yearlong experiment of high performance commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) computer systems on the ISS. During high radiation events, they intend to verify if the systems can still operate correctly by lowering their power, and therefore, speed. This research helps scientists identify ways of using software to protect ISS computers without expensive, time-consuming or bulky protective shielding.
Veg-03H Wick Open: As part of the early growth cycle of the plants, the crew performed the wick opening activity. The plant pillows in the Veg-03H investigation contain Wasabi Mustard Green and Extra Dwarf Pok Choi seeds. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03H uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate Extra Dwarf Pak Choi and Wasabi mustard, which are harvested on-orbit.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub: The crew performed ionic and particulate filtration scrubbing and biocidal maintenance on EMUs 3003 and 3008 water cooling loops. Water samples and conductivity readings were also taken from the cooling loops.
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Firmware Update: The crew installed the C2V2 contingency software load cable to both comm units in order to allow loading of Firmware Revision 3 to each unit. Ground teams proceeded with a nominal firmware load on both units. This software update corrects several minor issues identified during on-orbit operations, including false indications of stale transceiver telemetry, Very High Data Rate (VHDR) signal acquisition, and User Datagram Protocol (UDP) port assignment.

