ISS On-Orbit Status 03/16/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
After breakfast, FE-4 Oleg Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) Caution &amp; Warning panel (PSS) as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
CDR Dan Burbank had most of his workday (~7 hrs) dedicated to one part of major ISS outfitting: upgrading the ISS Ku-band system by routing &amp; installing cabling for the HRCS (High Rate Communication System).  Today’s work focused on the routing of four cables in the US Lab Forward Endcone.       [For the necessary rotations of the Lab D1 rack, FE-6 Pettit lent assistance; also required was temporarily clearing out stowage at loc. P1 (Robonaut &amp; CWCs), removing a smoke detector and disconnecting some JSL (Joint Station LAN) cables.  Four cables had to be installed today: one Ethernet cable from the Ku-CU (Ku-band Comm Unit) to the JSL, one AV-3 power jumper for the Ku-CU2, and two MDM (Multiplexer/Demultiplexer) 1553 data cable bundles.  Cable routing in the Lab Aft Endcone has already been completed (2/1/12).  Three more installation &amp; cabling tasks will be scheduled at future dates.  When fully installed and operational, HRCS will provide substantially faster uplink &amp; downlink speeds, improved bandwidth, two extra S/G (Space/Ground) voice loops, two extra video downlink channels, and contingency Ku Commanding capability.  It will also allow additional data to be downlinked from the P/L (Payload) and C&amp;C (Command &amp; Control) MDMs through Ku-band using the MDM Ethernet cables routed by the crew during the EPIC (Enhanced Processor &amp; Integrated Communications) work completed earlier in the Increment.  This new functionality will be achieved through three major upgrades: Improved APS (Automated Payload Switch) installations (already completed during Increment 28), improved PEHG (Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway) installations, and the Ku-CU installations.  The PEHG and Ku-CU installations are not scheduled until at least October 2012.  To prepare for their arrival, a number of cable routing and other tasks are required and are being done early, today’s one being one of them.]
 
FE-6 Pettit inspected the BCAT-6 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-6) payload, using the LED (light-emitting diode) Mini-MagLite for observation and backlit photography.      [The BCAT-6 sample module has been undisturbed for a while (since 3/3), and payload developers are hoping that granularity in the Procter &amp; Gamble Sample 1 and phase separation in the Harvard Sample 5 can be seen/captured.]
 
FE-1 Shkaplerov continued the current round of the periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today spending ~2.5 hrs in the SM to inspect &amp; clean “Group B2” ventilator fans &amp; grilles.
 
Later, FE-1 collected the periodic air samples in the RS, using a Russian AK-1M absorber in the SM &amp; FGB for air &amp; Freon as well as IPD-CO Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the SM cabin air for CO (Carbon Monoxide).
 
After preparing the SM PrK (Transfer Tunnel) for a close inspection of the KOB2 (SM internal thermal loop 2), FE-2 Ivanishin performed a checkout of KOB2 with its hoses, connections, PK1, PK2, PK3 valve panel and PKR1, PKR2, PKR3, PKR4 compensator panel, looking for possible leaks and assessing the amount air contained in the coolant.  The 3-hr activity was supported by ground specialist tagup.
 
FE-4 Kononenko meanwhile spent ~2 hrs with the KPT-2 payload and its BAR science instruments suite, using the AU-1 (Ultrasound Analyzer 1) to measure background noise in the window areas of SM, PkhO (Transfer Compartment), PrK and MRM2 Poisk.  AU-1 can detect and locate tiny leaks by listening for “hissing” noise.  [KPT-2 monitors problem areas, necessary to predict shell micro-destruction rate and to develop measures to extend station life.  Data are copied to the RSE1 laptop for downlink to Earth via OCA, with photographs, and the activities are supported by ground specialist tagup as required.  Objective of the Russian KPT-2/BAR science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Piren-V is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Besides KPT-2 Piren-V, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
FE-5 Kuipers conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.      [The current card (29-0008N) lists 28 CWCs (368.35 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (2 CWCs with 64.7 L, for Elektron electrolysis, all containing Wautersia bacteria;  2. Condensate water (5 CWCs with 74.8 L, plus 2 empty bags);  3. Iodinated water (9 CWCs with 80.45 L plus 1 empty bag; also 7 expired bags with 121.8 L);  4. Waste water (1 bag with 6.4 L EMU waste water); and  5. Special fluid (1 CWC with 20.2 L, hose/pump flush). Also one leaky CWC (#1024) with 8.5L).  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
Afterwards, André had another 2h 45m for the third part of cleaning up the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) “corridor”.      [The task concerns the relocation of some hardware from PMM rack fronts to PMM lockers/bays or other USOS (US Segment), organizing empty CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) and restowing hardware into the PMM endcone.  It is estimated to require ~5 hrs total.] 
 
In the US A/L (Airlock), FE-6 Pettit checked out its PCS (Portable Computer System) laptop to see whether the correct serial cable (RS232 Y-cable #SED39124826-307) is connected to it.  If not, Don was to disconnect it and report to MCC-H.
 
Moving then to the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Pettit performed GFI (Ground Fault Interrupt) tests on twelve 120V DC outlets to verify their integrity.      [The tests involved outlets J01, J02, J03 on each of the four SUPs (Standard Utility Panels).  GFIs are performed by ground fault interrupters which protect from electrical shock by interrupting a household circuit when there is a difference in the currents in the “hot” and neutral wires.  Such a difference indicates that an abnormal diversion of current from the "hot" wire is occurring, as may be the case when a person has come into contact with the "hot" wire and is being shocked.  When a circuit is functioning normally, all the return current from an appliance flows through the neutral wire, so the presence of a difference between "hot" and neutral currents represents a malfunction which in some circumstances could produce a dangerous or even lethal shock hazard.  In US households, GFIs are required by the electrical code for receptacles in bathrooms, some kitchen receptacles, some outside receptacles, and receptacles near swimming pools.  The horror story scenarios which led to these code requirements are things like dropping a hair dryer or a portable radio into a bathtub with a person, causing electrocution.]
 
Don Pettit also concluded his 3<sup>rd</sup> (FD75) ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity (~9:50am EDT), then powered on the laptop and downloaded the data from the two Actiwatch Spectrums, copied the data from the 2 HM2 HiFi CF Cards to the HRF PC and downloaded Cardiopres data.         [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres/BP is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.]
 
Kuipers successfully located two missing ISSAC (ISS Agricultural Camera) installation DVDs in COL, stowing them for future use in the CD Library (Slot 61).
 
Don Pettit completed his 3<sup>rd</sup> session with the MedOps psychological evaluation experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.       [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]
 
Going through stowage bags in the MRM1 Rassvet module, Anatoly Ivanishin continued his audit/search of specific components of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system (begun on 3/6).  Purpose: to set up for quick, real-time repair of the TA968MA monoblock unit of the BITS PTsB Central Processor Subsystem in case of its hard failure.
 
Anton Shkaplerov completed a 30-min. session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining SONY HDV-Z7E camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the Central-Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.
 
André and Don each undertook the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh their CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on a review of all topics.  At the end, FE-5 &amp; FE-6 each completed a self-assessment questionnaire.  Answers were provided at test conclusion.        [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]
 
Pettit &amp; Kuipers also completed the (approx.) monthly O-OHA (On-Orbit Hearing Assessment) test, their 3<sup>rd</sup>, a 30-min NASA environmental health systems examination to assess the efficacy of acoustic countermeasures, using a special software application on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.        [The O-OHA audiography test involves minimum audibility measurements for each ear over a wide range of frequencies (0.25-10 kHz) and sound pressure levels, with the crewmembers using individual-specific Prophonics earphones, new Bose ANC headsets (delivered on 30P) and the SLM (sound level meter).  To conduct the testing, the experimenter is supported by special EarQ software on the MEC, featuring an up/down-arrow-operated slider for each test frequency that the crewmember moves to the lowest sound pressure level at which the tone can still be heard.  The baseline test is required not later than about Flight Day 14 for each new Expedition and is then generally performed once per month.  Note: There has been temporary hearing deficits documented on some U.S. and Russian crewmembers, all of which recovered to pre-mission levels.]
 
Kononenko performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Oleg also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur)
 
André filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), his 9<sup>th</sup>.       [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
FE-5 also conducted his weekly task of filling out his SHD (Space Headache) questionnaire which he started after Soyuz launch and continues on ISS (on an SSC/Station Support Computer) for every week after his first week in space.
 
Later, André serviced the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) workout machine, performing periodic maintenance by evacuating its cylinder flywheels to reestablish proper vacuum condition &amp; sensor calibration.
 
At ~8:55am EDT, Kuipers turned on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and started the Ku-band data flow of video/data recorded during his preceding T2 Treadmill Kinematic session to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about one hour, André turned MPC routing off again.
 
Anton, Anatoly &amp; Oleg again had an hour set aside for recording high-resolution video with the SONY HVR-Z7E to be used in a joint project of Roskosmos TV Studio with Karusel (Carousel) TV Channel for children ages 8 to 12 years, the “It’s Time to go to space!” program, which has a segment where Russian cosmonauts are discussing their work &amp;, answer viewers’ questions.  The footage was then to be downlinked to TsUP-Moscow.
 
At ~4:15am EDT, Burbank, Ivanishin, Shkaplerov, Kuipers, Kononenko &amp; Pettit held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
At ~5:55am, Don Pettit powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 6:05am conducted a ham radio session with students at Middenschool de Regenboog Bree, Bree, Belgium.
 
At ~7:05am, André performed the weekly ESA crew conference via phone with COL-CC at Oberpfaffenhofen/Germany. 
 
At ~7:30am, Anton &amp; Anatoly linked up with TsUP-Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
At ~3:10pm, the crew was scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).      [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND leg muscle self scan in COL.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.]

Before Presleep, the CDR will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Dan turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were �C
<?if !supportLists?>・        <?endif?>A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digit<a name="_GoBack"></a>al camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on the Caspian Sea, Allalin Glacier, Volga River delta, and the volcanoes Stromboli, Mount Etna, Hierro and Cleveland,
<?if !supportLists?>・        <?endif?>A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and
<?if !supportLists?>・        <?endif?>More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
PCS Reboots:  Starting today, MCC-Houston will perform weekly PCS laptops every Friday for the next 8 weeks, in order to gather further data on PCS lockups.  The crew will be informed when reboots begin, which will take about an hour. 
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Brussels, Belgium (Capital Cities Collection:  ISS had a late morning nadir pass today with fair weather for this capital city target.  Brussels has a population of nearly 2 million is located in central Belgium about 70 miles inland from the North Sea.  As ISS tracked ENE and inland at this time, the crew was to look nadir for this major city), Ries Impact Crater, Germany (Terrestrial Impact Craters: As ISS tracked SE over Western Europe, the crew aimed right of track for the Ries Impact Crater.  This is a highly eroded crater and covered with agriculture, so it is more difficult to see.  Overlapping mapping frames of the crater were recommended to obtain imagery of this challenging crater site), Bratislava, Slovakia (Capital Cities Collection: As ISS tracked SE, the crew was to look nadir for this capital city of Slovakia.  Bratislava is the country's largest city with a population of 429,000.  The city is located in southwestern Slovakia on both banks of the Danube River.  It also borders the countries of Austria and Hungary), Monaco, Monaco (Capital Cities Collection: ISS had an early afternoon pass with fair weather expected over the capital city of this small country.  As the crew tracked SE over France, they were to shoot left of track on the coastline for the capital city of Monaco, trying to capture the entire city with a long lens shot), and Lake Nasser, Toshka Lakes, Egypt (Human Impacts: Looking right of track for these lakes on and near the Nile River.  The Toshka Lakes formed in the late 1990's when record high water in the Nile River and Lake Nasser spilled out into desert depressions to the west.  Since then the lakes have persisted, but continue to slowly dry up.  The crew was asked to update the CEO monitoring record of this event with context views of the lakes).
 

