
Medical Proteomics: The crew performed a blood collection in support of the JAXA Medical Proteomics investigation which evaluates changes of proteins in blood serum, bone and skeletal muscles after space flight, and also supports identification of osteopenia-related proteins. By combining research results for space mice, astronauts and ground patients, proteins related to osteopenia can be identified using the latest proteome analysis technique. It is anticipated that the use of the marker proteins related to osteopenia will be of benefit in the future for assessing the health of astronauts as well as osteoporosis patients on ground.
RADI-N2 (Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons): The crew deployed 6 detectors in the NOD3F3 Rack location, one detector in the crew member sleeping area and one detector in pouch to be worn by the crew. The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight. It has been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Vection: The crew deployed the Vection support hardware (including the Free-float restraint system), performed the experiment sessions, then stowed the hardware.  The experiment sessions are broken into three tasks consisting of Orientation Perception, Relative Height (Motion Processing), and Depth Perception (Vection).  The objective of The Effect of Long Duration Hypogravity on the Perception of Self-Motion (Vection) study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment; how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed the following activities in preparation for this Friday’s scheduled EVA:

Charged 2 Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Li-Ion batteries
Tool config
Procedures review
Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) review
EMU resize/relocation
EMU Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-Board Training (OBT)
Procedures review

Overnight, two of the old Nickel Hydride (NiH2) batteries were robotically removed from the Integrated Equipment Assembly (IEA) slots 1 and 3. One was installed to the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) temporary platform (side 3) and the second was installed into one of the External Pallet’s three open slots.  The first Lithium Ion (Li-Ion) battery has been removed from the External Pallet (EP) and installed into IEA 4A1A slot 3. Prior to the EVA on Friday, a total of four NiH2 batteries will be removed and three Li-ion batteries that arrived on HTV-7 will be installed on the 4A IEA.

