
Rodent Research-4: Over the weekend and continuing today, the crew performed Rodent Research operations, in coordination with ground specialists, collecting samples and stowing them in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on SpX-10.  The Tissue Regeneration-Bone Defect (RR-4) investigation studies what prevents vertebrates such as rodents and humans from regrowing lost bone and tissue and how the microgravity extraterrestrial condition impacts the process. Results could lead to tissue regeneration efforts in space and a better understanding of limitations of limb regrowth at wound sites.
Energy Requirements for Long-Term Space Flight (Energy): The crew concluded their 11-day Energy session on Saturday with both the subject and the control collecting urine and water samples. The subject doffed the arm band on Saturday and downlinked the data today.  The Energy investigation measures adaptations in the components of total energy expenditure of crewmembers so that an equation to determine the energy requirements of crewmembers during space flight may be derived. Such knowledge of energy requirements will ensure health, good performance and the overall success of a mission and also helps in planning exercise load and cargo allotments for food during space flight.                                           
Auxin Transport: On Saturday and Sunday, the crew executed Days 5 and 6 of the Auxin Transport Experiment Run 4.  On Day 5 the crew performed Sample Fixation by harvesting plants and inserting them into Chemical Fixation Bags. On Day 6, the Chemical Fixation Bags were stowed in MELFI for return on SpX-10. Auxin Transport is a JAXA sponsored study to clarify the role of the plant hormone auxin under microgravity conditions.  Specialists hope to collect gene expression data, including levels and redistribution of the proteins for auto-morphogensis (differentiation of tissues and subsequent growth without an introduced stimulus) using corn plants as the plant organism model for Auxin Transport 4.
Exposed Experiment Handhold Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) Exchange: Ground controllers removed ExHAM-1 from the JEM Exposed Facility (JEF) Platform and installed it on the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table. The crew removed the ExHAM and installed ExHAM-2 on the Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP).  The Slide Table was retracted back into the airlock.  The JEMAL will  be depressed prior to ground teams installing ExHAM-2 on the JEF.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS): Friday evening, Robotics Ground Controllers temporarily removed a spare Direct Current Switching Unit (DCSU) on the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Logistics Carrier 2 (ELC2) Site 2 to provide access to the Materials International Space Station Experiment (MISSE). To do so Ground Controllers had to perform an offset approach due to unexpected DCSU Multi-Layer Insulation (MLI) interference. The MISSE Payload was then removed from ELC2 Site 3.  The MISSE will be stowed in the SpX-10 Trunk later today.  Saturday, Robotics Ground Controllers translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite #2 (WS2) to WS6 and walked off Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF)1 onto Node2 PDGF.  MSS performance was nominal this weekend.

