ISS On-Orbit Status 03/12/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – crew rest day.
 
The crew was given 30 min more sleeptime this morning, along with kudos: “It’s been a busy few weeks, thanks for all of your hard work. Enjoy your weekend, you’ve earned it!”
 
CDR Scott Kelly continued his current week-long activity with the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Scott’s 9<sup>th</sup> session, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor their sleep/wake patterns and light exposure during a SLEEP session, US crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
Supported by ground specialists at TsUP-Moscow via S-band, FE-1 Kaleri worked on the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> (oxygen) generator, pressurizing its buffer volume and configuring valves for start-up.  Afterwards, Elektron was activated, and Alex monitored the activation operation by checking the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.      [Temperature is checked twice, about 3-4 minutes apart, with the MultiMeter with temperature probe.  The standard manual check is required because the gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H<sub>2</sub>) in the O<sub>2</sub> line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.]
 
FE-2 Skripochka later conducted the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Elektron which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).
 
All crewmembers joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of uborka house cleaning, Sasha, Oleg &amp; Dima completed regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM (Service Module) and the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM &amp; FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.
 
Winding up the current TVIS treadmill troubleshooting, Kaleri performed an unmanned TVIS Speed Characterization Test.  Afterwards the resulting TVIS PCMCIA memory card data were downlinked so engineers could begin their review.       [After the data review, the ground was to provide a GO/NO GO call for Skripochka to proceed with the manned ACO (Activation &amp; Checkout) portion, monitored with camcorder and Shure microphone to record audio and video for downlink.  After assessment of the video, a GO/NO GO call will be given to resume nominal exercise.]
 
FE-6 Coleman closed the external protective shutters of the Lab, Node-3/Cupola and Kibo JPM  windows in preparation for tomorrow morning’ Soyuz 24S thruster testing (3:44am EDT).
 
FE-2 Skripochka made preparations for a microbial air sampling session scheduled tomorrow and subsequent with the MedOps SZM-MO-21 ECOSFERA equipment, initiating charging on the Ecosphere power pack (BP) and readying the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic container (at -22 degC) for the samples.    [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger, power supply unit, and incubation tray for Petri dishes, determines microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.]
 
Later, FE-2 completed another data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was Oleg’s 11<sup>th</sup> run.      [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
Before sleep time, Oleg will prepare the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his 14<sup>th</sup> experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
Dmitri completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.       [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
At ~5:15am, Paolo Nespoli powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 5:20am conducted a ham radio session with students at Sculo Media Statale "Francesco d' Assisi" and Didattico Don Lorenzo Milani, Modugno, BA, Italy.
 
At ~8:25am, Cady Coleman turned on the amateur radio gear and at 8:30am conducted a ham pass with students at Shri Krishna Vithyaalayam Matric School, Pollachi (TK), India.
 
At ~9:00am EST, the six crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~9:50am, Oleg, Alex &amp; Dmitri supported a Russian PAO TV event, downlinking greetings to the participants of the “50 Years of The First Space Flight Workshop and Exhibition” at the city of Korolev next week, from 3/15-17.       [Korolev will host an international workshop of educational institutions of secondary &amp; higher vocational level, training specialists for rocket and space industry and of enterprises-members of the International Association of Space Communities.  The workshop is sponsored by the RF Ministry of Education &amp; Science, the International Association of Space Communities, the Federal Space Agency, Korolev College of Space Engineering &amp; Technologies, the Russian Federation of Cosmonautics, and the Korolev municipal authorities.   “…Space research, one of the most important activities of humankind, is secured by high-tech space systems.  At the present time, to develop personnel training system and promote occupational prestige are areas of specific concern that contribute to the success of rocket and space industry as well as meticulous work on education and upbringing of gifted children and young people…   Be healthy and successful in your work, and proudly meet new challenges! --- May we also cast a separate greetings to the young participants of the 3rd World Contest of Children Drawings depicting “Space exploration”.  About ten-thousand young artists from more than thirty countries have taken part in the Contest this year.  In your drawings you not only successfully demonstrated the skills you learned from the teachers, but also showed love and care about our common home – the Earth.  We wish you further creative successes!  Move on and master new knowledge, advance your talent!  Tomorrow depends on you.  And that is not only the tomorrow of our countries but of the whole planet.” 
 
The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1/2x, FE-2/2x, FE-4, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with load trainer (FE-4).   [TVIS continues to be powered off; troubleshooting is underway.]
 

