ISS On-Orbit Status 03/13/10
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – light-duty day.
 
  At wake-up, FE-1 Suraev performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspects the filters tonight before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
  For the biomed experiment INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function), Jeff Williams &amp; Timothy Creamer completed their scheduled liquid saliva collection session, starting right after wake-up, using a “salivette” pouch from the kits to be returned to Earth on Soyuz 20S.  Saliva samples are taken every other day for six days, and the samples are stored at ambient temperature.     [Along with NUTRITION (Nutritional Status Assessment), INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples &amp; analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned to the ground so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]
 
  CDR Williams &amp; FE-5 Noguchi began the 24-hr urine sample collections set up yesterday for the Generic HRF (Human Research Facility) Blood &amp; Urine Activities.  Each sample was scanned and ID’d before being stowed in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).      [Based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities, the generic blood &amp; urine procedures were created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
  The five station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  As part of the house cleaning, Suraev &amp; Kotov conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and also Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).
 
  To get physically ready for his return to gravity next week, FE-1 Suraev completed his fourth (of five) preparatory orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test session with the Russian Chibis suit, conducting the MedOps MO-4 exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill.   With Oleg Kotov acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer), Maxim was supported in his 55-min session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 7:15am on DO1.  There will be one more run.      [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Suraev’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  Data output includes blood pressure readings.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by one cycle of a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -25, -30, -35 and -40 mmHg for five min. each, while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, while wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]
 
  In the SM, the FE-1 also did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  Jeff Williams worked on the mechanism of the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) to disable the two upper stop cables which were found to be damaged, with the right one frayed beyond use and the left cable kinked.     [Without the upper cable stops, the ARED was determined to be safe for any cable exercises except for bar exercises, i.e., with the body in an upright position as for squats and heel raises.  Squats being the most beneficial exercises on ARED, exercise specialists are currently working hard on a workaround for these two exercises for the crew.] 
 
  In the Soyuz TMA-16/20S, Suraev switched the BVN air heater fan to run without heater.
 
  The FE-1 also downlinked high-definition video footage shot in the last few days for the Russian TVTs television channel for his “News From Weightlessness” series on his voluntary task list, using USOS Ku-band assets for the HD downlink.     [“Dear viewers, this is Maxim Suraev and this is the last episode of “News From Weightlessness”.  As you probably know, on March 18 Jeff Williams and I will return to the ground.  I have already started preparations.  A few months back, my friend Roman Romanenko also did exercises in these pants that create negative pressure in the lower portion of your body.  Romka, see you soon!  For almost three weeks, Oleg Kotov will remain the only cosmonaut on the Russian segment. Oleg has a twofold objective. He will not only be in charge of the Russian segment but of the entire station.  He will replace Jeff in this capacity a few days before undocking….”]
 
  Timothy Creamer filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
  Jobs listed for Suraev &amp; Kotov for today on the Russian discretionary “as time permits” task list were –
 <ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Newsreel shooting for the      photo- &amp; video database (Flight Chronicle) of ISS Increment 22,      using the SONY HVR-Z7 high-definition camcorder,</li> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Activating the water pump      for Root Module #22 of the BIO-5      Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment for 10 minutes,</li> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Another run of the GFI-8 "Uragan"      (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D2X digital camera      photography with 800mm telelens (targets: focusing on flooding of five      small water reservoirs after dam breach in the north from Kapchaghai      reservoir in the steppe because of the melting snow, overall view of Aral,      vestiges of flood after tsunami hit the coast of Chile, and sea currents      in the Caribbean, Sargasso and Pacific seas),</li> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A session for Russia's EKON Environmental      Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of      environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera, and</li> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Pumping urine from the SM      to the BV2 tank      of Progress M-03M/35P. </li> </ul> 
  At ~9:05am EST, the crew held their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  At ~10:10am, Max &amp; Oleg powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 10:15am conducted a ham radio session with students, municipal administration staff &amp; media at the municipal extra-curricular educational institution of the Russian city of Orel.
 
  At ~10:45am, the entire crew downlinked a TV message of greeting &amp; congratulations to Yuri Nikolayevich Koptev for his 70<sup>th</sup> birthday today.      [Yuri Koptev, well known and highly respected in the international space community, was Director General of Roskosmos from 1992-2004, instrumental in the forging of the international partnership of the ISS and closing down the Mir space station.]
 
  At ~11:00am, CDR Williams held his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
  The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (FE-1/ODNT, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive device (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-4).
 
 ARED Issue:  See above.
  
 IWIS Thruster Test Update:   The IWIS (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System) test with Russian thrusters (not a Soyuz thruster test, as reported here) on 3/12 to “excite” the 4A solar array for structural dynamics measurements was aborted due to the large number of CMG (Control Moment Gyroscope) desaturations required (~58 in 50 mins) and the increasing attitude error of the station (15 deg, mostly in yaw). The test will be rescheduled.    [For the IWIS thruster test, the ISS has to be in free drift.  Desats reduce the accumulated momentum of the CMGs of the US MCS (Motion Control System).] 
 
 20S Thruster Test:   The standard Soyuz pre-undocking thruster test is scheduled for 3/15 (Monday) at ~5:47am EDT.
 
 SSU Shunt Test:    Also on 3/15, beginning at 1:33pm EDT and running through three orbits for 20 min each (1:33pm-1:53pm; 3:05pm-3:25pm; 4:36pm-4:56pm), MCC-H will perform the periodic U.S. solar array efficiency test, which assesses the degradation of the photovoltaics over time.  Before the test, at 1:00pm, the BGAs (Beta Gimbal Assemblies) will be moded to Autotrack (from fixed dual-angle, i.e., no auto biasing) to improve power generation during the test, and afterwards returned to dual angle, with "night glider" drag reduction feathering.    [For the test, the solar array output is shunted (switched) for ~10 min before and unshunted ~2 min after entering eclipse (Earth shadow) such that the circuit current of the SSUs (Sequential Shunt Units) can be recorded to determine solar array output capability.  The amount of current shunted by the arrays will decrease slowly over time as they degrade in the orbital environment.  The test is performed periodically (approximately twice a year) at a Beta angle of 0 plus/minus 5 deg. to allow engineers to track the performance over time and compare degradation trends against the a priori (expected) curve.] 
 
 
 
