
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: Commander (CDR) Wakata replaced the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) manifold bottle within the CIR, allowing ground teams to start FLEX-2 operations via commanding. On Friday, March 14th, Wakata replaced a CIR needle that was bent during ground commanding in February. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. Results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding of how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Space Acceleration Measurement System (SAMS) Control Unit Deployment: Flight Engineer (FE) 5 Mastracchio retired the old SAMS Interim Control Unit (ICU) laptop and deployed the new SAMS Control Unit laptop. Prior to the laptop replacement, the crew burned a new DVD with the software images and set up video to document the deployment. After the deployment ground teams experienced issues when commanding the SAMS to downlink files.  Ground teams powered on a remote SAMS sensor to aid in the troubleshooting and were able to downlink good data, but the time stamps were incorrect. Log files were downlinked and ground teams are reviewing them. The upgrade was in support of the station’s life cycle with nearly continuous acceleration measurements for structural analysis and payloads.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Condensate Water Relief Valve (CWRV) Filter Remove and Replace (R&R):  Wakata and Mastracchio performed an R&R of the EMU CWRV Filter in EMU #3005, first completing a procedure review to familiarize themselves with the task. They removed the CWRV from the EMU, performed an inspection, and then confirmed there was no foreign substance or discoloration.   After cleaning the filter port, the crew installed a new filter into the valve and re-installed the CWRV in the EMU.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Overhead Cleaning: Wakata began cleaning the overhead CQ intake and exhaust ducts, fans and air flow sensors. Due to the large amounts of dust observed during prior CQ cleanings, he removed all applicable panels and cleaned behind them.  He will complete the cleaning activities tomorrow.

