
New Status:
SpaceX (SpX)-2 Cargo Operations:  Commander (CDR) Hadfield and Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn loaded cargo in preparation for unberth scheduled on March 25, 2013.
Marangoni Inside (MI) Core Cleaning:  Following yesterday’s completion of this experiment, Marshburn cleaned the inside of the Marangoni core.  When he was finished cleaning he powered off the camcorder to terminate real time downlink.
Amine Swingbed Payload Review:  Hadfield reviewed procedures and Big Picture words in preparation for tomorrow’s re-assembly and installation of this payload.  This task follows Kevin Ford’s troubleshooting activities earlier this month when he replaced the gear box and reinstalled the payload in the locker.
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-1: Marshburn gathered hardware in preparation for tomorrow’s installation and start of the first run of Sample 1. Advanced Colloids Experiment-1 (ACE-1) is the first in a series of microscopic imaging investigations of materials which contain small colloidal particles capable of remaining evenly dispersed and distributed within the material. This investigation takes advantage of the unique environment of the ISS to separate the effects induced by Earth’s gravity to examine flow characteristics and the evolution and ordering effects within these colloidal materials. Engineering manipulation and the fundamental understanding of materials of this nature aims to enhance the ability to produce, store, and manipulate materials which rely on similar physical properties.
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixture 3 (CSLM-3) Experiment:  Hadfield continued vacuum venting of the CSLM sample chamber in preparation for run #5 scheduled for tomorrow.  CSLM-3 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount of tin branch-like (dendrite) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.
Previous Status (3/18/13)
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixture 3 (CSLM-3) Experiment: Over the weekend Hadfield transferred data from the 3rd sample and started the 4th of 6 runs of this experiment. CSLM-3 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount of tin branch-like (dendrite) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.

Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluation Without Blood:  Today Commander (CDR) Hadfield and Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn conducted their periodic health status check without blood draws.  This test is a routine heath status check crewmembers conduct while on orbit.
Marangoni Inside (MI) Experiment:  Marshburn and Hadfield relocated the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) from Node2 to the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM), and was used by Marshburn to assemble the MI body, core, and cassette hardware.  The MWA was moved to minimize the distance between the MI experiment assembly and the Ryutai Rack, where the experiment will be inserted into the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF).  The setup of the equipment today is Day 1 of a  4 day activity.  Marangoni convection is the flow driven by the presence of a surface tension gradient which can be produced by temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface. The convection in liquid bridge of silicone oil is generated by heating the one disc higher than the other. Scientists are observing flow patterns of how fluids move to learn more about how heat is transferred in microgravity.
Growth of Homogeneous SiGe Crystals in Microgravity by the TLZ Method (Hicari) Experiment: Marshburn removed the sample cartridge from the Kobairo rack and stowed it for return on SpX-2. This investigation aims to verify the crystal-growth by Travelling Liquidous Zone method, and to produce high-quality crystals of Silicon-Germanium (SiGe) semiconductor using the Japanese Experiment Module-Gradient Heating Furnace (JEM-GHF). Once this method is established, it is expected to be applied for developing much efficient solar cells and semiconductor-based electronics.
Binary Collodial Alloy Test (BCAT)-C1: Hadfield initialized the first run of BCAT sample 5. The BCAT-C1 experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions will have the unique property that the particles will phase separate (like oil and water) and the particles will self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light (like opal). Photographing these samples in microgravity allow the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. This study will allow the development of new insights into this important material process.

