
58 Soyuz (58S) Launch and Docking: The 58S Soyuz launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome this afternoon at 2:14 PM CT and completed a nominal 4 orbit rendezvous and docking to the ISS MRM1 Port at 8:01 PM CT. The 58S crew Aleksey Ovchinin, Nick Hague, and Christina Koch returned ISS to 6-crew operations after hatch opening at 10:09 PM CT. This evening, the entire ISS crew will conduct a Safety Briefing to familiarize the new Soyuz crew with potential hazards and available safety measures on-board ISS.  Each crewmember will practice their emergency egress routes and familiarize themselves with emergency equipment locations.
ISS Experience Node 1 Setup: The crew set up Space Station Computer (SSC) 25 and the ISS Experience Z-Cam in order to capture a recording session. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the space station. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Time Perception: Using a head-mounted Oculus Rift display, headphones, finger trackball and laptop computer, the crew performed the Time Perception science sessions.  A program on the laptop induces visual and audio stimuli to measure a subject’s response to spatial and time perception in a microgravity environment. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time is fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination.
Common Video Interface Unit (CVIU)-8 Replacement: In January, the Remote Power Controller (RPC) for CVIU-8 tripped open. After several troubleshooting efforts by crew and ground teams, the problem was isolated to CVIU-8. Today, the crew replaced CVIU-8 with a new unit.  Flight Controllers then successfully activated the CVIU.  CVIUs provide an interface between camcorders and the ISS Video System fiber-optic lines. In addition to video signal conversion, the CVIU also supplies electrical power to the camcorders.

