
Payloads:
Astrobee: The Astrobee systems were powered on and stowage in the area cleared away to allow Astrobee to perform free-flight maneuvers. This type of activity is commonly called “crew minimal” and the goal is for the ground to command the Astrobee experiment systems to complete the session objectives with minimal crew involvement.  Astrobee is made up of free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
Bio-Monitor: New configuration files were loaded onto the Bio-Monitor system. Bio-Monitor will be used to support upcoming investigations including Space Health and Vascular Aging.  Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crew member daily activities.
HRF Veg questionnaire: Using the data collection tool on an available Station Support Computer (SSC), the crew completed their HRF Veg questionnaires. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System investigation is a phased research project that includes Veg-04A, Veg-04B, Veg-05, and HRF Veg. This work addresses the need for a system to produce healthy, fresh food on future long-duration exploration missions to supplement the standard pre-packaged astronaut diet. HRF Veg uses psychological surveys and crew evaluations of the flavor and appeal of plants grown for other investigations on the ISS to focus on the overall behavioral health benefits to crew members of having various plants and fresh food in space.
Systems:
Crew Dragon Tablet Charge and Update: The crew charged four Crew Dragon tablet batteries in order to update emergency deorbit and other data from SpaceX.
