
Advanced Plant Experiments (APEX)-04: The crew configured the Veggie facility for the next APEX-04 Petri Plate sample for a four-day growing cycle. After the four days of growth, the petri plate will be inserted into the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) facility for detailed imaging. The APEX-04 (Epigenetic change in Arabidopsis thaliana in response to spaceflight – differential cytosine DNA methylation of plants on the ISS) experiment investigates how spaceflight can affect an organism on a molecular level without altering its outward appearance. Previous research has demonstrated that large numbers of plant genes are expressed differently in space compared to plants on Earth which can alter how plants grow. This investigation studies the entire genome of thale cress plants grown in space, creating maps of spaceflight-specific changes in certain groups of genes. Results give new insight into plants’ molecular responses to spaceflight which benefits efforts to grow plants in space for food and oxygen.
Rodent Research Preparations: The crew gathered and prepared for this weekend’s Rodent Research operations, configuring the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) facility with necessary equipment and reviewing On-Board-Training (OBT) videos. The Tissue Regeneration-Bone Defect (RR-4) investigation studies what prevents vertebrates such as rodents and humans from regrowing lost bone and tissue, and how the microgravity extraterrestrial condition impacts the process. Results could lead to tissue regeneration efforts in space and a better understanding of limitations of limb regrowth at wound sites.
Fluid Shifts Chibis Imaging Day 2: The 48S subject performed day two of Lower Body Negative Pressure (Chibis) measurements for the Fluid Shifts experiment.  The crew donned the Chibis device and while the crewmember was exposed to the negative pressure (pulling the fluid feetward), then with ground and onboard operator support they configured the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and the Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) hardware, before completing a DPOAE test, OCT exam, and a Tonometry exam. This investigation characterizes the space flight-induced fluid shift, including intra- and extravascular shifts, intra- and extracellular shifts, changes in total body water and lower vs. upper body shifts. Noninvasive techniques are used to assess arterial and venous dimensions and flow parameters, ocular pressure and structure, and changes in intracranial pressure. Lower body negative pressure is being investigated for its ability to mitigate some of the effects of the space flight-induced fluid shift. Results from this investigation are expected to help define the causes of the ocular structure and vision changes associated with long duration space flight, and assist in the development of countermeasures. 
Auxin Transport: The crew completed Day 4 operations of the Auxin Transport experiment.  The crew viewed the demo video for the tube fixation and retrieved the trays required for cold stowage insertion.  The samples will be harvested and fixated tomorrow and inserted into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) on Sunday. Auxin Transport is a JAXA sponsored study to clarify the role of the plant hormone auxin under microgravity conditions.  Specialists hope to collect gene expression data, including levels and redistribution of the proteins for auto-morphogenesis (differentiation of tissues and subsequent growth without an introduced stimulus) using corn plants as the plant organism model for Auxin Transport 4.
Group Combustion Bottle Exchange: The crew performed a gas bottle unit air exchange in the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) work volume in support of the Group Combustion Experiment Module (GCEM) upcoming runs. GCEM studies flame propagation in microgravity through observation of droplet interval, arrangement and size during combustion events. The Elucidation of Flame Spread and Group Combustion Excitation Mechanism of Randomly-distributed Droplet Clouds (Group Combustion) investigation tests a theory that fuel sprays change from partial to group combustion as flames spread across a cloud of droplets. In the MSPR in the Kibo module, droplets of decane are arranged randomly on thin-fiber lattice points, and the flame and droplet positions and temperature distribution are measured as the flame spreads. Microgravity blocks convection, which on Earth would quickly disperse the droplets and combustion products before such measurements could be made. 
General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER)-2: Last night GLACIER-2 (planned to be at +4° Celsius) experienced a plethora of unexpected reboots. Ground controllers attempted several recovery steps but were unable to resolve the issue.  To reduce heat generation within the unit, the GLACIER was powered off and at crew wakeup, the Auxin Transport samples were moved to GLACIER-1, which was already at the appropriate temperature.  No science loss is anticipated, as the highest temperature that the samples saw was below critical temperatures.  Ground teams are reviewing data to determine cause of the reboots.
Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA) 3 Operations: Following this week’s PMA3 activities, today the crew recorded PMA3 pressure reading and tore down the Internal Sampling Adapter (ISA)/Vacuum Access Jumper (VAJ) setup. 
Orbital 7 (OA-7) On-board Training (OBT): In preparation for OA-7 berth currently planned for March 23, the USOS crew completed another session of Cygnus rendezvous training. The focus was on both nominal and off nominal operations as well as crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding the vehicle.
SpaceX-10 Cargo Operations: The crew has completed approximately 30 hours of cargo packing with approximately 20 hours of packing to be completed.

