
Payloads
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) / Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): The crew performed the steps necessary to lubricate the quick disconnect (QD) for the gas chromatograph argon gas bottle. They also replaced the N2/O2 gas bottle at manifold 2 and installed an ethane fuel bottle at the manifold 4 location. This was performed in support of the Cool Flames Investigation with Gases (CFI-G) experiment. Cool diffusion flames were discovered during droplet combustion experiments aboard the ISS in 2012, and this initiated a rapidly growing field of combustion research. A cool flame is one that burns at about 600 degrees Celsius. A typical candle is about three-and-a-half times hotter, burning at around 1,400 degrees Celsius. Most internal combustion engines are designed using computer models that neglect cool flame chemistry, but ignition and flame propagation in engines depend on cool flame chemistry. Cool flame chemistry also has a significant impact on fuel octane and cetane numbers, whose understanding has large economic consequences.
Human Research Facility (HRF)-1 improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG) Install: Following the resolution of the coolant line interference with the iPEHG power cable last week, the crew continued the activities to replace the Payload Ethernet Hub Bridge (PEHB) with an iPEHG. HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Myotones: The crew marked the location of the seven muscles, two tendons and one area of fascia studied in the investigation and took measurements with the Myotones device. The Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation are expected to provide insight into principles of human resting muscle tone, which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions.
Ribosome Profiling: Tuesday was planned to be day-1 of the experiment, but issues were encountered with a cable connection. This was resolved, but the experiment will need to be replanned to a later date. Since life on Earth emerged about 4 billion years ago, living species have evolutionally adjusted to Earth’s gravity. However, how cells utilize gravity for their gene expression has remained largely unknown. The Genome-wide Survey of Translational Control in Microgravity (Ribosome Profiling) investigation aims to provide insight into how gravity impacts gene expression, with a special focus on translation regulation utilizing a state-of-art technique called “ribosome profiling”.
Systems
Soyuz Relocation Preparations: The 63S crew completed an On-board Training (OBT) in preparation for the upcoming 63S Soyuz port relocation. The training session covered undocking and docking procedures as well as a walkthrough of associated relocation milestones. Additionally, the 63S Soyuz performed a thruster test to verify flight readiness. The 63S crew will board their Soyuz and relocate the vehicle from the MRM1 port to the MRM2 port on Friday March 19th in order to allow for 64S Soyuz docking at the MRM1 port planned on April 9th.
Catalytic Reactor Remove & Replace (R&R) Preparations: In preparation for the Catalytic Reactor R&R planned for tomorrow, the crew removed portions of Treadmill 2 (T2) in Node 3 and installed Active Rack Isolation System (ARIS) pivot fittings to the Water Recovery System (WRS) Rack. This activity allows access to rotate WRS-1 Rack. T2 will not be available for exercise until after the Catalytic Reactor R&R is completed.
Ultrasound Eye Exam: Today the crew used an ultrasound device to perform an eye scan, one of several routine ultrasound eye exams during their stay on ISS. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmember’s eye health. Eyesight is one of many aspects of the human body affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.

