
Payloads:
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The crew reviewed the procedure, gained access to the BFF experiment chamber, and attempted to unclog two smart pump systems. Unfortunately, the unclog attempt was not successful. New Bioink syringes will arrive on SpX-30 which will allow the operations to continue. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe; however, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravitational environment. To overcome this challenge, BFF has been designed to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): Routine periodic touching was performed for two experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months before returning to Earth for analysis.
Cerebral Autoregulation: The crew set up the appropriate experiment hardware and performed a science session. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply. The brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight to provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
Flawless Space Fibers-1: Following a very successful series of fiber draws, the facility hardware was removed from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and stowed. Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consisting of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3, and 20% NaF. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
Immunity Assay: In support of the second day of the Immunity Assay science session, sample processing was continued. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions with the help of a functional immune test.
Systems:
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew verified the Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs), and Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs) are all free of damage to ensure functionality. This inspection was to determine if the PEPs were in a good operational condition in case they are ever needed by the crew in an emergency. The crew inspected the various emergency provisions at multiple locations throughout the ISS. The crew also performed a 180-day Quick Don Mask Assembly (QDMA) harness maintenance.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The fill was then terminated, and the Post-Flight Analysis Bag was analyzed after the pressure relief burp. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use. 
Internal Wireless Instrumentation System (IWIS) Remote Sensor Unit (RSU) Firmware Update: The crew reloaded the firmware on an IWIS RSU using a Space Station Computer (SSC) laptop and IWIS Programming Cable. The IWIS is a Structure and Mechanisms (S&M) instrument used to measure ISS vibrations due to thruster firings, dockings, or exercise activities. The IWIS RSUs are located in the RSOS and take the recoded triaxial acceleration data and communicates the data to a Network Control Unit (NCU) in the US Lab.
