
Gene, Immune and Cellular Responses to Single and Combined Space Flight Conditions-B (TripleLux-B):
Following Monday’s successful recovery of the Columbus Biolab (BLB) facility, Cristoforetti continued with TripleLux-B activities today.  She inserted the Experiment Container (EC) Handling Mechanism (HM) into the BLB Glovebox and installed the TripleLux and Viability Test ECs into the left rotor for EC characterization.  TripleLux compares the mechanisms of vertebrate and invertebrate cells at a cellular level which causes impairment of immune functions in microgravity through induction of gene activation, phagocytosis (ingestion of foreign material), and DNA repair in vertebrate and invertebrate immune cells. TripleLux-B examines the immune function of the blue mussel (Mytilus edulis), hemocytes (cellular component of invertebrate blood), compared to rodent macrophages (white blood cells responsible for eating foreign material) to function in microgravity.

Factors Contributing to Food Acceptability and Consumption, Mood and Stress on Long-Term Space Missions (Astro Palate): Virts performed the third of four Part-A Astro Palate sessions. He took his blood pressure and salivary samples before his midday meal, then unstowed his meal selection, choosing duplicate items to consume on a later date. Following lunch, he took another blood pressure reading and salivary sample then inserted the saliva samples in MELFI. The objective of Part A is to determine whether eliminating the need to choose menu items within a meal will reduce stress and improve mood. Crew members’ stress levels and moods are compared before and after a meal on four days. Day 3 involves the crew member’s choice of menu items for lunch and will be compared to Day 4. The changes in measures for days 1 and 3, when the crew members choose their meal components, are compared with the changes in the measures on days 2 and 4, when the crew members do not choose their meal components. Astro Palate studies the relationship among emotions, mood, stress and eating during spaceflight. The study explores ways to minimize stressful aspects of the eating situation so that individuals consume more food and are more satisfied with it. Additionally, the experiment examines ways to use eating itself to reduce stress or negative moods that crew members might normally experience in flight. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Hydraulic Components Remove & Replace (R&R): Virts performed this scheduled preventive maintenance to R&R the urine valve block, urine lines, urine pressure sensors and WHC flush water tank empty pressure sensor.
ISS Reboost: A reboost using 58P thrusters was successfully performed last evening to set up for 42S 4-orbit rendezvous scheduled on March 27. Burn duration was 4 minutes, 18 seconds with a delta-V of 0.58 meters/second.

