
National Geographic “Live from Space” Event:  The ISS crew will participate in the National Geographic “Live from Space” program tonight and again on Sunday.  The program is a live, two hour special being broadcast from Johnson Space Center’s Mission Control viewing room.  Tonight’s episode, which starts at 7pm CDT, will be broadcast on the National Geographic channel worldwide, while Sunday’s program will be broadcast on Channel 4 in the United Kingdom.  This program will feature stories about the mission and science being conducted aboard the ISS including several live interviews from orbit with Commander (CDR) Wakata and FE-5 Mastracchio. 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Acoustic Dosimeters Data Transfer and Stow: Following yesterday’s activity to measure the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS, Mastracchio transferred the data to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for downlink to the ground for assessment. When the data had been transferred, he stowed the dosimeters.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Needle Replacement: Wakata replaced the CIR needle that was bent during igniter position ground commanding on February 13th. The CIR is currently configured for Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) FLame Extinguishment Experiment  (FLEX)-2, which uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels. The next FLEX-2 experiment run is scheduled for next week.
Petri-Plant Light Measurement: Wakata measured the light intensity at the Deck 1 rack in the US Lab where the Petri-Plants will be deployed using a light meter tablet application. The initial light measurement values will provide data for the ground control portion of the investigation. Petri-Plants will be delivered to the ISS on SpaceX-3, scheduled to launch no earlier than March 30th.

