
MAGVECTOR: Peake activated the 8th and final MAGVECTOR run for Increments 47 and 48. The experiment will run for the next 5 days with completion planned for Friday, March 18. MAGVECTOR qualitatively investigates the interaction between a moving magnetic field and an electrical conductor. The expected changes in the magnetic field structure on the ram and wake side of the electrical conductor are of interest for technical applications as well as for astrophysical research.
 
Multi-Omics: Peake checked the remaining Flight Operations System (FOS) packages and stowed the samples for the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Multi-Omics investigation. The Multi-Omics analysis of human microbial-metabolic cross-talk in the space ecosystem, evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function, by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the gut microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system.
 
Fine Motor Skills:  Kopra and Peake each completed a session of the Fine Motor Skills experiment, performing a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
 
Microbiome:  Kopra completed a questionnaire, set up body sampling collection equipment, and printed the reference guide to support a Microbiome session tomorrow.  Microbiome investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s Microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
Payload Data Handling (PDH) Remove & Replace (R&R): Peake successfully R&Rd PDH2 with PDH that was originally installed. PDH2 was an enhancement to the original, however, when it was installed in January, it did not perform as expected and could not be activated via the ground. Troubleshooting steps revealed that it could not be repaired on orbit, therefore the original PDH was reinstalled today. The PDH provides redundancy and is required for JAXA life science experiments arriving on SpX-8. Nominal operations can be conducted with the PDH that was re-installed today. PDH2 will return on SpX-8 for ground assessment as future experiments will require the enhancements provided by PDH2.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Hydraulic Components R&R: Kopra completed this preventive maintenance that is scheduled yearly. He R&Rd the WHC urine valve block, urine lines, urine pressure sensors and WHC Flush Water Tank Empty Pressure sensor.

