
Mouse Mission-5: The crew completed mouse transfer and related activities to start the mission.  The purpose of this mission is to analyze any alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term space environment.
Nanoracks Module-9: The crew performed the first set of operations (“Ops 1”) on the Nanoracks mod-9 tubes including opening of clamps on 3 of the tubes, followed by gently (or vigorously depending on the tube) mixing of the contents by shaking them.  Some of the experiments in this group of mixture tubes included the effects of microgravity on the growth of various organisms, as well as the effect of microgravity on the ability of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to perform double-stranded DNA break repairs.  The experiments use NanoRacks MixStix, miniature laboratories activated by space station crew and eventually returned to the student teams on Earth for analysis.
Nanoracks Science Box:  In preparation for autonomous operations, the crew installed the NanoRacks Science Box into EXPRESS Rack 6 and connected the appropriate cables.  NanoRacks Science Box, also known as Nanoracks Black Box, is a key part of NanoRacks’ next generation International Space Station platforms. This new platform is specially designed to provide near-launch payload turnover of autonomous payloads while providing advanced science capabilities for customers, including use of robotics, new automated MixStix and NanoLab-style research. Black Box is a locker-sized platform that accommodates up to 18U of payloads. Technology Demonstrations on OA-5 NanoRacks-Black Box include NanoRacks-Valley Christian-Microsoft IoT NanoLab, NanoRacks-Edge of Space-Sphero-SPRK, and NanoRacks Automated MixStix.
OsteoOmics: The crew performed a cell culture media exchange on the remaining viable BioCells in habitat 3.  Last week, some of the Biocells in multiple habitats were found to be contaminated and were removed.  The cause of the contamination is under discussion.  Millions of Americans experience bone loss, which results from disease or the reduced effects of gravity that can occur in bed-ridden patients. OsteoOmics tests whether magnetic levitation accurately simulates the free-fall conditions of microgravity by comparing genetic expression osteoblastic cells, a type of bone cell, levitated in a high-field superconducting magnet with cells flown in low-Earth orbit. This information helps scientists determine the molecular and metabolic changes that take place in magnetic levitation and real microgravity.
Space Cells-01: The crew inserted 4 Space Cells-01 Plate Habitats into CGBA-4.  Space Cells-01 examines gene expression changes and genetic mutations in hemp and coffee plant cells in microgravity. The cell cultures spend approximately one month on the space station then return to Earth for analysis of their physical structure and gene expression and are compared to preflight parameters. Results could help identify new varieties or chemical expressions in the plants and improve understanding of how plants manage the stress of space travel.
Systems
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status: Following UPA issues on Sunday which indicated a seizing of the drive train and imminent hard failure of the Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA), engineering teams met yesterday to develop a forward plan. Their assessment was that the PCPA is near end-of-life and recommended replacement of the unit with an available on-orbit spare. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Maintenance: The crew removed and replaced the piping between the pump separator and the dose pump. During the activity the crew reported some dried contamination at the M-connector at the dose pump which has been noted on previous piping R&R’s. The contamination, suspected to be dried pretreat, was photo documented, cleaned, and the hardware was replaced nominally.  Ground teams will review the photos.
SpX-20 Cargo Unload: The crew transferred center stack bags and unpacked 3 Double Coldbags (DCB) into Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator II (MERLIN) and ambient locations. After they removed the science from the bags, the ice bricks and DCBs were temp stowed.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Double Walkoff: An SSRMS double walkoff to Mobile Base System (MBS) 1 is in work in preparation for the LEE A snare survey scheduled Wednesday.

