
New Status:
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixture 3 (CSLM-3) Experiment: Over the weekend Hadfield transferred data from the 3rd sample and started the 4th of 6 runs of this experiment. CSLM-3 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount of tin branch-like (dendrite) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.

Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluation Without Blood:  Today Commander (CDR) Hadfield and Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn conducted their periodic health status check without blood draws.  This test is a routine heath status check crewmembers conduct while on orbit.
Marangoni Inside (MI) Experiment:  Marshburn and Hadfield relocated the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) from Node2 to the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM), and was used by Marshburn to assemble the MI body, core, and cassette hardware.  The MWA was moved to minimize the distance between the MI experiment assembly and the Ryutai Rack, where the experiment will be inserted into the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF).  The setup of the equipment today is Day 1 of a  4 day activity.  Marangoni convection is the flow driven by the presence of a surface tension gradient which can be produced by temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface. The convection in liquid bridge of silicone oil is generated by heating the one disc higher than the other. Scientists are observing flow patterns of how fluids move to learn more about how heat is transferred in microgravity.
Growth of Homogeneous SiGe Crystals in Microgravity by the TLZ Method (Hicari) Experiment: Marshburn removed the sample cartridge from the Kobairo rack and stowed it for return on SpX-2. This investigation aims to verify the crystal-growth by Travelling Liquidous Zone method, and to produce high-quality crystals of Silicon-Germanium (SiGe) semiconductor using the Japanese Experiment Module-Gradient Heating Furnace (JEM-GHF). Once this method is established, it is expected to be applied for developing much efficient solar cells and semiconductor-based electronics.
Binary Collodial Alloy Test (BCAT)-C1: Hadfield initialized the first run of BCAT sample 5. The BCAT-C1 experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions will have the unique property that the particles will phase separate (like oil and water) and the particles will self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light (like opal). Photographing these samples in microgravity allow the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. This study will allow the development of new insights into this important material process.
Previous Status (3/15/13)
32 Soyuz (S) Undock & Landing: Following a delay in undocking yesterday due to adverse weather conditions, 32 Soyuz undocked from ISS tonight at 6:43pm CDT bringing Ford, Novitskiy and Tarelkin back to earth.  The Soyuz performed a nominal automated de-orbit burn and following a nominal separation of modules, descended successfully under parachutes.  The Soyuz vehicle landed in the nominal region at approximately 10:06 pm CDT.
Amine Swingbed Reinstallation: Commander (CDR) Hadfield and Flight Engineer (FE)-Ford reviewed the procedure for reassembling the Amine Swingbed back to its operating configuration.  Ford worked with the Amine Swingbed during his time on orbit.  Hadfield will continue working on Amine Swingbed following Ford’s departure on 32S.  Ford shared tips and tricks for working on the hardware with Hadfield during the session.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Periodic Fitness Evaluation (PFE):  Marshburn performed his monthly physiological evaluation, with assistance from Hadfield.  The purpose of this activity is to monitor crewmembers’ overall fitness levels to ensure that cardiovascular and musculoskeletal health and performance is satisfactory. The activity consists of performing a graded exercise test on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).
Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixture (CSLM):  Hadfield initiated vacuum venting of the CSLM-2 Sample Chamber in preparation for sample #4 of 6 planned samples.  CSLM-3 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount of tin branch-like (dendrite) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.
Three-Axis Telescope (TRITEL) Checkout: Hadfield transferred TRITEL experiment data to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for downlink to the Ground. The TRITEL investigation characterizes the radiation environment within the Columbus module of the International Space Station (ISS) with high accuracy. Continued characterization and understanding of the space radiation environment allows researchers to better protect humans during space flight and provides data for improving shielding properties of future spacecraft designs.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM):  Marshburn cleaned the Node 1 aft hatch seals, removed and replaced a Lamp Housing Assembly (LHA) in Node 3, and cleaned the Airlock duct smoke detector.

