All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – half-day off for CDR Fincke, FE-1 Lonchakov &amp; FE-2 Magnus.  &gt;&gt;&gt;Today is Commander Michael Fincke’s 42nd birthday.  Happy Birthday, Mike!&lt;&lt;&lt;   For math freaks worldwide, 3/14 is also “Happy Pi Day” (3.1415926…). 
 
 With STS-119/15A launch re-scheduled for not earlier than tomorrow evening, the crew’s wake period is again shifting back from yesterday, to 7:30am-9:00pm EDT, to adjust to a Discovery arrival on 3/17 and the subsequent docked period.
 
 In the DC1 (Docking Compartment), FE-1 Lonchakov terminated the discharge process on the second 825M3 Orlan battery pack in the ZU-S recharge unit.
 
 Afterwards, the FE-1 also spent another two hours on post-EVA clean-up operations, stowing tools while keeping track of the moves in the IMS (Inventory Management System).  Ground support was available for tagup as required.
 
 At ~9:20am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 CDR Fincke performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.] 
 
 The station residents completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (CDR, FE-2), TVIS treadmill (FE-1/2.5h) and ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2).
 
 Later today, FE-2 Magnus is scheduled to terminate the recharge of REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery) #1008 in the US Airlock.
 
 Sandra will also perform the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC (Station Support Computer) laptops.
 
 The crew is timelined for the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 In the JAXA “Kibo” JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Sandy will be assisting SSIPC/Tsukuba (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center) Flight Controllers in more troubleshooting the failed CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) Micro-G Incubator temperature controller fan.    [On 2/28, the fan was found to be not working, depriving the system of essential temperature control (neither too cold nor too hot).  The fan is a three-phase motor which mechanically stops at 12 different positions by magnet force of the fan motor, and the potential cause of the anomaly is breaking of one of the magnetic stoppage coils.  Sandy’s support consists in rotating the fan to its non-startable position and observing/reporting whether it starts rotating this time.]
 
 At ~2:20pm, the CDR will have his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), today clearly to receive birthday congrats from his family.
 
 
