
ISS Reboost: At 8:11 AM CDT, the ISS performed a reboost using the Aft Progress 87P rendezvous and docking (R&D) thrusters. The purpose of this reboost was to set up proper phasing conditions for the upcoming Soyuz 71S launch and Soyuz 70S landing. The burn duration was 17 minutes 20 seconds with a delta-V of 1.59 m/s.
Payloads:
Flawless Space Fibers-1 (FSF-1): The processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the series to be processed. FSF-1 has been able to successfully demonstrate multiple successful ZBLAN fiber draws during their experiment operations. Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consisting of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3, and 20% NaF. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
Immunity Assay: In support of the first day of the Immunity Assay science session, samples were collected and processed, and a questionnaire was filled out. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions with the help of a functional immune test.
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Checkout: The crew verified that the reassembled EMUs, 3004 and 3013, were fully functional following the HUT & WLVTA change outs earlier this week. During this activity, the crew also initiated the final post-flight checkout of HD EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) ID #6, which is installed on the helmet of EMU 3013. The EMU is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth’s orbit. 
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew performed cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-20 cargo vehicle. NG-20 arrived on February 1st and is scheduled to remain on the ISS until July, when it will be unberthed for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. Due to its destructive re-entry, Cygnus provides an opportunity to offload some of the unwanted mass onboard the ISS. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS EveryWear Medication & Nutrition Tracking: The crew recorded daily nutrition and medication intake. EveryWear is an application on the crew’s personal tablets which connects to remote “wearable” sensors built into intelligent clothing. The program allows for extensive physiology data collection for both science research and medical follow-up purposes. This data will used for current ISS crew provision and exercise planning, as well as providing a better understanding of Human Spaceflight in general.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday, Robotics Ground Controllers translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 4 to Worksite 2. They then powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from the Mobile Base System (MBS) Power & Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF 2). Finally, the SSRMS and SPDM were maneuvered into position for the start of SpX-30 operations and powered down.
