
67S Launch and Dock: 67S successfully launched at 10:55 AM CT from the Baikonur Cosmodrome with Cosmonauts Oleg Artemyev, Denis Matveev, and Sergey Korsakov onboard. The vehicle docked at the Node Module at 02:12 PM CT. The ISS complement has increased to 10 crewmembers and will remain so until 65S undock on March 30th.
Payloads:
EasyMotion: The crew donned the EasyMotion suit and then performed a Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) exercise session. The EasyMotion investigation uses whole body Electro-Myo-Stimulation (EMS) with a wearable body skin suit for an ISS crewmember to perform pre- and postflight EMS-assisted exercises. EMS technology initiates spontaneous (involuntary) activation of global musculature (muscle, tendon, fascia) to be monitored (muscle tone/tension and stiffness) inflight using the non-invasive Myoton technology that is currently aboard the space station for the Myotones investigation.
JEM Microbe: Microbial samples were collected from the JPM and JLP areas using a wet sample swab, and photos were taken of the sample locations. Space habitation is a simple ecosystem that mainly consists of humans and microbes, and in the near future, plants. Microbes play important roles for the material cycles and human health but sometimes cause hazardous infectious diseases. The Evaluation of Indoor Microbial Environment in JEM, Kibo Japanese Experiment Module (JEM Microbe) investigation’s continuous microbiological monitoring provides greater insight on changes in microbial community structure during prolonged space habitation to reduce potential hazards for the crew and the infrastructure.
Repository: Blood samples were collected in support of the Repository investigation. Repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Vascular Aging (VA): In support of the multi-day VA experiment session, a 13-hr blood pressure session was completed, and the data was transferred. The Bio-Monitor wearable hardware was also removed and stowed. Emerging data points towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries.
Systems:
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Ammonia Onboard Training (OBT): Today, the crew reviewed EVA emergency procedures for ammonia contamination to understand what contamination looks like on an EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) as well as to learn the process for removing contamination before Airlock ingress is allowed. Ammonia is the cooling fluid used in the US External Thermal Control System (ETCS), and its exposure to the crew can cause eye and throat irritation, inflammation of the respiratory tract, or death. Ammonia leaks require decontamination actions during the EVA to ensure that ingress does not introduce the toxic chemical into the atmosphere of the ISS.
USOS EVA #80 Preparations: The crew reviewed procedures related to the Radiator Beam Valve Module (RBVM) Jumper Install EVA scheduled for Wednesday, March 23rd. The review covered the timelines, tool configurations, and cribsheet the crew will use. After the review, the crew participated in a conference with ground teams to ask questions and discuss the EVA. In addition, the crew terminated the charging of the Lithium-Ion EVA batteries and installed the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) batteries, EMU Long Life Batteries (LLBs), and Metal Oxide (METOX) canisters into EMU 3015 and EMU 3004.
ISS Safety Briefing: The 65S and Endurance crews will familiarize the newly arrived 67S crew with the potential hazards and available safety measures onboard ISS as well as the equipment needed for initial emergency response.
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Tablet Deploy and Checkout: Today, the crew deployed a tablet for the crew of the upcoming Axiom-1 mission. This deployment consisted of charging the tablet and connecting it to the desired ISS Wi-Fi network, PAMNet. The PAMNet network is used for Private Astronauts to connect to ground resources and access the internet. After successfully connecting the tablet to PAMNet, the crew performed a checkout of PAMNet and its expected capabilities.

