
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Fuel Oxidizer Management Assembly (FOMA): The crew performed the FOMA calibration preparatory activities which consisted of closing and opening the appropriate valves on manifold bottles and the GIP (gas interface panel).  The FOMA calibration is a periodic activity required to support CIR science operations. CIR provides sustained, systematic microgravity combustion research and it houses hardware capable of performing combustion experiments to further research of combustion in microgravity.
ISS Experience Hardware Stow: At the end of last week and over the weekend, the crew set up the ISS Experience hardware to observe 58 Soyuz arrival and to record a crewmember’s log. The hardware was then torn down and stowed.  The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The ground team will create 8 to 10 minute videos from footage taken during the six-month investigation covering different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Veg-03H: The crew performed plant thinning and pillow priming over the weekend.  The plant thinning activity removed all but one plant from each pillow, leaving the largest seedling in each plant pillow to continue growing. In order to ensure successful germination of at least one seed, the ground planted 3 seeds in each of the plant pillows.  The plant pillow prime activity adds water to support continued hydration of the plants. The plant pillows in the Veg-03H investigation contain Wasabi Mustard Green and Extra Dwarf Pok Choi seeds.  Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans but future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03H uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate Extra Dwarf Pak Choi and Wasabi mustard which are harvested on-orbit.
U.S. Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for the EVA scheduled on March 22, the crew prepared the Equipment Lock, Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) 3003 and 3008, and ancillary hardware to support EVA prep activities.
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of 58S, all six crew members reviewed and practiced priorities during emergency response including safety of the crew followed by achieving a safe configuration of the ISS. Some of the topics covered included crew accountability, escape vehicle access, ISS Commander responsibilities, and communications and coordination.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Ops: On Saturday, Robotics Ground Controllers commanded the Mobile Transporter (MT) to translate from Worksite (WS) 3 to WS 6. They powered up MSS, maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on the Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload and Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) #2. After releasing SPDM PDGF, Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to walk off onto the MBS PDGF 4. After releasing Node 2 PDGF, SSRMS was maneuvered to unstow SPDM from MBS PDF2 and the whole MSS was then configured for translation. The MT was translated from WS6 to WS7 and SSRMS and SPDM were positioned at the start of the Battery R&R operations. Finally, the SPDM Enhanced On-Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Temporary Platform (EOTP) was rotated. These activities were to set up for US EVA #52 scheduled for this Friday, March 22.

