
ISS Reboost: Today the ISS performed a reboost using the SM Aft 75P R&D thrusters at 1:09 PM CT. This is the first of two planned reboosts to set up phasing for 64S rendezvous on April 9th and 63S landing on April 17th. This reboost also facilitates the separation of the ISS trajectory from re-encountering the jettisoned EP9.
Payloads
Grape Microbiota: In preparation for experiment ops, the crew inspected the recently thawed Grape Microbiota culture bags for leaks or ruptures. The inspection revealed no leaks or ruptures and lots of bubbles, which is a good configuration for the experiment. Microbes (bacteria, algae, and fungi) that coexist with plants are a key factor influencing fruit size, shape, color, flavor, and yield of fruit for grapes and a variety of other crops. Grape Juice Fermentation in Microgravity Aboard ISS observes the complete process of fermentation in microgravity and measures physical and genetic differences in the microbes involved. Characterizing the differences seen in microgravity could provide a better understanding of how microbes affect their host crops.
JEM Airlock (JEMAL) / JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD)-16 Install: The crew completed the remaining activities to install the J-SSOD-16 hardware onto the JEMAL table. Deployment of the eight satellites is currently planned for Sunday. The J-SSOD provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment – Water Recovery (PBRE-WR): The crew performed a routine inspection for water leakage during the PBRE-WR series of experiments PBRE-WR examines flow rates of gas and liquid through a filtering substrate in the space station water processor, replacing oxygen with nitrogen. This investigation could help identify optimum conditions and enhance accuracy of models that predict simultaneous flow of gas and liquid (two-phase flow) in microgravity.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew performed several activities in preparation for the ISS Upgrades 3.5 EVA. The crew completed EVA tool configurations, performed an EVA tool audit, and performed equipment lock preparations. Finally, the crew reviewed procedures and participated in a conference with the ground. The ISS Upgrades 3.5 EVA is scheduled for tomorrow, March 12th, and crew egress is expected at 6:30 AM CT. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew completed routine maintenance to R&R the UR/IF. Following the R&R, the crew cleaned the WHC power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a leak check to close out the activity. 

