
36 Soyuz (36S) Departure/Landing: Soyuz 36S undocked from the MRM2 zenith port bringing Commander (CDR) Kotov, Flight Engineer (FE)-2 Ryazanskiy and FE-3 Hopkins back to earth. The undock command, which initiated the opening of the Soyuz vehicle docking hooks was issued at 7:01pm CDT with physical separation occurring a minute and a half later.  The Soyuz deorbit burn started at 9:30pm CDT and entry was nominal.  Soyuz 36S landing occurred at 10:24pm CDT in the nominal region.
Area Dosimeter Removal for Return:  FE-6 Wakata removed the second area radiation dosimeter on Saturday from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) and handed it over to a Russian crewmember for return on 36S.
Space Midge Experiment Closeout:  On Saturday Wakata watered and later fixated three Midge samples for return on the 36S vehicle.  The fixation preserves the RNA of the recovered larvae for post-flight analysis on the ground.  Dry larvae of the sleeping chironomid (midge) have a molecule responsible for desiccation tolerance.  These larvae will be examined to determine the impact of the space environment on their desiccation tolerance and their gene expression in response to the microgravity environment.
NanoRacks Module 9 Investigation:  On Saturday Wakata activated and shook designated mixing tubes for the last of the six NanoRacks Module 9 sessions.  Student teams from across the United States designed these experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. This investigation is part of the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP), which is sponsored by the commercial Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education program that is overseen by the National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE).
Ham Video Commissioning:  On Saturday and Sunday FE-3 Hopkins supported two Ham Video configuration tests.  These tested the Ham Video system in different configurations during passes over the Amateur Radio on the International Space Station (ARISS) ground station.
Aniso Tubule Closeout:  On Sunday, Wakata removed the Sample Chamber from the Multi Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) flourescent microscope following 48 hours of observation.   This completed the fifth of five planned runs.  JAXA’s Aniso Tubule experiment investigates the roles of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins in gravity-induced growth modification of plant stems.
Sprint Ultrasound Scans: With FE-5 Mastracchio supporting as operator and with remote guidance from the ground, Wakata conducted Sprint ultrasound scans of his thigh and calf. This is part of Wakata’s Flight Day 120 session. The Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Rope Remove and Replace (R&R): With assistance from Wakata, Mastracchio replaced the ARED rope today.  This is regularly scheduled ARED maintenance.

