
The crew is starting to sleep shift this evening in preparation for 32S undock tomorrow evening.

New Status:
Change of Command:  Off-going Commander (CDR) Ford will hand over ISS command responsibilities to CDR Hadfield at approximately 4:10 pm CDT.  The change of command is more than ceremonial, as it defines the point when the 33Soyuz (33S) crew becomes the prime crew in the event of an ISS emergency.  The 33S crew consisting of Hadfield, FE-4 Romanenko, and FE-6 Marshburn will remain onboard the ISS until their return, currently planned for May 14, 2013.

Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixture 3 (CSLM-3) Experiment:  Hadfield terminated vacuum venting begun yesterday and started the processing of the 3rd of 6 planned runs of the experiment. These samples will be returned to the ground on SpX-2.  CSLM-3 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount of tin branch-like (dendrite) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE):  Marshburn completed the first of 2 runs of this experiment, scheduled for today and tomorrow. Today Marshburn used a CFE-2 vessel to perform several Interior Corner Flow tests. These tests show the passive capillary driven redistribution of liquid in a container in low-g due to the specific fluid properties and 3-D geometry of the container and the spontaneous phase separation characteristics of such flows when bubbles are introduced into the liquid. CFE is a suite of fluid physics experiments that investigate capillary flows and flows of fluids in containers with complex geometries. Results will improve current computer models that are used by designers of low gravity fluid systems and may improve fluid transfer systems on future spacecraft.
Cell Bio Tech Demo (CBTD): Marshburn extracted a yeast sample from a container and injected the sample into a media storage bag filled with growth medium. After transferring the sample, Marshburn sealed the media bag by cutting and crimping the tube. This process was repeated for two more identical trays. Finished bags were temporarily stowed in a Cargo Transfer Bag (CTB) for 28 hours incubation. Photos will be taken and samples will be stored in the Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The focus of Cell Bio Tech Demo is to demonstrate the performance of candidate fluid flow path components and sample handling devices in the space flight environment for design and development of the new ISS life science incubator, Bioculture System.
Window Observational Research Facility (WORF) Software Load: Hadfield loaded the Rack Interface Controller (RIC) 8 software onto the WORF using the EXpedite PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) 6 Laptop Computer (ELC) and WORF Laptop Computer (WLC).  The new software allows future software loads to the RIC to be performed from the ground with no crew interaction required.
Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) 1 Coldbox Inspection:  Based on small amounts of corrosion found on the EU connector that was recently returned, the crew inspected the on-orbit MELFI-1 to better understand the root cause and if the problem still exists.  The crew collected a water and debris sample using a cotton swab, which will return on SpX-2 for ground analysis.
32 Soyuz (32S) Preparations for Return:  Today crewmembers (Ford, Novitskiy, Tarelkin) performed final packing of 32S, except for cold samples to be loaded just before hatch closure tomorrow.  Ford removed the DOSIS 3D Passive Detectors from the Columbus module (COL) and handed them over to Novitskiy for loading into 32S.  DOSIS-3D determines the radiation field parameters absorbed dose and dose equivalent inside the ISS with various active and passive radiation detector devices, aiming for a concise three dimensional dose distribution (3D) map of all the segments of the ISS.

Previous Status (3/12/13)
Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Maintenance:  After 24 hrs of successful run time, the Lab CDRA fixed yesterday has been put in stand-by mode.
Biological Research In Canisters-17: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn unpacked and performed actuation of 2 BRIC canisters.  BRIC supports a variety of plant growth investigations which focus on the growth and development of cell cultures in microgravity. Specimens are preserved with a chemical fixative and returned to the ground for post-flight evaluation.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo Experiment: Ford set up the Vertigo Goggles, loaded the SPHERES and Goggles with test session specific programs and executed a session of the experiment. He then downloaded the data and shut down the Goggles. The experiment investigates the ability to create a three-dimensional model of an unknown object in space using only one or two small satellites. The experiment uses passive, visual cameras as the primary sensors to construct the model. These cameras have the advantage of being small and lightweight, as compared to current systems which rely on heavy and power-hungry laser or radio frequency (RF) systems.
CRew User Interface System Enhancement (CRUISE): Hadfield performed a Procedural Display (PD) and Voice Activated Procedure Viewer session using the CRUISE laptop.  This is a technology/crew operations demonstration experiment for voice guided procedure execution in International Procedure Viewer (IPV) and procedural display.
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixture 3 (CSLM-3) Experiment: Hadfield is periodically cycling the Sample Processing Unit (SPU) water valve in preparation for tomorrow’s 3rd of 6 CSLM-3 runs. These samples will be returned to the ground on SpX-2.  CSLM-3 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount of tin branch-like (dendrite) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.
SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device): Hadfield and Marshburn performed this activity in support of the Nutrition experiment. SLAMMD provides an accurate means of determining the mass of the crew in microgravity. The guiding principle of SLAMMD follows that of Newton’s Second Law of Motion, F=ma (i.e., force is equal to mass times acceleration).  For the Human Research Facility (HRF) SLAMMD, the force is generated by two springs inside the SLAMMD 4 Process Unit (PU) drawer. The acceleration used in calculating the mass is actually a calculated average acceleration with regression analysis. The acceleration is measured through the use of a precise optical instrument which detects the position versus time trajectory of the SLAMMD guide arm and a micro controller which collects the raw data and provides the precise timing. The final computation is done via portable laptop computer with SLAMMD unique software.

