ISS On-Orbit Status 03/19/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew off duty.
 
Upon wake-up, CDR Kondratyev performed the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> (oxygen) generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [Dmitri will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
At wake-up, FE-5 Nespoli &amp; FE-6 Coleman completed another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.  It was the 14<sup>h</sup> for Cady &amp; Paolo.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
The crewmembers joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of uborka house cleaning, Kondratyev conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille in the SM (Service Module).
 
For his chosen Voluntary Weekend Science (VolSci) activities today, Paolo Nespoli set up the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) pointing toward the FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory) in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) to cover his subsequent installation of the GEOFLOW-2 EC (Experiment Container).
 
Paolo then retrieved the ESA GEOFLOW (Simulation of Geophysical Fluid Flow under Microgravity) payload from the ATV2 (Automated Transfer Vehicle) and installed its EC in the lower CEM (Central Experiment Module) in the COL (O3 bay rack front).  
 
Afterwards, the Italian Flight Engineer prepared the FSL FCE (Facility Core Element) for scientific operation by unlocking its locking bolts which protected it against acceleration forces and installing 4 AVM (Anti-Vibration Mount) brackets stops to prevent the unwanted extraction of the FCE from the FSL Rack (MVIS/Microgravity Vibration Insulation System locks were not used).       [Background:  GEOFLOW studies thermal convection in the flow of a viscous incompressible fluid (silicone oil) held in a gap between two concentric spheres to model Earth's liquid core.  A central force field is introduced by applying a high voltage difference (10 kV) between the two spheres.  Maintaining the inner sphere at a higher temperature than the outer sphere also creates a temperature gradient (0 to 10 degrees K).  The spheres rotate at rates between 0 and 2 Hz) which is thought to represent the Earth's liquid core, where the role of gravity is played by the central electric field.  These experiments require a weightless environment in order to turn off the unidirectional effect of gravity on Earth.  This is of importance for astrophysical and geophysical problems like global scale flow in the atmosphere, the oceans, and in the liquid nucleus of planets.  There is also an applied interest in this work: the EHD (electro-hydrodynamic) force that simulates the central gravity field may find applications in high-performance heat exchangers, and in the study of electro-viscous phenomena.  The thermal convection will be observed between the two spheres, and temperature distribution will be measured by using Wollaston Shearing Interferometry; additional optical diagnostics may also be used (Schlieren or shadowgraphy).  Numerical simulations and comparisons of GEOFLOW with theoretical predictions for the flow pattern bifurcating from trivial state will be conducted, as well as a comparison with theoretical work on the flow in the Earth's interior.  As a result of the experiments, a detailed description of the transition to turbulence and the transition scenarios to chaos should be obtained.] 
 
Also for VolSci, Paolo initiated charging on two camcorder batteries for the ESA ERB2 (European Recording Binocular 2) experiment for later use.     [After charging (3 hrs minimum) the batteries were temporarily stowed in COL.]
 
Dima completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.       [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
At ~4:30am EDT, FE-5 Nespoli powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 4:35am conducted a ham radio session with students at SIP Cossar / Da Vinci, Gorizia, Italy.
 
At ~8:35am, Dmitri, Paolo &amp; Cady held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
The crewmembers worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill (CDR), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6).     [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC water audit.      [The new card (27-0041) lists 132 CWCs (2,679.7 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (16 CWCs with 675.4 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 347.4 L in 8 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 170.8 L in 4 bags for transfer into EDV-RP containers via US/RSA-B hose, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only;  2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (104 CWCs with 1,909.7 L for reserve, of which 642.2 L in 35 CWCs are listed as “expired”;  4. condensate water (67.3 L in 5 bags incl. 7.1 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 5 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (27.3 L in 2 CWCs from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
JAXA/SSIPC Update:   Outstanding progress in the resumption of nominal operations was reported from SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center)/Tsukuba.  JEM OCS (Operation Control System) &amp; HTV OCS have been checked out; no significant issues were identified.  Their commanding &amp; telemetry monitoring function are nominal.  Prime international communication line was recovered 3/16-17, and test commands from SSIPC for JEM &amp; HTV were sent successfully. A backup line was set up and tested yesterday.  The power situation around SSIPC is not stable yet, and emergency black-outs may occur.  HTV2 departure date is still 3/28.  Great work, JAXA!
 

