
Crew-7 Undock: SpaceX Crew Dragon Endurance undocked from the ISS at 10:20 AM CDT today to return NASA astronaut Jasmin Moghbeli, ESA astronaut Andreas Mogensen, JAXA astronaut Satoshi Furukawa, and Roscosmos cosmonaut Konstantin Borisov following a successful 197 day docked mission. The vehicle is scheduled to splash down near Pensacola, Florida, tomorrow at 4:50 AM CDT.
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device-Kinematics (ARED-K): A crewmember reviewed the On-Board Training (OBT), gathered multi-use brackets, and printed calibration targets to prepare for later science activities. Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, aerobic rowing, and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill, there is no means of ambulating, or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking; therefore, the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of not using a treadmill during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance, which is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): The crew performed the routine periodic touching of two experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months before returning to Earth for analysis.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (CIR/SoFIE): The crew completed the first of two days of operations to reconfigure CIR/SoFIE from Growth and Extinction Limit (GEL) to Material Ignition and Suppression Test (MIST) experiment support. SoFIE-GEL studied burning in microgravity by measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. SoFIE MIST examines thermally assisted burning in microgravity by varying parameters including air flow speed, oxygen concentration, pressure, and level of external radiation.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): In support of the CIPHER suite of investigations, the crew performed cognition testing, blood pressure measurements, pneumotonometry, ultrasound scans, and gathered samples. CIPHER consists of 14 studies designed to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Flawless Space Fibers-1 (FSF-1): The processed preform and spool were exchanged for the next in the series to be processed. FSF-1 has been able to successfully demonstrate multiple successful ZBLAN fiber draws during their experiment operations. Production of Flawless Space Fiber (Flawless Space Fibers-1) tests new hardware and processes for producing high-quality ZBLAN optical fibers in space. ZBLAN is a class of materials with varying compositions, but typically consisting of around 53% ZrF4, 20% BaF2, 4% LaF3, 3% AlF3, and 20% NaF. Previous studies have shown improved properties in fibers produced in the absence of Earth’s gravity, which can degrade the fibers. The ISS provides a platform for rapid production of high-quality fibers with applications in remote sensing and communications in space and on the ground.
Systems:
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew performed cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-20 cargo vehicle. NG-20 arrived on February 1st, and is scheduled to remain on the ISS until July, when it will be unberthed for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. Due to its destructive re-entry, Cygnus provides an opportunity to offload some of the unwanted mass onboard the ISS.
Dragon Nadir Center of Gravity (CG) Correct: After the crew wrapped up the Crew-7 cargo packing operations, photos were taken and sent to the SpaceX ground team for review. After assessing the images, the crew was instructed to make minor changes to secure the cargo and ensure the calculated CG remained in the required envelope. A vehicle’s CG is very important for returning to safely to Earth. If these calculations are done improperly, or if a piece of cargo is stowed in the wrong location, it could cause the vehicle to not enter Earth’s atmosphere on the predicted trajectory.
