
63S Soyuz Port Relocation: Today, the 63S crew boarded the 63S Soyuz and undocked from the ISS Mini-Research Module (MRM)-1 at 11:39 AM CT and docked to the MRM-2 at 12:12 PM CT. Prior to undocking, the crew performed leak checks on the vestibule and hatches between the descent and habitation modules. Once docked to MRM-2, the crew repeated leak checks then ingressed the ISS at 2:20 PM CT. This relocation was performed to clear the MRM-1 docking port for the 64S Soyuz, which is scheduled to dock to the ISS on April 9th, 2021.
Payloads
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Image Processing and Storage Unit (IPSU) Troubleshooting: Following the transfer of operating system files to a suitable Hard Drive, the crew installed it into the IPSU unit in the FIR.  The IPSU has been through various troubleshooting steps since issues first occurred on February 18th.  The FIR is a fluid physics research facility designed to host investigations in areas such as colloids, gels, bubbles, wetting and capillary action, and phase changes, including boiling and condensation.  It has also been used to hold plant growth experiments.
Freezer/Refrigerator/Incubator Device for Galley and Experimentation (FRIDGE)-2 Troubleshooting:  The crew reconfigured the power supply for the FRIDGE-2 unit in order to help determine the cause of previous circuit breaker trips.  FRIDGE is a locker-sized unit that provides active temperature control with a range from -20.0°C to +48.0°C. It can accommodate storage of both crew galley items and scientific research samples and can be fully operated and maintained from the ground.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) Microsat-2 (M2): The crew installed the J-SSOD-M2 hardware to the JEM Airlock slide table.  The J-SSOD-M2 launcher will be later passed through the JEM airlock and satellite deployment is planned for early next week.  The JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
KEyence Research Microscope Testbed (KERMIT): In preparation for the installation of the KERMIT microscope hardware next week, the crew loaded the appropriate software onto the system.  KERMIT is a commercial off-the-shelf microscope that provides researchers with fundamental microscope capabilities, including state-of-the-art imaging and analysis modules. KERMIT is designed to streamline imaging and analysis through a single platform with easy operation by the International Space Station crew and from the ground. KERMIT provides the ability to perform advanced microscopy during spaceflight and remotely from the ground.
Real-time Protein Crystal Growth Phase II (RTPCG-2): The crew pipetted and mixed solutions of varying viscosities onto crystallization plates, sealed the wells, and then transferred the completed plates into Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL).  RTPCG-2 demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity can sometimes produce high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 tests high-quality proteins crystals for detailed analysis back on Earth.
Systems
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Hardware Install: The crew installed a High Definition EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) and Lithium-Ion EVA Helmet Interchangeable Portable Light (EHIP) Power Adapters (LEPA) on EMU 3009. After completing the installation, the crew performed an activation and checkout using a Rechargeable Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Battery Assembly (REBA). With this installation, HECA is equipped on three EMUs on-orbit. The HECA is a collaborative technology between the Gateway/xEVA Project and the ISS/EMU program. 
Crew-1 Dragon Hatch Seal Cover Install: The crew installed a hatch seal cover over the Crew-1 Dragon Forward hatch seal. Prior to completing the final installation of the hatch seal cover, the crew installed and then removed the cover in order to become familiar with the removal process. The hatch seal cover is designed to keep hatch seals free of debris and remove the need for periodic cleanings by the crew.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) USB Hub Install: The crew installed the USB 1.1 Hub in order to gain communication between the ARED Instrumentation Box (AIB) and the ARED Space Station Computer (SSC) ZBook. The ARED SSC was transitioned from a T61P to a ZBook on October 15th, 2020. After this transition the AIB was unable to communicate with the ARED SSC causing ground teams to lose insight into ARED and therefore place exercise and resistance restrictions. The ground confirmed ARED is now communicating nominally and will lift the ARED operation restrictions following a period of observation to confirm that the system is balanced.

