
Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) Functional Checkout: Cristoforetti successfully completed Part 2 of the MARES checkout.  She measured, validated, and calibrated different motor profiles of the MARES facility.  The MARES hardware consists of an adjustable chair and human restraint system, a pantograph (an articulated arm supporting the chair, used to properly position the user), a direct drive motor, associated electronics and experiment programming software, a linear adapter that translates motor rotation into linear movements, and a vibration isolation frame. The MARES facility will be used for research on musculoskeletal, biomechanical, and neuromuscular human physiology to better understand the effects of microgravity on the muscular system. 
Advanced Colloids Experiment-Microscopy 3 (ACE-M3): Virts replaced the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Microscope Power/Data Cable 1 and rotated LMM to service position. He removed APEX-03 Petri Plate from inside the LMM Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC), then installed the LMM objective lenses and the Preliminary Advanced Colloids Experiment (PACE) Light Emitting Diode (LED) Base inside the AFC.  He then mixed wells A1 and B2 on the ACE Sample with the Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-3 Magnet and installed the sample inside the AFC.  Finally, he rotated LMM to the operate position and closed the rack doors. FIR/ACE will perform ACE-M3 Science Run 2a on ACE Sample S/N 2109 through Sunday, March 22.  LMM/ACE will image in several different locations throughout the wells with a focus on imaging with the 63X air objective. At the end of the run, downlinks will be performed and directory listings will be created. The ACE-M3 experiment involves the design and assembly of complex three-dimensional structures from small particles suspended within a fluid medium. These so-called “self-assembled colloidal structures” are vital to the design of advanced optical materials. In the microgravity environment, insight will be provided into the relation between particle shape, crystal symmetry, and structure: a fundamental issue in condensed matter science.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Yearly Certification: Virts performed a functional test and certification of the MSG Sensors.  The first verification was to activate the rack and gather data on MSG’s sensors without cooling for 30 minutes. Then, cooling was restored and the ground collected data for an additional 30 minutes. It is essential that the steps to activate the rack are performed quickly so the uncooled profile can begin as soon as possible following ground activation.  The second evaluation tested the Air Handling Unit (AHU) fans and associated negative pressure control system. MSG uses two Work Volume (WV) Delta Pressure sensors as the input to the negative pressure control system. 
USOS Hatch Seal Inspection: Virts cleaned and inspected USOS hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surface, and hatch handle mechanism for Foreign Object Debris (FOD) and/or damage. The inspection included hatches in the Node 2, Node 3, Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM), Columbus (COL) and Japanese Experiment Module (JEM).
ISS Reboost: Today’s planned reboost using 58P thrusters will set up for the 4-orbit rendezvous for 42S docking scheduled on March 27. Planned burn duration will be 4 minutes, 18 seconds with a delta-V of 0.58 meters/second.

