
Payloads
Antimicrobial Coatings (AC) Touch: Per standard procedure, the crew touched both the coated and uncoated coupons for this long-term investigation. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Astrobatics: The crew relocated items out of the experiment area, set up the appropriate hardware, and performed the Astrobatics experiment session. Astrobee Maneuvering by Robotic Manipulator Hopping (Astrobatics) demonstrates the Astrobee robotic vehicles using robotic manipulators to execute a hopping or self-toss maneuver as the primary mean of propulsion, making it mostly propellant-less. Astrobee performs increasingly complex maneuvers between handrails using its perching arm to demonstrate vehicle dynamic modeling and guidance and control of the robot. These maneuvers may be incorporated into future robotic missions and advanced terrestrial robotic applications.
Actiwatch Plus: Several crewmembers doffed their Actiwatch plus units, verified the display showed the correct data collection mode, then stowed them in the kit. The Actiwatch is a waterproof, nonintrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. The device contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data are stored in nonvolatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Catalytic Reactor: The crew performed the activities necessary to change out the Catalytic Reactor and oxygen filter in the Water Processing Assembly (WPA). The replacement demo Cat Reactor is redesigned with a new catalyst, metal seals, and adjustable oxygen flow rates. Its function is to break down various organic contaminants including small aldehydes and alcohols. While the previous Cat Reactor had an expected lifetime of 2-3 years, this new unit’s life is assumed to be indefinite. Performance of the new Cat Reactor and new oxygen flow controller will be evaluated for 6 months.
ISS Amateur (HAM) Radio Pass: The crew participated in an ISS HAM radio pass with Goodwood Primary School, Adelaide, Australia. Some of the questions from the pre-school through year-7 students included if the ISS crew believes there may be another planet besides Earth humans can live on, what kind of exercise program the Astronauts need to follow, and what the future of the ISS is. The ISS HAM radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Standard Measures: The crew logged into the data collection tool and filled out their Standard Measures pre-sleep questionnaires. The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Systems
Salsa Service Pack: Yesterday, ground specialists successfully loaded Space Station Computers (SSCs) with the Salsa Service Pack. One of the many updates included in the Salsa Service Pack was Arcturus updates for the Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) which arrived on Northrup Grumman (NG)-15.
Columbus Water On Off Valve 8 (WOOV8) Remove & Replace (R&R): Today the crew was scheduled to R&R the WOOV8. Prior to removing the old WOOV8, the crew encountered dried condensate near some of the WOOV8 electrical connectors and WOOV insulation. After spending some time cleaning the site with a vacuum cleaner, teams agreed to keep the old WOOV8 in place and return Experiments to the Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 3 to the nominal configuration. The WOOV8 is a control valve connected to the Columbus module’s Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS). The Columbus ITCS is in a good configuration and the WOOV8 R&R will be rescheduled for a future date.
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: The crew completed several activities to prepare EVA equipment for long-term stow. First, the crew stowed EVA tools. The crew also performed a cooling loop scrub and iodination for Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3006. Finally, the crew initiated a third Metal Oxide (METOX) regeneration cycle and took photos of EMU gloves for downlink to the ground.
Ultrasound Eye Exam: Today the crew used an ultrasound device to perform an eye scan, one of several routine ultrasound eye exams during their stay on ISS. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmember’s eye health. Eyesight is one of many aspects of the human body affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.

