
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Today the crew continued preparing for US EVA #49 – Node 3 External Wireless Communications (EWC) installation, planned for Thursday March 29, 2018. They completed additional Airlock and Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) configuration and performed an EMU Water Tank and Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garment (LVCG) Water Fill. 
Television Camera Interface Converter (TVCIC) Fastener Remove and Replace (R&R): Today two crewmembers R&Rd the three life-limited TVCIC fasteners that secure the unit to the Video Stanchion Support Assembly (VSSA). This TVCIC is required for the External Television Camera Group (ETVCG) scheduled to be installed during Thursday’s EVA.
Cloud-Aerosol Transport System (CATS) Relocation: Overnight, ground controllers relocated the CATS payload from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Exposed Facility Unit (EFU)-3 to EFU-8.  CATS operational power was enabled for 4 minutes but no current draw was observed, which indicates CATS is failed. CATS is now off and will remain in the current location until returned on the SpaceX-17 vehicle. Since no current draw was observed at the new location, there is increased confidence that the EFU-3 site will be ready to support the Orbiting Carbon Observatory (OCO)-3 payload arriving on SpX-17. 
Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA):  Overnight, ground specialist completed a full calibration on the Lab MCA. Post-calibration, all data from the unit looks good and the MCA has achieved Spec Accuracy.  At this time, the LAB MCA is a GO for use.     
AstroPi:  To prepare for the European AstroPi Challenge 2017-2018 the crew installed the new Micro SD Cards with an updated Operating System on both AstroPis.  They also installed a wireless dongle and an optical filter on the AstroPi infrared camera.  The two AstroPis are augmented Raspberry Pi computers equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detects how the station moves through space, and picks up the Earth’s magnetic field. One of the AstroPis has an infrared camera and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera. 
Veg-03:  Today the crew watered the Veg-03 lettuce plants and harvested select leaves for consumption. The plants will be left to grow and sprout new leaves. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets.
Meteor: The crew replaced the hard drive in the Meteor laptop and the diffraction grating in the Meteor camera located in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).  The Meteor payload is a visible spectroscopy instrument with used to observe meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. Since the parent comets or asteroids for most of the meteor showers are identified, the study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids.   
Food Acceptability:  A crewmember completed a Food Acceptability questionnaire today. The Food Acceptability investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
Lighting Effects: A 53S subject conducted a series of three Cognition tests during the day and made a sleep log entry this morning upon waking. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): Today the crew performed routine maintenance on the MSG.  They inspected and cleaned the MSG Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) fan filter and applied grease to the MSG slide rails.
Dragon On-Board Training (OBT):  Today the crewmembers scheduled to capture SpX-14 Dragon completed the first in a series of Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) sessions. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. SpX-14 is on track to launch April 2, 2018 and berth to ISS on April 4, 2018.     

