ISS On-Orbit Status 03/22/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
After breakfast, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  
 
FE-4 Kononenko terminated his 4<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
After setting up the video camcorder to provide a live view of the ER-4 (EXPRESS Rack 4) T61p and A31p laptop screens In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-6 Pettit attempted the scheduled software upgrade of the ER-4 RIC (Rack Interface Controller).  The software load could not be completed because of connectivity problems between the laptop and the cards in the RIC.     [Ground controllers are considering options for workarounds to accomplish the software load.]
 
FE-2 Ivanishin configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h 15m session, his 3<sup>rd</sup>, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure+.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.       [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]
 
FE-1 Shkaplerov undertook his 4<sup>th</sup> session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.         [Anatoly Ivanishin stood by to assist Anton in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes and applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]
 
FE-4 Kononenko completed his 6<sup>th</sup> data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.       [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
CDR Burbank had another 3h 35m scheduled for the 4<sup>th</sup> part of cleaning up the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) “corridor”.  Don Pettit &amp; André Kuipers later joined in the activity for ~1h 15m each.       [The task concerns the relocation of some hardware from PMM rack fronts to PMM lockers/bays or other USOS (US Segment), organizing empty CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) and restowing hardware into the PMM endcone.] 
 
Working in the JAXA Kibo lab, Burbank set up the G1 camcorder for live ground monitoring and then performed resistance measurements on power connector inside the IPU (Image Processing Unit), later closing the front door again. 
 
In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), after powering on the PFM/PAM (Pulmonary Function Module/Photoacoustic Analyzer Module) and initiating PFM/PAM warm-up for CARD rebreathe exercises, FE-5 Kuipers completed Day 2 of the ESA cardiological experiment CARD (Long Term Microgravity: A Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease).       [This included closing out the 24-hr urine collection protocol, performing the fourth &amp; fifth rebreathing sessions and completing the blood draw in two tubes which were then centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge).  Afterwards, André stowed the PFS (Pulmonary Function System), saved all the HLTA BP (Holter Arterial Blood Pressure) data on a PCMCIA memory card and reconnected the MPPL (Multi Purpose Payload Laptop) to its 120VDC outlet.       [After the second centrifugation, the two tubes were placed into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for the ISS) at -80 degC.  CARD includes three double rebreathing sessions yesterday plus two double rebreathings today.  Between these two rebreathings, the CDL HTA was activated to take BP measurements.  CARD was performed for the first time by ESA crewmember Thomas Reiter in November 2006, the last time by Paolo Nespoli in 2011.  Astronauts experience lowered blood volume and pressure during space missions due to relaxation of the cardiovascular system in microgravity which may be a result from decreased fluid and sodium in the body.  CARD examines the relationship between salt intake and the cardiovascular system when exposed to the microgravity environment and explores whether blood pressure &amp; volume can be restored to the same levels that were measured during groundbased measurements by adding additional salt to the crew’s food.  Results from this may lead to new health safety measures for astronauts to protect them on long duration missions.]
 
Oleg Kononenko used the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware at SM window #9 and the overnight freshly charged FSS photo spectrograph battery, taking pictures of targets along the flight track during a 90-minute segment, covering water and coastal areas of ​​the Atlantic Ocean (Bay of Biscay), the island of Sicily, Mount Etna (shooting the vent of the volcano, and if the volcano is active also the volcanic plume), the Aswan dam reservoir. Nasser (Egypt), and the waters of the coastal zone of the Red Sea and Indian Ocean.       [The FSS (Fotospektralnaya sistema) consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module.  FSS includes the ME Electronics Module &amp; MRI Image Recording Module.]
 
Afterwards, Oleg checked out and tested the SM’s TV system in preparation for approach &amp; docking of ATV-3 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 3) next week (Wednesday, 3/28).
 
André serviced the VIABLE experiment (eValuatIon And monitoring of microBiofiLms insidE the ISS), touching and blowing the top of each of 4 VIABLE bags in the FGB (loc. 409) where they are stowed to collect environment samples.  It was his 4<sup>th</sup> time.       [This investigation evaluates microbial biofilm development on space materials.  Objectives are to determine the microbial strain producing the anti-biofilm product, evaluate the chemical nature of the anti-biofilm product, study the innovative materials which are chemo-physically treated, and address the biological safety issues associated with microbial biofilms.  Background: Most surfaces are covered with microorganisms under natural conditions.  The process by which a complex community of microorganisms is established on a surface is known as biofilm formation.  Microbial biofilms can exist in many different forms by a wide range of microorganisms.  The process of biofilm formation is a prerequisite for substantial corrosion and/or deterioration of the underlying materials to take place.  VIABLE samples are composed by both metallic and textile space materials either conventional or innovative (Aluminum, Armaflex and Betacloth).  They are placed inside four foam lined Nomex bags, specifically:  Pouch 1 - untreated space materials; Pouch 2 - space materials pre-treated with biosurfactants; Pouch 3 - space materials pre-treated with hydrogen peroxide; Pouch 4 - space materials chemo-physically pre-treated with silica and silver coating.]
 
Anton completed routine preventive maintenance on the SM Rodnik water storage system, opening and closing the KN water &amp; KV pressurization valves from the Rodnik control panel.     [The procedure of activating each valve twice is intended to keep the valves functional during long-term water storage.],
 
FE-1 also prepared for tomorrow’s scheduled testing of the SEP (Electric Power System) Channel B Power Controller in the SM by breaking out &amp; readying tools &amp; equipment.       [This continues the investigation of the as-yet unresolved uncommanded triggering of the SEPV telemetry parameter (which deactivates the SEP Power Controller on channel B).]
 
Anatoly &amp; Oleg meanwhile continued their periodic inspection of surface conditions of structural elements inside the SM, begun on 3/13, with ~2.5 hrs allotted today.  The evaluation focused on selected plates of the Resurs sensor system inside the SM, by measuring electrical conductivity using the MVP-2K device (done last: October 2011).  Ivanishin later prepared the measurement data for downlink.       [Resurs measuring locations are on the spherical shell of the PrK Transfer Tunnel, on the shell of the PkhO Transfer Compartment and on the inside shells of Zvezda’s RO-1 &amp; RO-2 (large &amp; small diameter) sections.]
 
FE-5 Kuipers conducted the weekly 10-min. CWC (Collapsible Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.      [The current card (29-0008O) lists 28 CWCs (287.25 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (1 CWC with 18.4 L, for Elektron electrolysis, plus 1 empty bag, all containing Wautersia bacteria;  2. Condensate water (5 CWCs with 42.3 L, plus 2 empty bags);  3. Iodinated water (16 CWCs with 195.75 L plus 1 empty bag;  4. Waste water (1 bag with 10.6 L EMU waste water); and  5. Special fluid (1 CWC with 20.2 L, hose/pump flush). Also one leaky CWC (#1024) with 8.5L).  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
Later, André performed routine maintenance on the WRS (Water Recovery System) using the LFTP (Low Flow Transfer Pump) to transfer the contents of one CWC (Contingency Water Containers) to the WPA WWT (Water Processor Assembly / Waste Water Tank), emptying them via a particulate filter.     [FE-5 set up CWC #2058.  Transfer time: ~4.1 hrs. Max. allowable quantity in WWT: 89%.]
 
Kuipers also conducted the periodic 2.5-hr. acoustic survey which is required once every two months in all ISS modules, taking sound measurements with the spare SLM (Sound Level Meter) after labeling it.  The subsequent data download to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) was a separate timeline activity.    [There were 36 measurements (6 locations @ 6 readings) in Node-2, nine measurement locations in Node-3.]
 
Ivanishin broke out and set up the equipment for another session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis, scheduled tomorrow for Anton, Oleg, André and himself.        [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s /special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]
 
FE-1 Shkaplerov deactivated the GA/gas analyzer (KM0305M1) in the Soyuz TMA-22/28S (#232) spacecraft, docked at MRM2 Poisk, and FE-4 Kononenko did the same in “his” Soyuz TMA-03M/29S (#703), docked at MRM1 Rassvet.  The GA’s were activated on 3/19.    [The GA’s are activated periodically to check the cabin air in the Descent Modules.]
 
Shkaplerov performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Anton also took on the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur)
 
Ivanishin &amp; Shkaplerov both underwent the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, Anatoly’s 2<sup>nd</sup> , Anton’s 3<sup>rd</sup>, spending ~90 min on the TVIS treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.        [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmember rests for 5 min., then works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h for 2 min, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h for 1 min, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace to 3.5 km/h].
 
Pettit &amp; Burbank again had a time slot reserved each for making entries in their electronic Journal on the personal SSC (Station Support Computer).     [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Before Presleep, Burbank will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Dan turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Before sleeptime, Oleg will set up the battery of the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment for overnight charging.      [By means of the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka-MV-Kosmos” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and SONY HVR-Z7HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #9, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]
 
At ~4:35am EDT, the three Russian Flight Engineers supported a Russian OPAO TV event, responding to questions from the participants of the Olympiad “Step into the Future, Cosmonautics”.    [From 3/19 through 3/25, 2012, Moscow N. E. Bauman State Technical University (MGTU), Special Machine-building science educational facility and Youth Space Center are hosting Russia’s science education schoolchildren Olympiad “Step into the Future, Cosmonautics” with the purpose of early career guidance and quality screening for University applicants with major in space rocket fields.]
 
At ~5:55am, André performed the weekly ESA crew conference via phone with COL-CC at Oberpfaffenhofen/Germany. 
 
At ~10:00am, Burbank held his the regular IMS (Inventory Management System) stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).       [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  Today’s exercise called for CEVIS.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day] 
 
After his T2 session, Burbank closed down the T2 software on its laptop for data transfer, then turned off the T2 display.
 
Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on the Allalin Glacier, Mexico, Darwin Island, and the volcanoes Cleveland, Stromboli, Mt. Etna, Hierro, Cordon-Kaul &amp; Karymsky,</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).</li></ul> 
Conjunction Alert:   New tracking has been received on Object 30595 (Fengyun 1C debris) with TCA (Time of Closest Approach) tomorrow, at 3/23, at 4:21am EDT, ~4 hours after ATV-3 launch.  Miss distances have moved out from earlier measurements, and the Pc (Probability of Collision) is below action thresholds at 2.1E-10.  If required, A DAM (Debris Avoidance Maneuver) would be conducted at 3/23, 1:49am 0.3 m/s delta-V.
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Victoria, Seychelles (World Capitals Collection Site: As ISS tracked SE over eastern Africa and the Arabian Sea, the crew was to look nadir on the far side of Mahe Island in fair weather.  Mahe Island is the largest in the group of three larger islands and numerous small ones.  The Seychelles is a continental fragment left stranded in the Indian Ocean during India's plate tectonic movement northeast towards Asia.  The rocks of Seychelles are extensions of major formations found in Zambia and South Africa.  Trying to acquire context shots of the entire city of Victoria), Lisbon, Portugal (World Capitals Collection Site: ISS had a late morning pass over the capital city of Portugal in good weather.  As ISS passed SE southeast over the North Atlantic Ocean, looking right of track for the great estuary of the Tagus River.  Greater Lisbon appears as the gray zone on either side of the estuary.  The city center is at the narrow, coastal end of the estuary. Bridges over the estuary may have been visible), Shortgrass Steppe, Colorado (Long Term Ecological Research Site: ISS had a nadir pass over this LTER site, which appears as a light-toned area.  Overlapping, nadir-viewing frames were requested.  The site lies immediately after ISS crossed the Laramie Mountains [separating dry interior valleys of Wyoming from the greener Great Plains].  Another visual cue beyond the target is the long green line of the Platte River.  The research focus is the effect of grazing on the extent and character of vegetation cover, which are in continuous change), Havana, Cuba (World Capitals Collection Site: ISS had an early afternoon, fair weather pass over Cuba's capital city of Havana today with its approach from the NW.  At this time the crew was to begin looking nadir for this sprawling urban area of 2.1 million on the north coast of western Cuba), and Kingston, Jamaica (World Capitals Collection Site: With a population of nearly 1 million, Kingston is the capital and largest city of Jamaica, and is located on the southeastern coast of the island.  In the Americas, Kingston is the largest mainly English-speaking city south of the United States.  Today ISS had a fair weather pass in early afternoon light with its approach from the NW.  At this time the crew was to aim towards nadir and try to capture the whole city in a single image).
 

