
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The crew performed the doff and closeout of the Blood Pressure 13-hour data collection sequence and stowed the hardware. The 48hour BioMonitor data collection was concluded and the hardware was doffed and stowed. Optical Tomography was also performed a subject. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate the data to multi-year missions, such as a potential three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
ISS Ham Radio: The crew initiated an ISS Ham pass with St. John’s School Authority, St. John’s, NL, Canada. Since the earliest ISS expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Multipurpose International Space Station Experiment-19-NASA (MISSE-19): Five Material Sample Carriers (MSCs) were installed on the MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT 2) in the Japanese Module. The MISSE-19 analyzes how space affects the performance and durability of specific materials and components. NASA research centers use MISSE missions to test new materials and material configurations. MISSE-19 includes perovskite-based photovoltaic devices, thermal protection system materials, additively manufactured electronics and sensor components, thin polymers, thermal control paint, and other materials.
Robotic Arm Repair Satellite (RSat): The LAB Camcorder was setup in front of the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Work Volume (WV) prior to RSat operations. The RSat demonstrates how a small satellite platform could survey and repair larger conventional spacecrafts on orbit. The CubeSat has robotic arms fitted with claws and cameras to obtain diagnostic information and is intended to operate while in constant contact with a host spacecraft. Results could advance the use of robotic assistance on future space missions.
Space Organogenesis 2: Seven Culture Units (CU) were placed into the Confocal Space Microscope and Fluidic Modules were replaced. The CUs were reinstalled back into the Cell Biology Experiment Facility – Left (CBEF-L). The Development of Advanced 3D Organ Culture System Utilizing the Microgravity Environment (Space Organogenesis) investigation demonstrates growth of organ buds from human stem cells in three-dimensional (3D) cultures in microgravity. Researchers plan to use these cultures to observe growth of the organ buds and analyze changes in gene expression. Cell cultures on Earth are limited to two dimensions but in microgravity, cell cultures likely can expand into three dimensions.
Systems:
Robotics Operations: Yesterday, ground teams commanded the robotic arm to stow the Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) on Express Logistics Carrier (ELC)-2 site 4, and unstowed the Pump Module (PM) from the Dragon trunk. After the Ground Teams extracted the PM from the SpX-30 trunk, the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) were moved to External Stowage Platform (ESP)-3. Today, the PM was mated to the ESP-3 Site 3.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain & Fill Handover: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into the Brine Processing Assembly (BPA) using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. During this activity, the new USOS Crew member was trained in this task.
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew transferred cargo from the SpX-30 cargo vehicle to the ISS. The SpX-30 Dragon vehicle arrived to the ISS on Saturday, March 23rd at 6:32 AM CDT and is scheduled to remain at the ISS until the end of April, before undocking to return cargo and payloads to the ground.
Handover of Increment 71S Crew: After the new 71S US crew member went through a small adaptation period, the ISS crew helped familiarize them with living and working on the ISS. Today, the crew began discussing hygiene operations, food preparation, tips and tricks for maneuvering around the ISS, the use of crew dosimeters, and how various tones and alarms sound differently on-orbit rather than in the Space Vehicle Mockup Facility (SVMF). All of these discussions are vital for the oncoming crew to properly adjust to life on the ISS and to learn from the experiences of the crew before them.
