
Payloads
Plant Water Management: The crew set up cameras, MWA, and the Sorbent Test Stand Kit for Plant Water Management (3&4) operations. The Plant Water Management investigation demonstrates passive measures for controlling fluid delivery and uptake in plant growth systems. Reduced gravity creates challenges in providing adequate fluid and nutrition for plant growth. This investigation examines using other physical properties such as surface tension, wetting and system geometry to replace the role of gravity.
Real-Time Protein Crystal Growth-2 (RTPCG-2): The crew performed Real-time Protein Crystal Growth Screening Plate Loading for B1 and B2 samples. Phase II Real-time Protein Crystal Growth on Board the International Space Station (RTPCG-2) demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity can sometimes produce high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 tests high-quality proteins crystals for detailed analysis back on Earth.
Ribosome Profiling: The crew removed the Humidifier 2 from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) IU Micro-G facility. Since life on Earth emerged about 4 billion years ago, living species have evolutionally adjusted to Earth’s gravity. However, how cells utilize gravity for their gene expression has remained largely unknown. The Genome-wide Survey of Translational Control in Microgravity (Ribosome Profiling) investigation aims to provide insight into how gravity impacts gene expression, with a special focus on translation regulation utilizing a state-of-art technique called “ribosome profiling”.
The ISS Experience: The crew relocated and configured the ISS Experience EVA Z-CAM in NOD2 for ground retrieval of data and diagnostics. The International Space Station Experience (The ISS Experience) is a cinematic virtual reality (VR) series documenting life and research aboard the space station. Filmed over multiple months, the immersive VR series documents different crew activities – from science conducted aboard the station to preparation for a spacewalk.
Thermolab: The crew performed an audit and checkout of the Thermolab hardware in order to verify functionality. Thermoregulation in Humans During Long-Term Spaceflight (Thermolab) investigates the thermoregulatory and cardiovascular adaptations during rest and exercise in the course of a long-duration microgravity exposure.
Systems
Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Oxygen (O2) Pressure Sensor Fault: Following last Friday’s installation of a new Catalytic Reactor, the WPA successfully completed a process cycle.  On Sunday, March 28, during the second process, the WPA faulted out due to a tolerance limit indication of the O2 pressure at the reactor inlet to the reactor water pressure.  A review of data by teams over the weekend showed consistent performance between the first run and second attempted run.  Pre-launch data was additionally reviewed and the performance of this unit was noted to have a higher O2 flow rate during acceptance testing, which would account for the higher pressure.  The limit is not for safety assurance, so teams agreed to a tolerance increase from 8 psi to 12 psi.  Following the uplink of the new tolerance limit, the WPA successfully completed a process cycle.  Review of data post-run, indicates pressure tolerance values continue to operate right at the original limit. The WPA continues to function nominally and teams will continue to monitor the system.
Joint Station Lan (JSL) Cable Routing: The crew continued routing of the new Gigabit Ethernet cables for JSL in the LAB. They routed cables from the Forward area of the LAB to Aft endcone.  Connection of cables will be performed later to allow for checkout of other systems due to vestibule jumpers being replaced, which carry other signals to other modules in addition to Ethernet.
External TV Camera Group (ETVCG) Disassembly: On Monday February 1 during the ISS Upgrades 2 EVA the Camera Port 3 (CP3) ETVCG was removed and replaced (R&R’d).  Today, the crew disassembled the ETVCG that was removed to prepare the pan tilt unit (PTU) for return.  The Color TV Camera (CTVC) portion will be trashed due to degradation in color output and intermittent iris issues.
Node 3 (N3) Aft Port Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Fan Cleaning: The crew cleaned the N3 aft port IMV fan and silencer inlets to improve airflow into BEAM. This is regularly scheduled maintenance.
Velocicalc Airflow Measurements: To support monitoring of the health of the ISS IMV system, the crew used the Velocicalc device and set of measurement aids to measure the air flow exiting outlets and entering inlets throughout the USOS modules. In addition to flow rate measurements, inspections were performed in N1, N2, N3, Airlock, Cupola, Lab, IDA, and BEAM.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last Friday, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Spation Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to start the MSS Applications Computer (MAC) Watchdog Timer Testing using the Cupola MAC Unit (MACU). Had a recurrence of AR 9879 while powering the Cupola MACU. Four SSRMS motion runs were completed with MAC without any Watchdog timer issues. During the first run, SSRMS joint 4 oscillation was observed but oscillations were within expected threshold. Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS back to park, MAC log files were downloaded and the MSS was powered down.

