
Payloads:
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance (GRASP): The first of three GRASP sessions in the seated configuration were performed by ISS crew. The purpose of the GRASP investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
Plant Habitat-05: Harvested samples were transferred into a Box Module within MELFI cold stowage.  Unlocking the Cotton Genome to Precision Genetics (Plant Habitat-05) cultivates several cotton genotypes that differ in their ability to regenerate into whole plants from undifferentiated masses of cells known as a calli. Cotton is highly resistant to the process of plant regeneration, making it difficult to engineer stable, reproductive plants that have specific or enhanced traits such as drought resistance. The investigation could provide a better understanding of this behavior and a pathway to avert this problem.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): The fiber optic cable spool and preform sample were exchanged and the ground initiated a run. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Veggie Monitoring: Photo documentation was captured of Surface Sampling. Culture-based Environmental Monitoring of Crop-based Space Food Systems (Veggie Monitoring) collects microbial samples from the surface of the station’s Veggie plant production system in conjunction with quarterly Environmental Health System (EHS) sample collection. Longer exploration missions require space-based systems for growth of plants, and this investigation is expected to help establish requirements to protect these systems, plants, and crew from contamination.
Systems:
65S Departure Preparations: Activities were performed to prepare for the departure of the 65S crew, beginning with transfer operations to prepack US items into Soyuz and crew departure preparations activities. The 65 Soyuz is scheduled to undock from the ISS on Wednesday, March 30th at approximately 11:30AM CT. 
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: Today, the crew set up the recycle tank to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
EHS Microbial Air and Surface Sampling: Samples for microbial analysis were taken from the ISS air and surfaces using the Surface Sample Kit (SSK) and Microbial Air Sampler (MAS). These samples will be incubated on media slides and in Petri dishes, giving medical personnel a gauge of microbial growth in the air and on surfaces of the ISS. The EHS monitors the atmosphere for gaseous contaminants from nonmetallic materials off-gassing, combustion products, and propellants, microbial contaminants from crew members and Station activities, water quality, acoustics, and radiation levels.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pump Separator Remove and Replace (R&R): Due to several check separator errors and slow startups, the WHC Pump Separator was R&Red. The WHC is a Russian-built system that has been modified to fit within a standard USOS rack. The Pump Separator uses centrifugal force to separate the air and liquid mixture that is drawn into the separator downstream from the Urine Receptacle. The Check Separator light is announced if a separator is flooded, dry, or times out.
External Wireless Instrumentation System (EWIS) Network Control Unit (NCU) R&R: As a corrective action for degraded NCU performance, an NCU R&R was performed in the Lab. The EWIS utilizes spread spectrum RF transmissions to transmit and receive ISS structural acceleration data and commands. The NCU sends data collection commands to various Remote Sensor Units (RSUs) and downloads the collected data from the RSUs to store on the JSL servers.

