
Payloads:
ADSEP-PIL-02: Fluid Loops were replaced on Modules A, B and C. In-Space Production Application – Pharmaceutical In-space Laboratory – 02 (InSPA-PIL-02) (ADSEP-PIL-02) aims to study the effect of microgravity on the production of various types of crystals. Understanding the effect of microgravity on these crystals may have important applications for research and development of products, including potentially improving impurity rejection and physical properties of pharmaceutical products.
Cardiobreath: BioMonitor hardware was donned and data was collected during a Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) exercise session. Astronauts experience changes in their cardiovascular, respiratory, and musculoskeletal systems during spaceflight, which can affect their capacity to exercise and to maintain blood pressure when standing after return to Earth. Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (Cardiobreath) studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight. Results could provide a better understanding of the mechanisms of these adaptations on long-duration missions and support development of methods for assessing cardiovascular and respiratory effects on blood pressure before and after spaceflight.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Cardio Ultrasound 2 Scans were completed in support of the CIPHER study. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate the data to multi-year missions, such as a potential three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Space Organogenesis 2: The Organoid Culture Unit was inserted into the Confocal Space Microscopy for imagery operations. The Development of Advanced 3D Organ Culture System Utilizing the Microgravity Environment (Space Organogenesis) investigation demonstrates growth of organ buds from human stem cells in three-dimensional (3D) cultures in microgravity. Researchers plan to use these cultures to observe growth of the organ buds and analyze changes in gene expression. Cell cultures on Earth are limited to two dimensions but in microgravity, cell cultures likely can expand into three dimensions.
Systems:
ISS Crew Orientation and Adaptation: Today, the crew had allocated time scheduled as part of the first two weeks after an Earth-To-Orbit vehicle has docked for the new ISS crew to adjust and adapt to living in space. 
Transfer Crew Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued transferring cargo between the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle to the ISS. The SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle is scheduled to remain at the ISS until late April before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground.
Sokol Leak Check: Today, the crew performed leak checks of Sokol Space Suits. The Sokol Space Suit [Сокол] is responsible for ensuring a safe environment for individual crewmembers in the event of a hull breach during launch, docking and undocking, and descent. The suit is a part of the crew survival equipment and, thus, is sometimes considered a subsystem of the Life Support System. 
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
