
68 Progress (68P) Undock: 68P successfully undocked from the Docking Compartment 1 (DC-1) port this morning at 8:50 AM CDT. This Progress vehicle will conduct Non-ISS free-flight experiments from April 3 to April 24. A series of burns scheduled for Thursday March 29 and April 2 will place the vehicle into the required orbit. The deorbit burn is scheduled for Wednesday, April 25th at 11:15 PM CDT followed by atmospheric entry and destruction. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Today the crew completed final preparations for US EVA #49 – Node 3 External Wireless Communications (EWC) installation, planned for tomorrow. The crew completed Pre-EVA health exams, final EVA Tool configuration, Equipment Lock prep, EVA procedure review, and conferences with ground specialists. Estimated airlock hatch opening is 7:10 AM CDT tomorrow.
Veg-03:  This morning the crew completed an audit of Veg-03 hardware in preparation for the plant harvest planned for April 6th.  The crew also watered the Veg-03 plants and continued with the photo-documentation of plant growth for the investigation. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets. 
Commercial Off the Shelf (COTS) Ultra High Frequency (UHF) Communication Unit (CUCU): In preparation for SpX-14 arrival, currently planned for April 4, the crew powered up and checked out the CUCU and Dragon Crew Command Panel (CCP). CUCU provides a command and telemetry communications link between ISS and Dragon during free flight operations in the vicinity of ISS. 
Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of 54S, all crewmembers participated in an Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review. Items of discussion included crew accountability, access to escape vehicles, and ISS Commander responsibilities. Due to the complex nature of emergencies in space, it is imperative each crewmember is fully familiar with the various emergency procedures and strategies in place.

