
Acoustic Diagnostics: The crew set up the appropriate hardware, performed the audio measurements, and used the EveryWear application to answer the questionnaires.  The investigation tests the hearing of ISS crew members before, during, and after flight. This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
Food Physiology: The crew participated in a briefing to discuss dietary details with Food Physiology team.  The Integrated Impact of Diet on Human Immune Response, the Gut Microbiota, and Nutritional Status During Adaptation to Spaceflight (Food Physiology) experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight.
Radi-N2 deploy: Following initialization by the Russian crew, the Radi-N2 detectors were placed in the COL1A3 location to begin this neutron radiation monitoring session.  The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Systems
Node 3 Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU)-2 Remove and Replace (R&R): Late last year, the Node 3 MCA Mass Mass Spectrometer (ORU 02) failed due to an Ion Pump short. Today, the crew replaced the Node 3 MCA ORU 02 with an on-orbit spare. Replacing the mass spectrometer recovers the Node 3 MCA restores the nominal USOS MCA redundancy.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Hard Upper Torso (HUT) Swap and In-Line Cable Voltage Regulator (ILCVR) R&R: Today, the crew performed a HUT swap on EMU S/N 3004. The R&R was performed to upsize the HUT from a medium (M) to an extra large (XL) in preparation for the arrival of the Expedition 63 crew. The XL HUT did not have an ILCVR installed, so the crew also swapped the ILCVR from the M HUT to the XL HUT.

