
Cerebral Autoregulation: The crew performed data measurements for the Cerebral Autoregulation experiment and closed out the hardware. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space.
General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER): The crew installed the tray and left vertical support into the Glacier 1 unit. GLACIER provides a double middeck-locker-size freezer/refrigerator for a variety of experiments that require temperatures ranging from +4 °C (39 °F) and -160 °C (-301 °F). The GLACIER is compatible with the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) rack.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #53 Preparations: In preparation for this Friday’s planned EVA #53, the crew performed the following:

Cooling Loop scrub on EMUs 3003 and 3006
Leak check and Secondary Oxygen Pack (SOP) checkout on EMU 3006
Tool config/audit
Photo/TV ops 

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Overnight and today, robotics operations continued to replace the 2A Nickel Hydrogen (NiH2) batteries with Lithium Ion (Li-Ion) units. Each Li-Ion will replace a pair of NiH2 batteries. The first Li-Ion battery was removed from the External Pallet (EP) Slot D and installed into the Integrated Equipment Assembly (IEA) Slot 1. Ground teams then extracted the NiH2 battery from IEA Slot 5 and installed the second Li-Ion Battery at that location. Finally, the third Li-Ion battery was removed from EP Slot F and installed in IEA Slot 3. Robotics operations will continue overnight to remove two additional NiH2 batteries. These activities are in preparation for EVA #53 to complete the 2A battery upgrade.
Battery Charge Discharge Unit (BCDU) 4A3 Trip Troubleshooting: Following last Friday’s EVA, Li-Ion Battery 4A3, with its associated Battery Charge Discharge Unit (BCDU), showed anomalous behavior during activation. A review of the 2A Battery discharge data found nothing anomalous to preclude continuing the 2A Battery replacements. On-orbit troubleshooting was performed to close the 4A3 BCDU Control Power (CP) Remote Bus Isolator (RBI) to provide backup power to the BCDU 2A3. Upon CP RBI closure, current flow coming out of 4A3 battery could be verified. Additionally, further ground laboratory testing duplicated the on-orbit signature. The team determined that there is no return path continuity to the 4A3 Battery, which indicates either the 4A3 Battery fuse is failed open and/or there is an electrical fault in the BCDU. The team is continuing to discuss the forward plan.
Correction to yesterday’s report: Zero-Gravity Stowage Rack (ZSR) Swap: The crew relocated a ZSR in the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) in preparation for the disposal of a to where the Resupply Stowage Rack (RSR) on H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) 8. was located in the PMM.  The ZSR will be disposed of on HTV-8. These activities are in preparation for rack reconfiguration plans for HTV-8. This move is part of a series of activities that will reconfigure and optimize PMM stowage by the end of the HTV-8 mission. 

