
ISS HAM pass: The crew participated in an ISS HAM contact with North Point School for Boys, Calgary, Alberta, Canada where students range from kindergarten to ninth grade. Questions involved astronaut training, the daily routine of an astronaut, and Extravehicular Activity (EVA) activities. ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units. 
Standard Measures: As part of the Standard Measures investigation, the crew completed their pre-sleep questionnaires. The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.
Time Perception: Using a head-mounted Oculus Rift display, headphones, finger trackball and laptop computer, the crew performed the Time Perception science sessions. A program on the laptop induces visual and audio stimuli to measure a subject’s response to spatial and time perception in a microgravity environment. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time is fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. 
EVA Preparations: In preparation for this Friday’s scheduled EVA today the crew completed the following:

Tool config
Suit IV briefing package review
Photo/TV camera config
Tool audit
EVA cuff checklist update

On-Board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization: The 58S crew completed this OBT to become familiar with the locations of equipment and positions of valves used in emergencies. During training crew members consulted with specialists at the various control centers and practiced communication from both US and Russian modules.

