
Payloads:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device Kinematics (ARED-K): Isometric Mid-Thigh Pulls (IMTP) were performed on ARED. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the ISS.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): Troubleshooting steps were performed on the lower CIR door fasteners in order to get them to close and secure the door. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Immunity Assay: Heparin sample collections were performed, processed and inserted into Reaction tubes for placement in Kubik incubation facilities. Other sample collections were placed in cold stowage. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in blood samples, with the help of a functional immune test.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham Pass was initiated with Second Chance School of Oresteia, Oresteia, Greece. Since the earliest ISS expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crewmembers 10 to 20 questions.
Sleep in Orbit: Upon crew wake, the Sleep in Orbit data recording was terminated, all hardware was stowed, and the EveryWear questionnaire was filled out. The earpieces were donned in the ears prior to sleep and data recording was initiated. The Long-term Sleep Monitoring Before, During and After Extended Spaceflight (Sleep In Orbit) investigation studies the physiological differences between sleep on Earth and in space using ear-electroencephalogram (EEG) based sleep monitoring.
Zero Robotics-Astrobee: A crewmember assisted operations by positioning the Astrobee Free Flyer in the JEM while the ground team conducted multiple gesture-recognition software test runs. For Astrobee-Zero Robotics (Zero Robotics), students write software to control one of the space station’s Astrobee free-flying robots. The first several rounds of the competition, co-led by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Innovation Learning Center, and many other collaborators, used an online simulation. Finalists have their code downloaded by NASA to the Astrobee platform and observe its performance. The experience helps inspire the next generation of scientists, engineers, and explorers.
Systems:
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning and Guide Vane Removal: The crew cleaned the Starboard (STBD) CQ Intake and Exhaust Ducts, Fans, and Airflow Sensors. While cleaning the CQ, the crew were also tasked with troubleshooting previously reported air flow issues in this area. To remedy the issue, the crew removed the STBD CQ Guide Vane Assembly and cleaned out the foam debris found inside the vent. 
Photo/TV D5 Camera to Z9 Camera Transition: The crew gathered and sorted the old D5 Camera systems before unpacking and configuring the new Z9 Camera hardware to be deployed in various locations around the ISS. Due to time constraints, the setup will continue at a later date. The D5 cameras have been the primary NASA-used camera since 2017, but due to their age, the ISS has now switched to the new Z9 cameras launched on NG-20. Some D5 cameras will remain onboard for legacy payload and EVA use. 
Robotics Operations: Yesterday evening, after the Control Moment Gyro (CMG) demate, which was completed to provide clearance for the Linear Drive Unit (LDU) transfer, the Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU) Flight Support Equipment (FSE) was demated from ELC2, site 1, and moved to ELC2, site 4. These operations were done to make room for the LDU at ELC2, site 1, and prepare for the arrival of a spare Pump Module (PM) that will be launched on SpX-30. Once the operations were completed, the ISS’s thrusters were reenabled and the Starboard Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ) and Beta Gimbal Assembly (BGA) 1A were brought back to autotrack. Part 3 of the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) Relocation Operations will be performed next Tuesday, March 26th. 
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: The crew supported the health monitoring of the IMV system with the use of a Velocicalc device and a set of measurement aids. The crew used these tools to measure the air flow of IMV outlets and inlets throughout the USOS modules. Not all planned measurements were taken due to time constraints, but the remaining ones will be obtained at a later date. The IMV system circulates air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that the ideal atmospheric conditions are maintained throughout the ISS.
