
42 Soyuz (42S) Launch/Dock: 42S launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome at 2:43 pm CDT today with Scott Kelly, Mikhail Kornienko, and Gennady Padalka onboard. Docking to the MRM- 2 module was completed 8:42 pm CDT with hatch opening at 10:33 pm CDT. Today’s docking increases the ISS crew compliment from 3 to 6 crewmembers. It also begins Kelly’s and Kornienko’s one-year mission aboard the ISS.
Payload Command Response Anomaly – On GMT 085 (Thursday), ground controllers reported issues with commanding to some NASA racks in the Columbus module.  Earlier today the team transitioned Payload (PL) MDM from PL-1 to PL-2.  This transition recovered commanding capability to all NASA racks in the Columbus module.  Ground teams continue to investigate cause of the anomaly.
Node 3 (N3) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Status – On GMT 083 (Tuesday), N3 CDRA’s Air Selector Valve (ASV) 106 was replaced. Yesterday during leak checks, Node 3 CDRA shutdown after ASV 104 failed to transition from position A to B. After a few unsuccessful troubleshooting attempts, ground teams decided to stand down on additional troubleshooting until today to give the valve seals time to relax after significant valve cycling during the leak check. Today, the valve is responding nominally and N3 CDRA is currently operating nominally.
Aniso Tubule:  Cristoforetti performed Run 10 sample preparations.  She injected water into the sample which was then inserted into MELFI. The Aniso Tubule investigation seeks to understand the mechanisms that plants use in growing stems of the right thickness to support them against gravity. Microtubules, part of a plant cell’s molecular skeleton, align themselves with the local gravity field and thus produce short, thick bodies in hypergravity. This research will germinate Arabidopsis hypocotyls in space and then use a fluorescence microscope in the Kibo module to analyze the directions taken by tubules in the stem just below the leaves of new seedlings. 
Gene, Immune and Cellular Responses to Single and Combined Space Flight Conditions-B (Triplelux-B): Cristoforetti performed Day 5 activities for the second run (1-g run) for Triplelux-B.  The samples were reconstituted with fresh medium then warmed prior to being transferred, along with reagents to their respective Measurement Bags and Internal Filling Bags. Measurements were started, then luminol was added and more measurements taken. The cells and reagents were mixed and bioluminescence measured. The Triplelux experiment uses the measurement of the reactive oxygen burst as indication of phagocytic (engulfment of pathogen) activity of the cells under spaceflight conditions. Bioluminescence associated with the phagocytosis of the particles were measured over a period longer than 3 hours and the photomultiplier count curves could be followed real-time.  Afterwards a cell sample was taken from the Cultivation Bags (CB) and mixed with a dye to perform viability testing using the BIOLAB microscope.  The results of both bioluminescence measurements and viability test are being analyzed and interpreted.  The science objective of Triplelux-B is to investigate and compare the ability of hemocytes (from the blue mussel) to kill pathogens under normal gravity and microgravity condition. The goal is to quantify the anti-microbial action of the hemocytes, using the chemical reaction that results in emission of light. This light will be detected with photomultipliers. The experiment might lead to a better understanding of immune system depression in spaceflight.
Stem Cell Differentiation Prep: In advance of the Stem Cell Differentiation experiment flying on 42S, Cristoforetti performed setup of the Kubik system. Stem Cells play a major role in the maintenance of bone mass, being the main source of osteoblasts during the bone remodeling and repair. The recruitment of an adequate number of osteoblasts is dependent on the availability of human Mesenchymal Stem Cells (hMSCs) and their proper response to growth, differentiation, and chemotactic signals in the microenvironment. This investigation aims to understand how human mesenchymal stem cells react to a two week exposure to microgravity in terms of growth, senescence and differentiation towards osteoblasts when treated with Vitamin D3.

