
New Status:
ENERGY Experiment: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn began Day 1 of this 10-day experiment by powering on the equipment and performing 4 sessions of metabolic measurements. A loss in astronauts’ body mass is a systematic observation during space flight. The aim of ENERGY is to measure changes in energy balance during long term space flight; measure adaptations in the components of the Total Energy Expenditure (consumption); and to derive an equation for the energy requirements of astronauts.
EXPRESS Logistics Carrier Fiber Optic Jumper Installation: Hadfield successfully installed the Fiber Optic Jumper to correct an onboard issue with the ELC High Rate Data Link (HRDL) interface to the Improved Automated Payload Switch (iAPS). A fiber optic power level test was requested by Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) to verify signal strength through the jumper. The measured reading was within the expected range. In addition, the AMS payload checkout and ELC-1 HRDL transmitter both indicate the jumper is functioning properly. This fiber interface was needed before the STP-H4 payload that requires a high data rate link arrives on HTV-4.
Express Rack (ER)-1 Laptop Computer (ELC) Troubleshooting: Hadfield completed today’s scheduled troubleshooting activities on the failed ER-1 laptop computer. He determined that the problem was the hard drive so he replaced the hard drive and swapped the T61p shell. Software upload is scheduled for next week.
Previous Status (3/26/13)
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last evening Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and the Crew unbolted and unlatched Dragon from the Node 2 Nadir Common Berthing System (CBM). Ground controllers then uninstalled Dragon using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and maneuvered it to the release position. After the crew released Dragon and it had drifted out of the Latching End Effector (LEE) cavity, the SSRMS was backed away from Dragon. Following Dragon departure, Ground controllers reconfigured the MSS for nominal operations and maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position. System performance was nominal.

SpaceX-2 Unberth and Splashdown:  After being released by the SSRMS, Dragon successfully completed the de-orbit burn, trunk separation and splashed down in the Pacific Ocean at 11:32am CDT.  Dragon was recovered and placed on its recovery vessel at 1:26pm CDT.  The recovery vessel with Dragon is targeted to arrive on shore Wednesday around 9:36pm CDT.
ENERGY Experiment: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn prepared for a 10-day session of this experiment starting tomorrow.  Today he set up the Armband Activity Monitor, a device that monitors activity and assesses energy expenditure.  The monitor was positioned on the right triceps muscle and will be worn for the entire 10-day measurement period, after which the data will be downloaded to the Ground. A loss in astronauts’ body mass is a systematic observation during space flight. The aim of ENERGY is to measure changes in energy balance during long term space flight; measure adaptations in the components of the Total Energy Expenditure (consumption); and to derive an equation for the energy requirements of astronauts.

