
New Status:
34 Soyuz (S) Launch and Docking:  34S launched nominally at 3:43pm CDT.  Docking to the ISS is scheduled  at 9:32 pm CDT. The Soyuz is bringing Chris Cassidy, Alexander Misurkin and Pavel Vinogradov to the ISS.

ENERGY Experiment: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn completed days 2 and 3 of metabolic measurements today due to sleep shifting tomorrow. A loss in astronauts’ body mass is a systematic observation during space flight. The aim of ENERGY is to measure changes in energy balance during long term space flight; measure adaptations in the components of the Total Energy Expenditure (consumption); and to derive an equation for the energy requirements of astronauts.
Seedling Growth Experiment: Last Thursday, Marshburn loaded four Experiment Containers (EC) for Run #1 of this experiment into the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS). Ground commands were then sent to supply water to the dry seeds in the cassettes. The seeds were kept at 1g with white light for 4 days to allow them to germinate and grow. On the 5th day, the EMCS rotor was stopped, exposing the seedlings to 0g, and at the same time, photostimuli (red or blue light from the side) was started and the response of the seedlings to these conditions were observed for 2 days. Today, Marshburn is scheduled to remove the ECs from EMCS, set up the ECs for Run #2, remove the cassettes, and insert them in Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). Run #2 will begin in 3 weeks. Seedling Growth studies the effects of microgravity on the growth of plants and is being performed on board the International Space Station (ISS) in collaboration with the European Space Agency. Images of the plants will be captured and down-linked to Earth. Samples of the plants will be harvested and returned to Earth for scientific analysis. The results of this experiment can lead to information that will aid researchers in food production studies concerning future long-duration space missions, as well as data that will enhance crop production on Earth.

High-Rate Communications System (HRCS) Ku Communications Unit Installation Procedures Review: Commander (CDR) Hadfield and Marshburn reviewed procedures and conducted a conference with Ground teams in preparation for installation activities scheduled to begin next Tuesday. The installation will be broken out over multiple days in a two week period.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) Remove and Replace: Hadfield removed and replaced the WHC UR hose and Insert Filter. Following the replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was performed nominally.
Previous Status (3/27/13)
ENERGY Experiment: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn began Day 1 of this 10-day experiment by powering on the equipment and performing 4 sessions of metabolic measurements. A loss in astronauts’ body mass is a systematic observation during space flight. The aim of ENERGY is to measure changes in energy balance during long term space flight; measure adaptations in the components of the Total Energy Expenditure (consumption); and to derive an equation for the energy requirements of astronauts.
EXPRESS Logistics Carrier Fiber Optic Jumper Installation: Hadfield successfully installed the Fiber Optic Jumper to correct an onboard issue with the ELC High Rate Data Link (HRDL) interface to the Improved Automated Payload Switch (iAPS). A fiber optic power level test was requested by Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) to verify signal strength through the jumper. The measured reading was within the expected range. In addition, the AMS payload checkout and ELC-1 HRDL transmitter both indicate the jumper is functioning properly. This fiber interface was needed before the STP-H4 payload that requires a high data rate link arrives on HTV-4.
Express Rack (ER)-1 Laptop Computer (ELC) Troubleshooting: Hadfield completed today’s scheduled troubleshooting activities on the failed ER-1 laptop computer. He determined that the problem was the hard drive so he replaced the hard drive and swapped the T61p shell. Software upload is scheduled for next week.

