
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate the data to multi-year missions, such as a potential three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Copper Anti-Microbial Prints (CAMP): The Manufacturing Device Extruder and Feedstock was installed in support of the CAMP investigation. CAMP, a collaboration of Redwire Space and University of Nebraska Omaha, demonstrates 3D printing with a copper-infused antimicrobial filament and examines whether antimicrobial properties of the printed components vary in microgravity. Results could help determine the potential for using this material and method for producing medical devices in space to support human health and performance on future long-duration missions.
DNA Nano Therapeutics- Demo 2: DNA Nano Therapeutics Demo 2 Mixing Operations and mix Nano Cuvette samples with water and mRNA solution and Sonication and Spectrophotometer measurements were performed in the Life Science Glovebox (LSG). Biomimetic Fabrication of Multi-Functional DNA-Inspired Nanomaterials via Controlled Self-assembly in Space (DNA Nano Therapeutics- Demo 2) evaluates the in-space manufacturing of nanomaterials that mimic DNA. These nanomaterials have potential applications for delivering therapeutics and vaccines and in regenerative medicine, but current manufacturing options have significant limitations, including high toxicity, low stability at room temperature, and poor biocompatibility.
Lumina (Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter): The Lumina experiment was setup via the EveryWear application to execute data transfer via SSC laptop. Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, high frequency wave photons and neutrons
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL): The CO2 Incubator Controller was installed into SABL-4. The SABL unit supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical, and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. The SABL unit also has switchable 28VDC and 5VDC power supplies for investigation use.
Thigh Cuff: Remotely guided Ultrasound 2 Measurements were performed with the donned Thigh Cuff. Microgravity causes fluids in the body to move toward the head, which can cause health problems including changes in eye structure and vision. Mitigating Headward Fluid Shifts with Veno-constrictive Thigh Cuffs during Spaceflight (Thigh Cuff) examines whether tight cuffs on the legs change the way fluid moves around inside the body. If so, the cuffs could serve as a countermeasure against the problems associated with fluid shifts during spaceflight.
Systems:
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued transferring cargo between the ISS and the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle. The SpaceX-30 vehicle is scheduled to remain at the ISS until the end of April before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
Condensate Grade Contingency Water Container-Iodine (CWC-I) Pump to Wastewater Bus: Today, the crew assembled, connected, and activated the Fluid Transfer Pump and transferred fluid to the Wastewater Bus. This assembly used condensate grade hardware, so the CWC-I was downgraded to Condensate grade. The CWC is a soft container with an inner bladder that can store a variety of liquids including humidity condensate, wastewater, and other unique fluids such as Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) wastewater.
Electrical Power System (EPS) Solar Array Voltage Maximum Power Test: Today, the ground team characterized Solar Array Wing (SAW) Voltage Maximum Power (VMP) by observing Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) performance during insolation when using different regulation setpoints per orbit. The goal of the evaluation is for the SSU to be controlling bus voltage to the desired setpoint, instead of being in charge reduction.
