ISS On-Orbit Status 03/28/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
Crew sleep cycle is shifted 4 hrs to the right to accommodate tonight’s docking of ATV-3 (Automated Docking Vehicle 3):
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>Today:          Wake 6:00am, sleep 9:30pm EDT
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>Tomorrow:    Wake 6:00am, sleep 5:30pm (return to nominal).
After breakfast, FE-4 Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  
 
For his on-going 4<sup>th</sup> (FD135) Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Alternate experiment, CDR Burbank reached midpoint at about 10:00am EDT, after which he began the second 24h data collection period.      [For the second 24 hr period, the Cardiopres was temporarily doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).  (ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.)]
 
FE-6 Pettit conducted Part 2 of the periodic personal acoustic measurement protocol, retrieving the crew-worn acoustic dosimeters of the SMK (Sound Measurement Kit) from the three 29S crewmembers and deploying them for static measurements in the station.
 
Later, Don Pettit worked in the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) on the Kobairo Rack, taking resistance measurements on the insulation of GHF (Gradient Heating Furnace) heating units with the MultiMeter instrument, i.e., checking for continuity..      [Steps included powering off the MMA TAA RSUs  (Microgravity Measurement Apparatus / Triaxial Acceleration Assembly / Remote Sensor Units), disconnecting a cable and detaching the GHF MP (Material Processing) unit’s front panel.  Later, in backing out, these steps were reversed.]
 
FE-2 Ivanishin &amp; FE-4 Kononenko performed the periodic service of the RS (Russian Segment) radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), collecting eight Bubble dosimeters (A41, A42, A43, A44, A45, A46, A47, A48) to read their recorded radiation traces in a special Reader.  Afterwards the dosimeters were initialized for new measurements, redeployed at specific locations and photographed.         [The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls.] 
 
Later, Shkaplerov &amp; Ivanishin had ~2,5 hrs set aside for inventorying, consolidating &amp; stowing computer network equipment in the RS, such as floppy disks, CD-ROMs, DVDs, photographs, and updating the IMS (Inventory Management System) concurrently.
 
FE-2 also completed the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.      [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]
 
In preparation for upcoming sessions with the Russian MedOps SZM-MO-21 ECOSFERA equipment, Kononenko initiated charging on the Ecosphere power pack (BP) and set up the Kriogem-3 refrigerator.      [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger, power supply unit, and incubation tray for Petri dishes, determines microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.  Because the Ecosphere battery can only support 10 air samples on one charge at one given time, the sample collection must be performed in two stages.]
 
Working in the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) on ER-3 (EXPRESS Rack 3), Don Pettit demated the BLB LSM (Biolab Life Support Module) O<sub>2</sub> sensor from the OHD (Overheat Detection System).      [To gain access to the rear side of the BLB Rack at loc. A2, Don first removed a SAMS-II SE (Space Acceleration Measurement System seat track device) from ER-3 at A1, then cleaned up BLB and removed stowage from the rotation path to allow tilting the rack away from the wall.  After the demating, the rack was rotated back to its nominal position and stowage &amp; other items were returned to their original places and the SAMS SE re-installed at the front of ER-3.]
 
Anton Shkaplerov used the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware at SM window #9 and the overnight freshly charged FSS photo spectrograph battery, taking pictures of targets along the flight track during a 30-minute segment, covering Gulf of Mexico water &amp; coastal areas; the islands of Cuba &amp; Jamaica; Caribbean water &amp; coastal areas (Venezuela); and Amazon forest (taking pictures of the most distinctive extensive forest canopy areas.       [The FSS (Fotospektralnaya sistema) consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module.  FSS includes the ME Electronics Module &amp; MRI Image Recording Module.]
 
Anton also conducted the regular transfer of US condensate water from CWC (Collapsible Water Container) to the RS (Russian Segment) for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, filling the designated KOV EDV container (#1000).  Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.      [Condensate was drawn from CWC #1039, then from #1065.  The 40-minute procedure is specially designed for gas/liquid separation, i.e., to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the Elektron’s BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.]
 
Anatoly Ivanishin completed a 30-min. session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining SONY HDV-Z7E camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the South-Eastern Pacific and off the Chile coastline, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.
 
CDR Burbank continued the current task of preventive inspection &amp; cleaning of accessible AR (Atmosphere Revitalization) system HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in Node-1, Node-2 and Node-3 started earlier by Kuipers (3/8) and himself (3/23).
 
Afterwards, Dan performed regular maintenance on the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment), changing out its UR (Urine Receptacle) hose and IF (Insert Filter), then vacuumed the entire WHC and cleaned it with disinfectant wipes.     [The old UR &amp; IF were double-bagged and stowed for disposal.]
 
Shkaplerov completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Anton also took care of the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
In preparation for the docking later tonight, the CDR closed the protective shutters of the Lab, Node-3/Cupola and Kibo laboratory windows.
 
Dan also powered down the amateur/ham radio systems in SM and COL to prevent RF interference during approach &amp; docking.
 
The CDR had another time slot reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on the personal SSC.    [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
For the following testing of the SM BRTK video system and MPEG2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) TV streaming video “scheme”, Burbank switched anticipated uses of wireless laptops to a wired SSC (Station Support Computer) instead, since the MPEG2 multicasting checkout causes transmission outage on wireless SSCs.  After the docking, the SSCs will be returned to nominal config. 
 
Starting at ~2:00pm, i.e., about 4.5 hrs before the docking, Ivanishin &amp; Kuipers tested the “scheme” for streaming MPEG2 video for ground monitoring of the docking via the RS1 laptop at the KTsP1 Central Post 1, and configured the MBRL (Proximity Comm Equipment/PCE) system for the approach &amp; docking.  After the docking, Oleg will deactivate RS1, and André will reconfigure the SM comm panels for nominal stage operations.
 
Since about 2:40pm, Oleg &amp; André are monitoring the approach &amp; docking of the European cargo ship, while Dan Burbank will conduct documentary photo/video imagery of the docking activities.  
 
Anatoly has 2 hrs reserved for another round of filming more “Chronicle” newsreel footage during the ATV approach &amp; docking, using the SONY camcorder, part of the ongoing effort to create a “Life on the Station” photo &amp; video documentary database on the flight of ISS-30 (“Flight Chronicles”) for Telecanal Roskosmos.      [Footage subjects generally include conducting experiments, current activities at the station, repair activities behind panels, exercise, cosmonauts looking out the window at the Earth, Earth surface, station interior, cosmonaut in zero gravity, leisure, life on orbit, personal hygiene, meals, station exterior, comm. passes with the ground, ham radio passes, station cleaning, spacesuits, space hardware, MRM1, MRM2, DC1, FGB, Soyuz &amp; Progress, intermodular passageways, meeting a new crew, crewmember in space, medical experiments, handover activities, crew return preparations, farewell ceremonies, etc.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]
 
ATV-3 docking is scheduled at ~6:33pm EDT.
 
Before Presleep, FE-6 will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Don turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Crew sleep will begin at ~1:30am tomorrow.
 
At ~12:05pm EDT, Don Pettit had his regular weekly PMC (Private Medical Conference) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4, FE-5, FE-6).       [FE-6 is on the special experimental PRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  Today’s exercise called for ARED+T2, with CEVIS following tomorrow.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.] 
 
Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo2">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on the volcanoes Hierro, Popocatepetl, Huascaran, Cordon-Kaul, and the glaciers of Patagonia;;</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo2">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo2">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).</li></ul> 
Conjunction Alert:  Flight controllers are monitoring a conjunction between the ISS and the TRMM (Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission) satellite (Object 25063), an active spacecraft, controlled and monitored by NASA Goddard Space Flight Center.  GSFC TRMM &amp; Conjunction assessment team are also aware of and monitoring the conjunction which has a TCA (Time of Closest Approach) on 3/30 at 2:12am EDT and a current predicted radial miss distance of 28.7 km.  Preliminary Pc (Probability of Collision) calculations indicate zero collision risk, but tonight’s ATV docking occurs about 31.5 hours before TCA, and will perturb the ISS orbit.    [Historical data for ISS dockings: Our 2 previous ATV dockings have imparted very small disturbances on the ISS, on the order of -20 meters of mean altitude change.  Other similar, recent, Russian vehicle dockings to the Aft ISS port also have an average change of -20 meters of mean altitude (3 events).  Should the perturbations from the ATV docking somehow increase the concern level of the conjunction, NASA will decide whether it makes more sense to maneuver ISS or the TRMM satellite.] 
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Central Cuba (Ecology Site: Ongoing research at Florida International University is seeking imagery to document and analyze land cover change in central Cuba.  Today ISS had a nadir, fair-weather pass in midday light over this target area.  As it approached the coast of Cuba from the NW, the crew was to attempt a mapping strip of overlapping imagery just inland along the coast from the Zapata Peninsula to the Gulf of Ana Maria), Kingston, Jamaica (World Capitals Collection Site: With a population of nearly 1 million, Kingston is the capital and largest city of Jamaica, and is located on the southeastern coast of the island.  In the Americas, Kingston is the largest mainly English-speaking city south of the United States.  Today ISS had a late morning pass over partly cloudy skies with its approach from the NW.  At this time the crew was to shoot just right of track and try to capture the whole city in a single image), and Kingman Reef, Hawaiian Island chain (Coral Reefs Collection Site: ISS/CEO photography remains a major component in efforts to map and monitor coral reefs worldwide.  This 4 mile-long, V-shaped atoll is located in the Equatorial Pacific roughly halfway between the Hawaiian Islands and American Samoa.  ISS had a mid-morning pass today in partly cloudy weather with Kingman just right of track).
 

