
54S Rendezvous: 54S, carrying Ricky Arnold, Drew Feustel, and Oleg Artimyev to the International Space Station, is currently conducting a 34-orbit rendezvous profile with a planned docking Friday, March 23 at 19:43 GMT (14:43 CDT).  All Soyuz systems are performing nominally.
Veg-03:  The crew watered the Veg-03 plants and continued with the photo-documentation of plant growth for the Veg-03 investigation. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets. 
Lighting Effects: A 53S crewmember completed a daily sleep log entry this morning upon waking to record his sleep patterns and wakefulness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights. 
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 49 Preparation: Today the crew configured GoPro cameras, terminated the final MetOx Regeneration cycle, degassed a Cargo Water Container (CWC) for Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) use, and terminated Battery Stowage Assembly (BSA) operations in preparation for next week’s EVA. Additionally, the crew completed a Robotics On-Board Training (RoBOT) session to review procedures for next week’s EVA.  
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  Yesterday, ground specialists began a Force Movement Sensor (FMS) fine characterization of the SSRMS Latching End Effector (LEE) A. Overnight during the test, a FMS Cross Check error was triggered requiring the teams to stand down for the night. The FMS characterization will resume later this afternoon after new parameters are calculated for the test. 

