
Payloads:
Cardinal Heart 2.0: A media change was performed for Samples 1B and 1A. A previous investigation showed that four weeks of microgravity exposure caused significant changes in heart cell function and gene expression that could lead to long-term damage or cardiac muscle atrophy. Effect of Microgravity on Drug Responses Using Heart Organoids (Cardinal Heart 2.0) uses heart organoids to test whether clinically approved drugs reduce these microgravity-induced changes in heart cell function. Results could support development of effective drug combinations to improve the health of astronauts and patients on Earth.
Life Science Glovebox (LSG): The front gloves were swapped out from the LSG facility. The Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crew members can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Rhodium DARPA Biomanufacturing 01: Science Chamber Sample 1 was removed from the Rhodium Variable Gravity Simulator facility and placed into cold stowage and Sample 2 was installed into the Gravity Simulator Facility. Efficient and Resilient Biomanufacturing in Variable Gravity (Rhodium DARPA Biomanufacturing 01) characterizes the effect of different levels of gravity on the production of therapeutics and nutraceuticals from bacteria and yeast. Prior spaceflight studies show that microgravity causes changes in microbe cell growth, cell morphology, and metabolic activity that affect biomanufacturing performance. Results could inform strategies to improve biomanufacturing in space and provide for humans on future missions.
Space Health: The Bio-Monitor garment was changed out as part of the 48-hr data collection session. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after a mission to the International Space Station to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. The Artemis analytical platform is used to provide automated analysis of the cardiovascular system in order to develop a near real-time assessment tool. The potential use of the Bio-Monitor system and the Artemis platform for future space missions is evaluated.
Veg-05: The plants growing in the two Veggie facilities were inspected, watered as needed, and photographed. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collection: The crew performed periodic Environmental Health System (EHS) water sampling by collecting water samples from the PWD for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water. The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. The post flight samples will return on SpX-27 for additional ground analysis. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water remains safe for crew consumption.
Transfer SpX-27 Cargo Operations: The crew transferred payloads from the SpX-27 cargo vehicle to the ISS. The crew will continue removing the more than 6,200 pounds of cargo launched on SpX-27 and then will begin to load SpX-27 for return.
