
Node 3 (N3) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Valve Remove & Replace (R&R): Virts R&Rd the N3 CDRA Air Selector Valve (ASV) 106. The R&R was scheduled due to telemetry indication that showed this valve was taking longer than normal to reach its commanded position, which is consistent with a valve operating under high torque conditions.  Following the valve replacement, the ground team attempted to restart the N3 CDRA.  During restart the CDRA bed 1 failed the leak check, ground flight controllers are currently troubleshooting.  The ppCO2 levels remain low and preliminary assessment is that CDRA is not required until after the arrival of 42S crew on Friday.    
Ocular Health (OH): With Cristoforetti assisting as the CMO, Virts collected retinal images using the fundoscope as part of the Flight Day (FD) 120 OH session. The OH protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines. 
Gene, Immune and Cellular Responses to Single and Combined Space Flight Conditions-B (TripleLux-B): Cristoforetti completed the first TripleLux-B runs (0-gravity) and initiated the second run.  The next Experiment Container (EC) Handling Mechanism (HM) was placed in the BioLab (BLB) glovebox for thawing prior to initiation of the run. TripleLux compares the mechanisms of vertebrate and invertebrate cells at a cellular level which causes impairment of immune functions in microgravity through induction of gene activation, phagocytosis (ingestion of foreign material), and DNA repair in vertebrate and invertebrate immune cells. TripleLux-B examines the immune function of the blue mussel (Mytilus edulis), hemocytes (cellular component of invertebrate blood), compared to rodent macrophages (white blood cells responsible for eating foreign material) to function in microgravity.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons 2 (RADI-N2): Shkaplerov handed over eight bubble detectors to Cristoforetti deployment around the ISS for the Radi-N2 experiment. This investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.  For each session 8 detectors are initialized and deployed in predetermined locations for measurements: a set of 6 spectrometric detectors and two control ones are placed on a wall of an ISS Segment. After 7 days the detectors are collected and read using the BUBBLE reader. 
On Board Training (OBT) Dragon Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT): Following yesterday’s procedures review and conference with ground teams, Virts and Cristoforetti performed one of three planned runs of Session 1 of the SpX-6 ROBoT training. The crew could not complete the other two planned runs due to issues with the ROBoT software. Ground teams are working troubleshooting steps to recover. Additional ROBoT sessions are  scheduled prior to SpX-6 arrival. This training allows the crew to practice free drift timing, malfunction response, and nominal rate approaches. 

