
SpX-30 Docking: Following launch on Thursday, March 21st, the SpX-30 Cargo Dragon docked at 6:32 AM CDT, March 23rd. SpX-30 was docked to the Node 2 Zenith port and has successfully delivered a plethora of science investigations, crew supplies, and hardware to the ISS crew.
71S Docking: The 71S vehicle successfully docked to the NM Nadir port at 10:03 AM CDT on Monday, March 25th following a 34-orbit rendezvous with the ISS. 71S launched at 7:36 AM CDT on Saturday, March 23rd from the Baikonur Cosmodrome with NASA astronaut Tracy Dyson, Roscosmos cosmonaut Oleg Novitskiy, and spaceflight participant Marina Vasilevskaya.
Payloads:
ADvanced Space Experiment Processor-2 (ADSEP-2): Three sample cassettes were installed into ADSEP-2. The ADvanced Space Experiment Processor-2 (ADSEP-2) is an automated multipurpose facility with three independent thermal zones that accommodate one cassette each and an internal computer that controls the functions of all three cassettes. Cassettes house and process samples for a variety of biological and physical-science experiments. ADSEP-2 can interface with cargo vehicles and EXPRESS racks onboard the ISS.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device – Kinematics (ARED-K): Six Multi-Use Brackets were retrieved in support of the next ARED-K Experiment session. The ARED-K investigation assesses the crew’s current exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the ISS.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): BioMonitor hardware was setup, donned, and the recorder was initiated for a 48-hour data session. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate the data to multi-year missions, such as a potential three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Human Brain Organoid Models for Neurodegenerative Disease & Drug Discovery (HBOND): Day 1 of drug injection and growth factor injection Media operations was completed for the eighteen HBOND sample chambers. HBOND studies the mechanisms behind neuroinflammation, a common feature of neurodegenerative disorders. The research creates organoid models of regions of the human brain that are affected by neurodegenerative diseases, using neurons and microglia derived from patient and control induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs).
Life Science Glovebox (LSG): LSG was deployed to support HBOND operations and a front glove swap was performed after the first media changeout operations. The LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crewmembers can work in LSG simultaneously.
NanoRacks Module-105: NanoRacks Module-105 containing 3 Space Pharma experiment packages was installed into NanoRacks Mainframe Alpha. SpacePharma NanoRacks – SPNR1 has two experiments, CUTISS and SuperSonic. CUTISS tests DenovoSkin, a bio-engineered human skin graft material to treat wounds in space, potentially benefitting reconstructive medicine on Earth. SuperSonic evaluates the impact of space radiation and proliferation of reactive oxygen species on human skin and tests whether an antioxidant, Co-Enzyme Q10 (CoQ10), provides protection from these risks.
Space Organogenesis 2: Seven three-dimensional (3D) chambers were installed into the Organoid Culture Unit (OCU). The Development of Advanced 3D Organ Culture System Utilizing the Microgravity Environment (Space Organogenesis) investigation demonstrates growth of organ buds from human stem cells in 3D cultures in microgravity. Researchers plan to use these cultures to observe growth of the organ buds and analyze changes in gene expression. Cell cultures on Earth are limited to two dimensions, but in microgravity, cell cultures likely can expand into three dimensions.
TangoLab-3: Mission-37 cubes were installed into the TangoLab-3 facility. Cube HIOR-EDU05 studies radiation effects on Fungus, compares fruit fly levels of iron from two diet plans, and measures the growth of cellular respiration of yeast in space. Cube QUST-NNL07 will test a variety of 16 different nano experiments. Space Tango’s TangoLab-3 locker is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development (R&D) and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS. TangoLab-3 is similar to TangoLab-1 with the primary difference being an upgraded fan system which allows for a greater heat rejection capability. This upgrade enables payloads with greater power draw and lower temperature requirements to use the facility.
Systems:
ISS Safety Briefing: After the arrival of 71S, all crewmembers reviewed the emergency responses, the potential hazards, and the locations of the emergency equipment on-board the ISS. The briefing is meant to give both the oncoming and the current crew a refresher on how to properly handle depressurization, fire, toxic hazard release scenario, or other off-nominal situations. The crew also discussed egress and safe translation paths through the ISS modules.
Russian Urine EDV Inspection: Today, the crew performed a visual inspection of Russian EDVs to identify any signs of leaks, air intrusions, or off-nominal pretreat quality. EDVs are intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. Imagery of the Russian EDV was downlinked for ground teams to analyze.
Station Support Computer (SSC) Relocate: The crew relocated SSC9 from the JEM to NOD2 to make space for crew campout. During crew handover, the returning crew members move out of their crew quarters prior to the vehicle docking to allow the oncoming crew to move into their new orbiting homes.
