
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Earlier today, the crew performed EVA tool configuration, completed training on use of the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER), reviewed EVA procedures, and had a conference with ground specialists.  These activities are all in support of the US EVA #49 – Node 3 External Wireless Communications (EWC) installation scheduled for March 29, 2018. 
Cell-Free Epigenome (CFE) and Medical Proteomics: Blood samples were collected today from two 54S crewmembers to support JAXA’s CFE and Medical Proteomics investigations. The blood samples were processed in a centrifuge and placed in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  Blood carries molecular signals released from cells inside the body.  For the CFE study, blood samples are collected from astronauts and cellular genes are analyzed.  The results provide insight into how human bodies function during space flight.  The Medical Proteomics investigation evaluates changes of proteins in blood serum, bone and skeletal muscles after space flight, and also supports identification of osteopenia-related proteins. By combining research results for space mice, astronauts and ground patients, proteins related to osteopenia can be identified using the latest proteome analysis technique.  It is anticipated that the use of the marker proteins related to osteopenia will be of benefit in the future for assessing the health of astronauts as well as osteoporosis patients on ground.
Veg-03:  Today the crew watered the Veg-03 plants and continued with the photo-documentation of plant growth for the Veg-03 investigation. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets.
Lighting Effects:  Today a 53S subject provided a sleep log entry and began a 24-hour collection of urine samples. The samples will be stowed in the MELFI prior to their return and analysis.  The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights. 
Lab Mass Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Status:  The Lab MCA was taken to ‘Operate’, followed by a Zero calibration, both Saturday 24-March and today Sunday 25-March.  In both instances, telemetry indicated the MCA has not completed the dryout process.  The Lab MCA has been configured back to ‘Standby’ to complete the dryout process. 

