
Intracranial Pressure & Visual Impairment (IPVI):  The crew obtained both front-on and profile view pictures to check for facial edema followed by a conference with ground teams.  Scheduled at Launch + 4 months (L+4m), the IPVI investigation studies changes to crewmembers’ eyes and optic nerves by analyzing arterial blood pressure and blood flow to the brain before and after spaceflight. The IPVI investigation uses non-invasive methods as compared to current invasive methods (spinal tap) to measure intracranial pressure.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #40 Preparations: The crew participated in a briefing covering the following preparations:

Crew member specific reminders
Suit specifics and refreshers
Key points in an emergency
EVA day procedure sequence
EVA day comm overview for suits
Hardware management

The crew is also performed the following:

Onboard Training (OBT) EVA Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session.
Verified Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) is functional prior to EVA.
Installed Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) in EMUs 3006 and 3008.
Verified EMU 3006 and 3008 glove heater functionality.

Environmental Health System (EHS) Surface Sample Kit (SSK), Microbial Air Samper (MAS): The crew pre-gathered items for MAS and SSK sampling planned for tomorrow.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday and overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off the Lab Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) onto the Functional Cargo Block (FGB) PDGF.  They then performed a survey of the Starboard side of 48 Soyuz (48S).  When the survey was completed, Controllers walked the SSRMS off the FGB PDGF onto the Lab PDGF and maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position.  MSS performance was nominal.
Tracking and Data Relay Satellite (TDRS) 275 Recovery:  Overnight, TDRS 275 returned to service for S-Band and Ku-Band. The communications satellite had been out of service due to timeout event which occurred on 3/16/17. The TDRS Network continues to investigate the root cause of the anomaly.

