
38 Soyuz (38S) Launch: Soyuz Commander Skortsov, Artemyev, and Swanson launched onboard Soyuz 38S this afternoon at 4:17pm CDT.  Ascent was nominal, but the subsequent DV3 burn was not performed as planned and today’s docking was postponed.  Docking is now planned for Thursday evening at 6:58pm CDT.  The vehicle is in a stable configuration and the crew is in good spirits.
X2R12.1 Software Transition: The transition to the X2R12.1 software suite was scheduled to begin shortly after Soyuz docking this evening.  Due to the docking delay, the transition is delayed to no earlier than after docking on Thursday.  Once installed, the X2R12.1 software will provide enhancements to the following systems: External Active Thermal Control System (EATCS), Radiator Goal Angle Calculation (RGAC), Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ)/Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint (TRRJ) and Mobile Transporter (MT).
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle/Insert Filter Remove & Replace: ISS Commander (CDR) Wakata performed a R&R of the WHC Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter. A functionality test was performed following the activity and all is nominal.
Robotics Workstation (RWS) Display Control Panel (DCP) Power Reconfiguration: Flight Engineer (FE) 5 Mastracchio powered the LAB RWS DCP using Utility Outlet Panel (UOP)-1 to ensure workstation redundancy during Space X-3 berthing. The LAP51A4A_A Remote Power Controller (RPC) 18 that nominally powers the LAB DCP tripped open on March 17 and cannot currently be considered a reliable power source.  The crew also provided a second grounding path for both the LAB and Cupola DCPs by routing a 16 gauge wire from each DCP to specified grounding locations near each UOP.  Successful checkouts of each of the DCPs were performed following the activity, and LAP51A4A_A RPC 18 was once again closed.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last night, in preparation for SpX-3 capture, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS on the Prime String, maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the Latching End Effector (LEE) Snare Cables Inspection Position and performed the SSRMS LEE, Brake and Joint Diagnostics. Controllers then powered down the SSRMS, powered it up again on the Redundant String and repeated the SSRMS LEE, Brake and Joint Diagnostics. They also verified visually that the LEE-A Snares Cables closed and opened properly. Finally, Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS back to the SpX Capture High Hover Position.

