
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE) Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-2 Test: Commander (CDR) Wakata set up hardware on the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) and conducted an ICF test using the ICF2 hardware. CFE ICF studies capillary flow in interior corners of vessels with various geometries. Structured inside tanks providing interior corners are used in the design of fuel tanks to promote fuel flow to the outlet of the tank in the absence of gravity. Experimental results will provide the necessary boundary conditions as a function of container cross section and fill fraction. The benchmarked theory aims to improve propellant management aboard spacecraft.
Node 3 (N3) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Leak Check: Flight Engineer (FE) 5 Mastracchio removed the duct located between Air Selector Valve (ASV) 103 and Bed 202 and performed a leak check on the duct with the CDRA Maintenance Adapter. This activity was part of troubleshooting steps to find the source of water in the Sabatier. The leak check successfully passed indicating the system has no leaks.  The CDRA was reassembled and reactivated.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Overhead Cleaning: Wakata finished cleaning the overhead CQ intake and exhaust ducts, fans, and air flow sensors task initiated yesterday. Due to the large amounts of dust observed during prior CQ cleanings, the crew removed all applicable panels to clean behind them.
Conjunction with Object #27391 Status: Ground teams received updated tracking data for a possible conjunction with Object #27391. The conjunction is of high concern, and ground controllers will be tracking it throughout the evening.  If a debris avoidance maneuver is needed, a Pre-Determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM) would be executed using 53Progress (P) docked to the Service Module (SM) at approximately 3:30am CDT tomorrow.  If PDAM is required, there would be no impact to the 38Soyuz (S) launch planned for March 25th.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) / Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Shock Treatment: Mastracchio performed a shock treatment on the WHC system by sending a pretreat and water solution into the WHC and UPA to eliminate bacteria and fungus believed to be causing gas problems in the UPA.  The shock treatment will remain in the system during crew sleep, and the system will be shocked again tomorrow.  Mastracchio also replaced the WHC urine filter hose and the EDV-Y to remove possible contamination locations.

