
54S Rendezvous and Docking: 54S, carrying Ricky Arnold, Drew Feustel, and Oleg Artimyev to the International Space Station, docked to the Mini-Research Module (MRM) 2 today at 2:40 PM CDT (19:40 GMT).  All Soyuz systems performed nominally.  After hatch opening at approximately 4:45 PM CDT (21:45 GMT), all crewmembers participated in an ISS Safety Briefing. 
JAXA Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) #14:  Following the docking of 54S, a crewmember will install two JAXA PCG canisters containing over 30 protein samples into the Protein Crystallization Research Facility (PCRF) in the Ryutai Rack. This 14th JAXA PCG experiment will run from today through removal for return on the SpaceX-14 Dragon vehicle. The protein samples were prepared by Japanese and Russian researchers from universities, national research institutes, and the private sector. The purpose of this activity is to obtain high quality protein crystals in the microgravity environment at 20 degrees Centigrade for about 5 weeks. The results obtained by this experiment contribute to the development of drugs for multidrug-resistant bacteria, Alzheimer’s disease, muscular dystrophy and periodontitis. They will also aid in the development of a blood substitute and biosensor. 
Wireless Sensor Network (WiseNet):  Today, the crew removed WiseNet sensors from locations in the US Lab, Node 2, and Columbus. The goal of the WiseNet technology demonstration is to establish the functionality of low power Radio Frequency networks within the ISS environment using low power sensor-nodes. These sensors form a wireless network on board ISS to monitor environmental factors such as temperature, pressure, and humidity. 
Lighting Effects: A 53S crewmember completed a daily sleep log entry this morning upon waking to record his sleep patterns and wakefulness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
NanoRacks Rock Candy:  The crew continued with the ongoing photo-documentation of each Rock Candy pouch, showing any visible sugar crystal growth in each. This investigation teaches students about the effects of microgravity on crystal formations using nearly identical flight kits flown and operated onboard the ISS. With access to crew member videos and data on the same experiment, students are able to compare crystal formations in space to those in their classrooms. The investigation aims to promote science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields to the next generation of students.
Space Headaches:  The crew completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation today. This investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improve the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Resize: Today the crew resized EMUs 3003 and 3006 in preparation for next week’s EVA. Each EMU contains exchangeable components allowing each astronaut to adjust EMU fit to their individual preference. EMU 3003 was resized for Ricky Arnold and EMU 3006 was resized for Drew Feustel.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations: Yesterday and overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm1 to grasp the Starboard H-Fixture on the Mobile Base System (MBS) and successfully completed the SSRMS Latching End Effector A (LEE-A) Force Moment Sensor (FMS) moment data collection on the SSRMS Prime and Redundant Strings, releasing and re-grappling the MBS H-Fixture in between. Next the SPDM was stowed on MBS Power Data Fixture 2 (PDGF2). Finally the SSRMS was walked off MBS PDGF4 onto MBS PDGF3 and configured for the start of US EVA #49 on March 29th.

