
New Status:
Marangoni Inside (MI) Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF): In preparation for the start of the experiment tonight, Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Tom Marshburn installed the sample cassette in the FPEF. The experiment will run through early July during crew sleep. Marangoni convection is the flow driven by the presence of a surface tension gradient which can be produced by temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface. The convection in liquid bridge of silicone oil is generated by heating the one disc higher than the other. Scientists are observing flow patterns of how fluids move to learn more about how heat is transferred in microgravity.
Coarsening in Solid Liquid Mixture 3 (CSLM-3) Experiment:  Commander (CDR) Hadfield finished run #5 of 6 runs scheduled for return on SpaceX-2. CSLM-3 is a materials science investigation that studies the growth and solidification processes (i.e., coarsening) in lead-tin solid-liquid mixtures that contain a small amount of tin branch-like (dendrite) structures, some of which possess many arms. During sample heating, the growth at the tip of each dendrite continues over time, whereas side branches, behind the tip, develop during constant temperature conditions. By understanding how temperature and time control the growth of such dendrites, researchers hope to develop more efficient and economical means of producing higher quality products derived from the casting of molten metals.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-C1 Experiment: Hadfield initialized an additional run of BCAT sample 5 and also photographed the BCAT-C1 hardware setup from multiple viewpoints around the experiment. BCAT-C1 experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions will have the unique property that the particles will phase separate (like oil and water) and the particles will self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light (like opal). Photographing these samples in microgravity allow the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. This study will allow the development of new insights into this important material process.

On-Board Training (OBT) Dragon Release Review: In preparation for SpaceX-2 unberth scheduled for next Monday, March 25, Hadfield and Marshburn conducted a robotics release review. This OBT included Dragon release procedure and a review of communication and back-away and departure coordination.
Previous Status (3/20/13)
Amine Swingbed Payload Review:  Commander (CDR) Hadfield unstowed Amine from its temporary stowage configuration inside Express Rack 8 and placed it in the payload’s double locker chassis. Then he re-assembled the payload in its normal operating configuration. This task follows Kevin Ford’s troubleshooting activities earlier this month when he replaced the Amine gear box.  The hardware is not yet ready for nominal use.  Forward work includes a software upgrade and a bed off-gas and leak characterization.
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-1: Marshburn placed oil dispensers and a camera in the Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC), mixed and installed the sample, and completed a session of this experiment. Advanced Colloids Experiment-1 (ACE-1) is the first in a series of microscopic imaging investigations of materials which contain small colloidal particles capable of remaining evenly dispersed and distributed within the material. This investigation takes advantage of the unique environment of the ISS to separate the effects induced by Earth’s gravity to examine flow characteristics and the evolution and ordering effects within these colloidal materials. Engineering manipulation and the fundamental understanding of materials of this nature aims to enhance the ability to produce, store, and manipulate materials which rely on similar physical properties.
Marangoni Inside (MI) Experiment:  Following yesterday’s core cleaning, Marshburn installed the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) in the MI Core and installed the MI Core in the MI Body. These checkout activities will continue through tomorrow. Marangoni convection is the flow driven by the presence of a surface tension gradient which can be produced by temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface. The convection in liquid bridge of silicone oil is generated by heating the one disc higher than the other. Scientists are observing flow patterns of how fluids move to learn more about how heat is transferred in microgravity.
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM):  Mobile Servicing System (MSS) software, MSS 7.2, includes new functionality for the SPDM Backup Drive Unit {BDU). Commissioning of this functionality is planned to occur in three phases. Overnight Robotics Ground Controllers performed the first phase which focused on hazard control functionalities. The second phase will focus on mission success functionalities and the third phase will focus on joint control. The 2nd and 3rd phases will be performed at a later date.


