ISS On-Orbit Status 03/20/10
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew off-duty day.  Today at 1:32pm EDT, we had Vernal Equinox.  With other words: it’s Spring!
 
  At wake-up, CDR Oleg Kotov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-4 again inspected the filters before bedtime this morning, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
  The three station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  As part of the house cleaning, Kotov conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and also Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).
 
  Oleg also completed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM &amp; FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.
 
  FE-6 Creamer took on a VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) program on the FIR (Fluids Integrated Rack).     [After configuring the US Lab camcorder to cover activities for POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center/Huntsville), Timothy opened the lower &amp; upper FCF (Fluids Combustion Facility) doors, translated the FIR Optics Bench out of the rack, rotated the LMM (Light Microscopy Module) Spindle Bracket Assembly from Operate to Service position for removing the LMM Optical Test Target from the LMM X-Y Stage and installation of the CVB (Constrained Vapor Bubble) Module onto the LMM X-Y Stage in preparation for module testing, and then rotated the LMM Spindle Bracket Assembly back to Operate position.  After closing the upper &amp; lower FCF doors, TJ turned on two switches, and notified POIC that the rack was prepared for command on RPC (Remote Power Controller.] 
 
  In the SM, Kotov completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  At ~9:20am, the CDR conducted a live ham radio session with students, post-grads, faculty and secondary school (No. 25) students at Kursk State Technical University, answering questions from the radio amateurs.     [“How do you see the future of cosmonautics?”; “These are the words in the well-known song about cosmonauts: ‘They dream not of the rumble of cosmodrome, they dream of the grass near their home.’  What do you see in your dreams on orbit?”; “Have you ever seen UFO or anything unusual in the window?”; “If given a choice of heading an expedition to Mars, but sacrificing your home comforts or your family, what would you pick?”;  “When you look through the window, do you feel like writing poetry about space?]
 
  CDR &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) on their schedule, via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Oleg at ~8:20am, TJ at ~4:20pm EDT.
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-5, FE-6) and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill ((FE-5, FE-6). 
 
 
