
38 Soyuz (38S) Status:  38S is performing nominally following launch yesterday afternoon.  38S was originally planned to dock to the ISS to last night following a 4-orbit rendezvous plan.  The Soyuz was unable to perform the DV3 burn at the planned time and the 4-orbit rendezvous was down-moded to a 34-orbit rendezvous.  Tracking of 38S shows the vehicle in the expected trajectory to complete a 34-orbit rendezvous.  The cause of the delay in the DV3 burn is under investigation.  38S docking is now scheduled for tomorrow, March 27 at 6:58pm CDT, with hatch opening at 9:40pm CDT.
X2R12.1 Software Transition Delay: Transition to the X2R12.1 software suite was scheduled to begin today but was deferred due to the Soyuz docking delay.  The transition is now scheduled for no earlier than post docking Thursday. Ground specialists are reviewing options for a new transition schedule.
Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device (SLAMMD) Session: ISS Commander (CDR) Wakata set up the SLAMMD hardware and then took body mass measurements for his fifth of six SLAMMD sessions. The SLAMMD hardware follows Newton’s Second Law of Motion by having two springs generate a known force against a crewmember mounted on an extension arm, the resulting acceleration being used to calculate the subject’s mass. The device is accurate to 0.5 pounds over a range from 90 pounds to 240 pounds.
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: ISS CDR Wakata removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides, which isolated the rack and allowed ground teams to start another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. The fuel mixture will consist of 25% Propanol and 5% glycerol for this test point with fuel droplets ranging between 2-4 mm depending on the Payload Investigator’s (PI’s) test matrix. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Water Container (EDV) samples: Flight Engineer (FE) Mastracchio collected samples from three EDVs that had been filled with Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) pretreated urine.  These samples will analyzed by ground teams following return to  help identify whether microbial growth could be contributing to the recent off-nominal performance of the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA).

