
Japanese Experiment Pressurized Module Inter Module Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning: Commander (CDR) Wakata temporarily removed the Starboard Forward Fan and IMV grills and cleaned behind them. Wakata and  and Flight Engineer (FE) Mastracchio then measured the air velocity in the JEM using the Velocicalc instrument.
Ice Crystal-2 Troubleshooting: During an Ice Crystal-2 experiment run on March 18th, the ground could not control the temperature in the thermo module, delaying further Ice Crystal-2 sample runs.  Over this past weekend, Wakata completed troubleshooting of the issue. Results indicate the Ice Crystal-2 experiment is nominal, but the thermo module is not operational.  Other thermo modules are available, and remaining runs can resume once a Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF) cable is delivered on SpaceX (SpX)-3.  SpX-3 is planned to launch this weekend.
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE) Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-2 Test: Mastracchio set up hardware on the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) and conducted an ICF test using the ICF6 hardware which contains a diagonal linearly tapered vane in a square cylindrical section. CFE ICF studies capillary flow in interior corners of vessels with various geometries. Structured inside tanks providing interior corners are used in the design of fuel tanks to promote fuel flow to the outlet of the tank in the absence of gravity. Experimental results will provide the necessary boundary conditions as a function of container cross section and fill fraction. The benchmarked theory can be used to improve propellant management aboard spacecraft.
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-M-1 Sample Installation: Wakata configured the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) in the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) for an additional ACE-M-1 investigation run. The ACE-M-1 studies the behavior of microscopic particles in gels and creams. Many consumer products are colloidal mixtures with stabilizers added to make them last longer.  Particles do however eventually clump together and sink to the bottom in a process known as coarsening which can spoil a product. The ISS is an ideal location to study the physics of coarsening which could lead to manufacturing longer lasting products.

