
New Status:
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last evening Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and the Crew unbolted and unlatched Dragon from the Node 2 Nadir Common Berthing System (CBM). Ground controllers then uninstalled Dragon using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and maneuvered it to the release position. After the crew released Dragon and it had drifted out of the Latching End Effector (LEE) cavity, the SSRMS was backed away from Dragon. Following Dragon departure, Ground controllers reconfigured the MSS for nominal operations and maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position. System performance was nominal.

SpaceX-2 Unberth and Splashdown:  After being released by the SSRMS, Dragon successfully completed the de-orbit burn, trunk separation and splashed down in the Pacific Ocean at 11:32am CDT.  Dragon was recovered and placed on its recovery vessel at 1:26pm CDT.  The recovery vessel with Dragon is targeted to arrive on shore Wednesday around 9:36pm CDT.
ENERGY Experiment: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn prepared for a 10-day session of this experiment starting tomorrow.  Today he set up the Armband Activity Monitor, a device that monitors activity and assesses energy expenditure.  The monitor was positioned on the right tricep muscle and will be worn for the entire 10-day measurement period, after which the data will be downloaded to the Ground. A loss in astronauts’ body mass is a systematic observation during space flight. The aim of ENERGY is to measure changes in energy balance during long term space flight; measure adaptations in the components of the Total Energy Expenditure (consumption); and to derive an equation for the energy requirements of astronauts.
Previous Status (3/25/13)
SpaceX-2 Dragon Cargo Transfers and Departure Preparation: Commander (CDR) Chris Hadfield and Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Tom Marshburn loaded five full coldbags and an active GLACIER with returning science samples into the Dragon vehicle forward rack, and at 8:25 am CDT closed the Dragon hatch. Afterwards they configured the Dragon Pressurized Segment for closeout by removing utility jumpers, and installing required hardware needed prior to Dragon Vestibule depressurization and Dragon demate. CDR Hadfield completed Node 2 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) Installation, which is required for Mission Control Center – Houston (MCC-H) to perform the Node 2 Nadir CBM preparation for Dragon demate.  Dragon is scheduled to unberth from the ISS at 6:06 am CDT tomorrow.


