
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2): The crew retrieved a donned sensor and handed over to the Russian crew for data retrieval. Another unit was also relocated to the crew quarters sleeping area. The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It has been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed to detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones): A crewmember performed the first session of Myotones measurements. Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation are expected to provide insight into principles of human resting muscle tone, which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions.
Cerebral Autoregulation: Today a crewmember took measurements for the 1st session of the Cerebral Autoregulation experiment. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. 
CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack): The crew swapped out the CIR Manifold 02/N2 bottles to support upcoming CIR Burning Rate Emulator runs. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity. 
Zero-Gravity Stowage Rack (ZSR) Swap: The crew relocated the ZSR in the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) to where the Resupply Stowage Rack (RSR) was located in the PMM.  The ZSR will be disposed of on HTV-8. These activities are in preparation for rack reconfiguration plans for HTV-8.
USOS Extravehicular Activity #53 Preparations: In preparation for Friday’s planned EVA, the crew completed the following:

Procedures review
Procedures conference
Tool config
EMU swap/water ops
Cuff checklist print
Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) review

Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance: The crew performed this scheduled maintenance to inspect the X-rotation dashpots, cycle the main arm through full range of motion and grease the Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (VIS) rails and rollers. The crew also greased upper stop catch plates and rack indicator catch mechanisms. 

