
Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) Adapter, Global Positioning System (GPS)/Wheel Demo Unit Installation: Peake opened the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Air Lock (AL) inner hatch and extended the Slide Table into the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM). Then, with assistance from Williams, he installed the EFU adapter to the Slide Table. The EFU adapter is a new type of facility platform that is used as an interface between JEM EFU and payloads. Up to 2 payloads can be attached to the EFU adapter by Inter-Vehicular Activity (IVA) in the JPM. Peake also installed the GPS/Wheel demo unit to the EFU adapter and retracted the Slide Table from the JPM back to the JEMAL.
Gecko Gripper Setup and Operations: Williams completed Gecko Gripper Force Gauge setup and data point collection. Live HD Camcorder video was used during the experiment to document crew operations. Williams completed the pull testing for all 5 grippers (2 small, 2 medium, and one large).  Williams noted that the large gripper was very weak and sometimes pulled off the wall prior to any crew-induced force being applied to it.  The payload developer is looking into possible causes for that behavior.  The Gecko Gripper investigation tests a gecko-adhesive gripping device that can stick on command in the harsh environment of space. The technology promises to enable many new capabilities, including robotic crawlers that could walk along spacecraft exteriors; grippers that use a touch-to-stick method to catch and release objects; and sensor mounts that can work on any surface and be reused multiple times.
Thermolab Instrumentation for Circadian Rhythms: Peake began the first of a three day European Space Agency (ESA) Circadian Rhythms experiment by performing instrumentation with the Thermolab Double sensors, mounting the Thermolab Unit in the belt, connecting and powering on the Thermolab Unit, before beginning a 36 hour continuous measurement. When the measurement was complete, Peake transferred the data and stowed the hardware. The objective of the experiment is to get a better understanding of alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights. Such knowledge will not only provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, but also has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest- and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions.
Marrow: Williams took breath and ambient air samples after waking for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Marrow investigation.  The experiment investigates the effect of microgravity on human bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
Dragon On-Board Training (OBT): In preparation for SpX-8 arrival currently planned for April 10, the USOS crew practiced capturing the vehicle. During the session, the crew practiced a 30 meter (30M) approach, two Capture Point hold runs and 2m runs. 
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CPA-CP) Maintenance: Kopra completed this routine maintenance to replace the battery packs in all CSA-CPs and zero calibrate all units.
Sound Level Meter (SLM) Operations: Kopra measured the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS including the JPM, Node 2, US Lab, Service Module and Functional Cargo Block (FGB), by taking sound level readings. The data was downlinked to the ground for analysis. 

