
Payloads:
ADvanced Space Experiment Processor-2 (ADSEP-2): A fluid replacement was performed on Modules B and C. The ADSEP-2 is an automated multipurpose facility with three independent thermal zones that accommodate one cassette each and an internal computer that controls the functions of the cassettes. Cassettes house and process samples for a variety of biological and physical-science experiments. ADSEP-2 can interface with cargo vehicles and EXPRESS racks onboard the ISS.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device – Kinematics (ARED-K): A science session was performed for ARED Kinematics. The ARED-K investigation assesses the current crew exercise programs to allow for the improvement of exercise prescriptions by conducting a biomechanical analysis of exercise on the ARED onboard the ISS.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The CAL Science Module 4 was attached to the Ion Pump Controller and power cables were placed into a powered stowage location. Multimeter Readings were then taken. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten-billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and can observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The 13 hour Blood Pressure recorder was setup with measurements taken at the top of each hour. The CIPHER investigation aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate the data to multi-year missions, such as a potential three-year round-trip to Mars. This data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support the development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Human Brain Organoid Models for Neurodegenerative Disease & Drug Discovery (HBOND): Samples were placed into the KERMIT Fluorescence microscope for imaging. HBOND studies the mechanisms behind neuroinflammation, a common feature of neurodegenerative disorders. The research creates organoid models of regions of the human brain affected by neurodegenerative diseases, using neurons and microglia derived from patient and control induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs).
Systems:
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew transferred cargo from the SpX-30 cargo vehicle to the ISS. The SpX-30 Dragon vehicle arrived to the ISS on Saturday, March 23rd at 6:32 AM CDT and is scheduled to remain at the ISS until the end of April, before undocking to return cargo and payloads to the ground. 
Loss of Attitude Control (LOAC) Roles and Responsibilities Review: The crew discussed how to recover Attitude Control or safe the ISS during an extended LOAC. The crew reviewed all parts of a LOAC scenario including each crewmember’s roles and responsibilities, and the related procedures. A Loss of ISS Attitude Control may be declared due to failures on either US Master or RS Master Attitude control. 
Environmental Health Systems (EHS) On-Orbit Sampling: The crew deployed two Formaldehyde Monitoring Kits (FMKs) in designated sample locations for post-flight analysis of on-orbit formaldehyde levels. The crew also used a Grab Sample Container (GSC) to collect instantaneous air samples for post-flight analysis. Sampling is performed every 45 days. 
Handover of Increment 71 Crew: After the new 71S US crew member went through a small adaptation period, the ISS crew helped familiarize them with living and working on the ISS. On the first day, the crew discussed the location of clothing, toiletries, ISS Medical Accessory Kit (IMAKs), and personal items. The crew also went over the use of the WHC and assigned Personal Breathing Apparatus (PBAs) to the new crewmember in case of an overnight emergency. Once the crew was finished, the ISS crew assisted the new arrival in the preparation of food and drinks in their new home.
