
Payloads:
Ampli Space Pharmacy: Ampli Space Pharmacy hardware was stowed. The Ampli Space Pharmacy investigation studies the properties of chemical reactions of fluids flowing through membranes in microgravity. Researchers can use resulting information to refine an existing organic synthesis and bioprocessing approach to produce new compounds. This modular approach could provide a way to make medicines.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF)-Meniscus: Tissue cassettes were inserted into the BFF for printing operations. The syringe swap, print operations and removal were aborted when it was discovered that one of the print nozzles was clogged. The clog was cleared and the BFF was setup to make another print attempt tomorrow. BFF Assembled Next-gen Development of Collagenous Allograft Meniscal Prosthetics aboard the International Space Station (BFF-Meniscus) evaluates the feasibility of using the BFF to print a meniscus. The tissue is printed using a combination of collagen and human allogenic mesenchymal stem cells and allowed to develop into mature tissue. Scientists evaluate the tissue’s mechanical properties and compare it to identically bioprinted tissues on Earth.
Cardiobreath: The BioMonitor wearable hardware was donned and acquired data during a Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation & Stabilization (CEVIS) exercise period. Astronauts experience changes in their cardiovascular, respiratory, and musculoskeletal systems during spaceflight, which can affect their capacity to exercise and to maintain blood pressure when standing after return to Earth. Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (Cardiobreath) studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight. Results could provide a better understanding of the mechanisms of these adaptations on long-duration missions and support development of methods for assessing cardiovascular and respiratory effects on blood pressure before and after spaceflight.
Life Science Glovebox (LSG): The Glovebox USB Camera was removed from LSG. LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crew members can work in LSG simultaneously.
Vascular Aging: Sample Collections Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Veg-05: The Root Mats were removed and trashed. The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-05) investigation is the next step in efforts to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space.
Systems:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Upper Stop Cable Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew R&R’d the right upper stop cables. Replacement is necessary when the cables have excessive wear and failure is eminent. The ARED uses adjustable resistance piston-driven vacuum cylinders along with a flywheel system to simulate free-weight exercised in normal gravity.
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew continued transferring science experiments, crew provisions, and hardware from the SpX-27 cargo vehicle to the ISS.
Network Attached Storage (NAS) Operations: The crew installed the NAS device in Columbus and connected it to the 16-Port Ethernet Switch for the initial configuration. The crew then performed the NAS device final install by disconnecting LAN cable from the 16-Port Ethernet Switch and connecting them to the COL Patch Panels. NAS is a file-level computer data storage server connected to a computer network providing data access to a heterogeneous group of clients. 
