ISS On-Orbit Status 03/23/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
 At wake-up, CDR Oleg Kotov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-4 again inspected the filters before bedtime this morning, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 FE-6 Creamer continued the new week-long session of experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), TJ’s third, transferring data from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 Before breakfast &amp; first exercise, Oleg Kotov &amp; Soichi Noguchi took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.  Afterwards, Kotov closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware.     [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).
 
 Kotov had another 90 min set aside tearing down and stowing the ASN-M Satellite Navigation System set up on 3/19, followed by data downlinking.     [The ASN-M will eventually be needed for the proximity operations of the second ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle), currently expected in December of this year.  The 2-day test of the ASN-M Satellite Navigation System was to determine the RGPS (Relative Global Positioning System) multipathing impacts of various SARJ/BGA/TRRJ (Solar Alpha Rotary Joint/Beta Gimbal Assembly/Thermal Radiator Rotary Joint) configurations and possible shadowing of the ASN-M antennas which are used for ATV dockings, ahead of ATV-2 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 2) later this year.] 
 
 Later, FE-5 Noguchi &amp; FE-6 Creamer undertook the periodic US PHS (Periodic Health Status)/Without Blood Labs exam, assisting each other in turn as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  Soichi later logged the data and stowed the equipment.  A subjective evaluation was part of the test.    [The assessment used the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data were then logged on the MEC and the hardware stowed.  The PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software on the MEC laptop.]
 
 For the upcoming 19A docked period, the three crewmembers joined to review an uplinked transfer/stowage list of cargo transfers from the MPLM (Multi-Purpose Logistics Module) to the ISS, then conducted a teleconference with the ground to discuss particulars.
 
 Both Soichi &amp; Timothy also had time set aside for more 19A return cargo gathering and pre-packing for MPLM stowage.
 
 CDR Kotov set up the hardware of the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment at SM window #9 for another experiment run, charging the battery for the SONY HVR-Z1J camcorder, then recording the planned GFI-1 activities, supported by ground specialist tagup.  The gear was then closed out and removed.    [Using the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #9, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]
 
 Closing out the acoustic measurement session started yesterday on the three crewmembers wearing individual dosimeters, Creamer collected the data from all dosimeters and downloaded them on a T61p laptop for ground access.
 
 In the US A/L (Airlock), TJ set up the video equipment to allow ground monitoring of METOX (Metal Oxide) regeneration, then initiated regeneration of the last METOX canister (#20) in the bake-out oven.    [Current data indicate that the regenerator heater is functioning properly.  The next leading theory for the unsuccessful regenerations is that perhaps one or more of the METOX O-ring seals were unseated when the canisters were installed in the oven, letting hot air into the oven rather than through the canisters.  Today’s regeneration is intended to test the theory, if necessary with a check of the O-rings and restart of the regeneration if the heater is cycled off prematurely again.]
 
 Working in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Noguchi moved equipment items, consolidating ESA CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) so as to free space for stowing cargo to be unloaded from Progress M-04M/36P.
 
 In the SM, Kotov did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS).    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 The CDR also conducted functional tests of the Klest KL-103Ts television camera system, first in the SM, then in the MRM2 “Poisk”.  Activation of the camera system was by KRL Command Radio Link from the ground.
 
 Noguchi closed the protective shutters of the Lab, Kibo and Cupola windows in preparation for tomorrow’s ISS reboost with Progress thrusters. The reboost is scheduled at 5:33am EDT.
 
 Servicing the APEX (Advanced Plant Experiments on Orbit-Cambium) science payload, FE-6 inserted its RNALater KFTs (Kennedy Fixation Tubes) in MELFI-2 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 2), Dewar 2, Tray A, Section 3-4.
 
 Creamer also performed the periodic status check on the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge, looking for any internal condensation moisture which would require replacing desiccants.    [MERLIN, the Galley fridge, is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.  TJ found some moisture, a change-out of the desiccant will be scheduled in the next few days.]
 
 Afterwards, working at ESA’s EDR (European Drawer Rack), TJ had about an hour to prepare the new KUBIK 6 incubator for the commissioning of the KUBIK 6 Drawer by installing the centrifuge insert with its e-box (Electronic Box) in KUBIK 6.
 
 CDR &amp; FE-6 had their periodic PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, TJ at ~1:35pm, Oleg at ~4:30pm EDT.
 
 Soichi donned the Glenn treadmill harness with installed transducer instrumentation (first time for him), then activated the harness for his exercise run on the T2 treadmill.     [Afterwards, FE-5 downloaded the harness data and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).]
 
 The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).  TVIS continues to be down.
 
 At 2:50pm, Creamer conducted the periodic VHF-1 emergency communications proficiency check over NASA’s VHF (Very High Frequency) stations, today at the Dryden VHF site (2:55pm-3:02pm), talking with Houston/Capcom, MSFC/PAYCOM (Payload Operation &amp; Integration Center Communicator), Moscow/GLAVNI (TsUP Capcom), EUROCOM/Munich and JCOM/Tsukuba in the normal fashion via VHF radio from a handheld microphone and any of the USOS ATUs (Audio Terminal Units).     [Purpose of the test is to verify signal reception and link integrity, improve crew proficiency, and ensure minimum required link margin during emergency (no TDRS) and special events (such as a Soyuz relocation).]
 
 Shortly before sleep time, Oleg will set up the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his third experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 WPA Failure:   The Water Processor Assembly suffered a failure yesterday due to a temperature fault related to a catalyst reactor.  The discrepancy could be a result of a large amount of cold water through the system.  The crew is currently collecting water in the waste water bus and not processing WPA.  Therefore, if WPA is not recovered in the next day, the water will have to be put in other containers.
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Doha, Qatar (ISS had a mid-morning pass in fair weather over this target.  As the crew approached the coast of the Persian Gulf from the SW, they were to look nadir for the capital city of Qatar.  Doha with a population of over a million is located on the east coast of the peninsula comprising Qatar), Amman, Jordan (this capital city of about 2 million is located in the hills of northwestern Jordan and less than 40 miles northeast of the Dead Sea.   As the crew tracked northeastward in clear weather over the Sinai Peninsula, the were to begin looking toward the rift valley of the Dead Sea and then nadir in late-morning light for this low-contrast target), Baku, Azerbaijan (the capital city of Azerbaijan is located in the extreme eastern part of the country and situated on the south side of the Abseron Peninsula which juts into the southeastern Caspian Sea.   ISS approached from the SW in late morning with fair weather.  The crew was to look nadir for this city of over 2 million), Tripoli, Libya (this capital city of 1.69 million has been occupied since its founding in the 7<sup>th</sup> century BC.  It lies on a gentle bulge in the Libyan coastline.  As the crew approached the Mediterranean coast from the SW at late-morning in fair weather, they should have found this low-contrast target right on the coast at nadir), Paramaribo, Suriname (ISS had a mid-morning pass in partly cloudy weather over the capital and largest city of Suriname.  This city of about one quarter of a million is located on the banks of the Suriname River approximately 15 km inland from the Atlantic Ocean.  Looking near-nadir as the station approached the coast), and Brent Impact Crater, Ontario, Canada (this target is located in southeastern Ontario and just east of Lake Huron and Georgian Bay.  ISS approach was at midday from the SW in fair weather.  Brent impact crater is 3.8 kilometers in diameter and is one of the older craters, dated at approximately 396 million years.  As with many craters in Canada, this one is highlighted by lakes that partially fill the crater.  Looking right of nadir using the long lens settings.  Recent satellite imagery suggests that there may still be ice on the lakes in this area).
 
 
