
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL): The crew opened the Gas Supply Drawer valve on the Material Science Research Rack (MSRR)/MSL which is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. The MSL can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules. In this way, many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
Two-Phase Flow: The crew altered the valve settings for the Two Phase Flow-2 experiment. The valve setting has been changed to configuration of Low-mode (pump) of the Metal Heated Tube (MHT). Several  runs of TPF experiment will be performed with this configuration. The Two-Phase Flow experiment investigates the heat transfer characteristics of flow boiling in the microgravity environment. This experiment provides a fundamental understanding of the behaviors of bubble formation, liquid-vapor flow in a tube, and how heat is transferred in cooling systems.
71 Progress ISS Reboost: On Saturday, ISS completed a 5 minute 42 second reboost using 71P thrusters. The purpose of the reboost was to start phasing for 72P rendezvous and docking in April and increase the ISS velocity by 0.685 meters per second (m/s).    
LAB Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Failure: The LAB CDRA failed last Friday.  Troubleshooting was unsuccessful so N3 CDRA and Amine Swingbed were activated to account for the additional CO2 produced during the Metal Oxide (METOX) regen. Teams agreed the failure signature was an Air Selector Valve 4 (ASV104) failure. Today the crew performed an ASV104 R&R to recover the unit.
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #53 Preparations: In preparation for this Friday’s planned EVA, today the crew performed the following:

Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) powered hardware checkout
GoPRO camera setup
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) METOX/Lithium Hydroxide (LiOH)/ battery replacement
EVA suit intravehicular (IV) review


