
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections: Kelly performed a suite of blood and saliva collections for the Microbiome, Salivary Markers, and Twins Study experiments.  He collected saliva and placed the collections into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for a week in support of Microbiome and Salivary markers.  Today’s blood collection satisfies both the Flight Day 7 (FD7) and FD10 requirements for both experiments. 

Salivary Markers experiment aims to identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system. Maintaining a robust immune system during prolonged spaceflight missions is important to ensure mission success. If any impairment in immunity is found due to spaceflight, this will allow the development of appropriate countermeasures to help mitigate the risks. 
The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).

Gene, Immune and Cellular Responses to Single and Combined Space Flight Conditions-B (Triplelux-B): Following the successful completion of the Triplelux-B experiment, Cristoforetti removed the Biolab video tape, uninstalled the Automatic Ambient Stowage (AAS), and the Experiment Containers (ECs) from the Biolab facility.  The video tape will be returned for ground analysis.  Biolab will be configured for Triplelux-A which flies on SpaceX-6 launching next week. The objective of Triplelux-A is to investigate and compare the ability of hemocytes (from the blue mussel) to kill pathogens under normal gravity and microgravity condition. The goal is to quantify the anti-microbial action of the hemocytes, using the chemical reaction that results in emission of light. This light will be detected with photomultipliers. The experiment might lead to a better understanding of immune system depression in spaceflight.
Image Processing Unit (IPU) Hard Disk Drive (HDD) Remove and Replace (R&R): Cristoforetti R&Rd the IPU in the Ryutai Rack.  On GMT 84 (March 25, 2015) Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) ground controllers encountered a problem downloading Dynamic Surf-2 images. Initial troubleshooting steps included rebooting the hardware and rack. Ground teams are evaluating the status of the R&R and will have more data by GMT 92 (April 2). 
Aniso Tubule: Cristoforetti retrieved the Aniso Tubule from the +4°C MELFI drawer and initiated a light treatment, exposing the sample to the cabin’s ambient light environment.  She then inserted the Aniso sample into the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF). The Aniso Tubule investigation seeks to understand the mechanisms that plants use in growing stems of the right thickness to support them against gravity. Microtubules, part of a plant cell’s molecular skeleton, align themselves with the local gravity field and thus produce short, thick bodies in hypergravity. This research will germinate Arabidopsis hypocotyls in space and then use a fluorescence microscope in the Kibo module to analyze the directions taken by tubules in the stem just below the leaves of new seedlings.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons 2 (RADI-N2):  Cristoforetti collected the eight neutron bubble detectors and returned them to Shkaplerov. This investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.  For each session 8 detectors are initialized and deployed in predetermined locations for measurements: a set of 6 spectrometric detectors and two control ones are placed on a wall in the ISS Segment. After 7 days the detectors are collected and read using the BUBBLE reader.
Node 3 (N3) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Status: Yesterday N3 CDRA shut down when Air Selector Valve (ASV)104 failed to transition from position A to B. Attempts to manually command the valve were unsuccessful. The Ground ran an Active Cool Down procedure for 30 minutes. ASV104 is now responding to commands and nominal N3 CDRA operations have been resumed. 
On-Board Training (OBT): Virts and the newly arrived 42S crew reviewed portable emergency equipment locations for gas masks and fire extinguishers. When finished, they demonstrated/evaluated the ability to communicate with Mission Control Centers (MCC) while wearing emergency masks.
SpaceX-6 (SpX-6) Preparation:  In preparation for SpX-6 launch scheduled for April 13, Robotics Ground Controllers are currently performing a Mobile Transporter (MT) translate from Work Site (WS) 2 to WS4. 

