
1-Year Mission (1YM) Human Research Program (HRP) Science Operations: Kelly and Kornienko began their 1YM activities on Sunday when both crewmembers performed their first Fine Motor Skills test and Sleep log entries. Today they continued with their 1YM protocols, performing another Sleep Log and a morning Reaction Self Test.  The crew performed a second Reaction Self Test prior to their scheduled sleep period.  In the Fine Motor Skills experiment, crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS.  Reaction Self Test is a portable, five-minute task that enables astronauts to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while in space. Sleep restrictions and residual effects from sleep medications, slam shifts that change the sleep/wake cycle, and effects from spacewalks can cause fatigue and degrade astronaut performance. Periodically during the mission, and in association with major events, an astronaut performs a reaction-time test on a computer to measure changes in responses.
Twins Study Collections: Kelly completed saliva collections and inserted them into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  Twins Study is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple PI’s at multiple centers.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to observe the effects of space travel on identical twins, one of whom experiences space travel for one year; the other is earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
Area Passive Dosimeter for Life-Science Experiments in Space (PADLES): On Sunday, Virts deployed the seventeen PADLES delivered on 42S throughout the ISS. JAXA Area PADLES is an investigation that uses area dosimeters to continuously monitor the radiation dose aboard the ISS. Radiation exposure can have significant biological effects on living organisms including the biological investigations being done on ISS in the Japanese Experiment Module, Kibo. By installing area dosimeters at 17 fixed locations inside the Kibo Module, continuous area radiation monitoring can be provided throughout the ISS Kibo program.
Stem Cell Differentiation (SCD): On Sunday, Cristoforetti retrieved the SCD experiment from 42S and installed it into the Kubik-3 container.  SCD will run autonomously for 14 days with Cristoforetti performing regular status checks for the duration of the experiment.  Stem Cells play a major role in the maintenance of bone mass, being the main source of osteoblasts during the bone remodeling and repair. The recruitment of an adequate number of osteoblasts is dependent on the availability of human Mesenchymal Stem Cells (hMSCs) and their proper response to growth, differentiation, and chemotactic signals in the microenvironment. This investigation aims to understand how human mesenchymal stem cells react to a two week exposure to microgravity in terms of growth, senescence and differentiation towards osteoblasts when treated with Vitamin D3.
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2: Last week, Virts changed out the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) manifold bottle in advance of this week’s FLEX-2 run.  Today, he removed the CIR alignment guides to configure the CIR for microgravity operations.  FLEX-2 Binary will run via ground commanding overnight and Virts will reinstall the alignment guides tomorrow.  This session of FLEX-2 investigates the extinguishment properties of a binary fuel set of heptane and ethanol. The FLEX-2 experiment is the second to fly on the ISS which uses small droplets of fuel to study the special spherical characteristics of burning fuel droplets in space. The experiment studies how quickly fuel burns, the conditions required for soot to form, and how mixtures of fuels evaporate before burning. Understanding these processes could lead to the production of a safer spacecraft as well as increased fuel efficiency for engines using liquid fuel on Earth.
Habitability: Kelly reviewed the Habitability overview videos, then used the iShort application on the iPad to document his initial feelings on the habitability of the ISS.  Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations such as Near Earth Asteroids (NEA) and Mars. The ultimate goal is to understand how much habitable volume is required for vehicle internal design and layout, and if mission duration impacts the volume needed. Observations during the 1-year mission, as well as 6-month missions, can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.  The iShort application enables ground support teams and human factor engineers to study and evaluate the design of the ISS and use the results for future spacecraft.
Factors Contributing to Food Acceptability and Consumption, Mood and Stress on Long-Term Space Missions (Astro Palate): Virts performed Part B Day 3 of the Astro Palate experiment.  For this session, he ate his lunch alone, then completed a questionnaire before and after his midday meal. Astro Palate studies the relationship among emotions, mood, stress and eating during spaceflight. The study explores ways to minimize stressful aspects of the eating situation so that individuals consume more food and are more satisfied with the food. Additionally, the experiment examines ways to use the eating itself to reduce the stress or negative moods that crewmembers might normally experience in flight.
Node3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA): The Remote Power Controller (RPC) that controls the Node3 CDRA tripped during the crew day today.  Initial recovery steps were unsuccessful.  Ground teams are evaluating when Lab CDRA will need to be powered up.
Airlock Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) Remove and Replace: On March 8, the RPC that controls Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Temperature Control Check Valve (TCCV) tripped followed by a Power On Reset (POR). All loads were recovered except RPC5 which was hard failed. Virts R&Rd RPCM AL2A3B_B which restored power to the CCAA TCCV.
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of 42S, today all 6 crew members reviewed emergency general instructions and discussed emergency responses.

