
EXpedite PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack Locker Relocation: Following the successful completion of the Rodent Research-4 experiment during SpaceX-10, this morning the crew reconfigured EXPRESS Racks 1 and 2 to their nominal configuration for upcoming payload operations. 
Programmable Isolation Mount (PIM): The crew installed the PIM into EXPRESS Rack 7 in the US Lab. The Controlled Dynamics Locker (CDL) is an EXPRESS locker insert with a programmable isolation mount inside. The research experiment is mounted to the isolated platform interface inside the locker insert. The isolation platform provides the research experiment with a broadband acceleration environment below 10µg-rms from 0.01Hz to 200Hz on ISS. It also allows for programmable variations of that dynamic acceleration environment independently in each axis. Microgravity research in areas such as protein crystal growth, fluid physics, plant biology and horticulture, stem cell research, cell/tissue culturing and other microstructure studies focusing on the intricacies of cell functioning and mechanisms would benefit from utilizing the customizable features of the PIM.
Manufacturing Device (MD) Operations: The crew removed and replaced (R&R) the MD Feedstock Canister, Extruder, and Print Tray. The Manufacturing Device -Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF) enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the AMF that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. The AMF is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics. 
ISS Reboost: The ISS performed a nominal reboost using the Service Module (SM) main engine thrusters.  The reboost was to set up planned conditions for  48S landing on April 10 and 50S launch on April 20.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew completed this regularly scheduled maintenance to inspect Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBAs) and Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs). They will also performed 180-day mask harness maintenance.
Node 1 (N1) Starboard Aft Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Fan Inlet Cleaning: The crew completed cleaning this location to remove Foreign Object Debris (FOD) from IMV fan inlets and silencers.

