
Payloads:
AstroRad Vest: A crewmember donned the AstroRad vest, wore it for approximately 90 minutes, then doffed it and completed a survey on the device. The AstroRad vest is a personal protective equipment (PPE) device which functions as a radiation shield for astronauts. AstroRad shields astronauts from space-borne ionizing radiation in an efficient way, provides operational simplification, and allows for the use of recycled material on-board the vehicle. The concept behind the AstroRad evolved from a commercially available device, which is an effective wearable shield for first responders to radiation incidents on Earth.
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): A Robotic On-Board Trainer-research (ROBoT-r) session consisting of a set of 12 runs/tests was performed. The Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (Behavioral Core Measures) experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight and evaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the original activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crew members to complete either individual or crew telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember who has spent months in weightlessness can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
Exploration Environmental Control & Life Support System (Exploration ECLSS)-Toilet: The crew performed initial deep cleaning activities for the Toilet system and began an overnight soak on affected areas. The Toilet System is an Exploration Tech Demo that has evolved into a permanent USOS system and has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS). The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for the USOS for up to 90-crew-days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC)/Toilet operations.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The crew gained access to the MSL furnace area, removed the Solidification and Quench Furnace (SQF) insert, and installed the Low Gradient Furnace (LGF) insert. The SQF insert will be used to support the Growth of Ternary Compound Semiconductors (GTCS) experiment. GTCS grows semiconductor crystals based on zinc selenide (ZnSe) compounds in microgravity. ZnSe-based crystals have potential applications for high-power lasers operating in infrared wavelengths. The investigation compares structural quality of crystals grown on Earth and in microgravity to establish how gravity-driven fluid flows contribute to formation of various types of crystalline defects. 
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): Two crystallization probe exchanges were performed, and the probes were processed after each exchange. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Vascular Aging (VA): In support of the multi-day VA experiment session, ultrasound scans were performed, and blood pressure was measured. Emerging data points towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries.
Systems:
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Water Sample and Hydrogen (H2) Sensor Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew obtained a water sample from the OGS Recirculation Loop for return-to-ground analysis. After drawing the water sample from the loop, the crew performed an R&R of the OGS H2 sensor. The H2 sensor R&R is routine maintenance activity and is necessary due to nominal degradation of the H2 sensor materials over time. Following the R&R, ground specialists fully reactivated the Oxygen Generator Assembly (OGA) to an operational configuration. 
On-Board Training (OBT) Dragon Rendezvous Review and Conference: Today, the crew reviewed the Dragon vehicle approach overview and approach monitoring tools in preparation for the upcoming Axiom-1 Private Astronaut Mission (PAM). Afterwards, the crew participated in a conference with the Axiom-1 ground team and instructors. Axiom-1 is planned to launch in April with the objective of transporting four Private Astronauts, including one previously flown NASA astronaut, on a SpaceX Crew Dragon to stay on-board the ISS. This crew will be the first all-private crew to visit the space station.

