
Conjunction with Object #35758 Status: Ground teams received updated tracking data for a possible conjunction with Object #35758. The conjunction is of high concern and ground controllers will be tracking it throughout the evening.  If a debris avoidance maneuver is needed, a Pre-Determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM) would be executed at approximately 3:42pm CDT on Thursday.
Petri-Plant Light Measurement: ISS Commander (CDR) Wakata collected a second set of light intensity measurements using a light meter tablet application at the Deck 1 rack in the US Lab where Petri-Plants will be deployed. The crew took previous light meter measurements on March 14th, but the results were not as expected by the ground. Petri-Plants will be delivered to the ISS on SpaceX-3 (SpX-3).
European Drawer Rack (EDR) Space Acceleration Measurement System (SAMS) Installation:  Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio successfully installed a SAMS sensor on the EDR in the Columbus module in preparation for the European Space Agency (ESA) experiment, Facility for Absorption and Surface Tension (FASTER), to be delivered on SpX-3. The SAMS sensor will acquire microgravity data while the FASTER experiment is running. FASTER will investigate links between emulsion stability and physico-chemical characteristics of droplet interfaces.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Noise Troubleshooting and Pump Separator Changeout:  Wakata performed an activity to determine whether the WHC Pump Separator is experiencing noise due to internal gear wear or other factors.  He checked Kabin panels and several hardware components but did not find any specific contributors.  FE-3 Swanson proceeded with swapping out the pump separator. Following the pump separator changeout, the sound appears to have been reduced and the system is configured for nominal operations.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Samples: Mastracchio performed water sampling from the cooling loops on EMUs 3005 and 3010.  He de-gassed and performed a leak check on the newly installed Water Line Vent Tube Assembly (WLVTA) in EMU 3010.  He then swapped EMUs 3010 and 3011 and performed water sampling on EMU 3011. The samples will be returned for chemical analysis. Finally, he performed a conductivity measurement on the EMU water samples. 
Payload Water Reservoir (PWR) Water Transfer:  The crew transfered the water from several PWRs into a Contingency Water Container (CWC) via the Umbilical Interface Assembly (UIA).  Three of the PWRs that were transferred contained water that didn’t meet the quality requirements for use in the EMUs. Two others contained water transferred from the Shuttle.
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) Trip:  Today, the ground again attempted to close LA2B_G Remote Power Controller (RPC) 1 that tripped yesterday.  The RPC closed and has remained closed following the 7th attempt. This RPC controls the Lab Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) regenerative 3-way mix valve.

