
Muscle Atrophy Research and Exercise System (MARES): Peake completed partial checkout activities for the MARES investigation by placing Percutaneous Electrical Muscle Stimulator (PEMS) electrodes on the designated area of the right leg and successfully executing ankle exercise sessions.  Software issues were discovered which prevented the remaining activities from being completed.  These will be rescheduled for a future date.  MARES is a European Space Agency (ESA) system that will be used for research on musculoskeletal, biomechanical, and neuromuscular human physiology to better understand the effects of microgravity on the muscular system. MARES is a Joint USOS Experiment (JUE) performed with both USOS and Russian crew members.
 
Rodent Research-3 (RR-3) EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station EXPRESS Rack and Habitat Familiarization: Kopra and Skripochka reviewed training material for the EXPRESS Rack and Habitats in preparation for upcoming RR-3 operations. RR-3 is a Joint USOS Experiment (JUE) performed with both USOS and Russian crew members. RR-3 studies molecular and physical changes in the musculoskeletal system that happens in space. Results expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
 
Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Hardware Gather, Session Review, and Maintenance Work Area (MWA) Preparation: Kopra gathered hardware and reviewed details for configuring the MDCA and CIA (Chamber Insert Assembly) for the Flame Extinguishment – 2 (FLEX-2) test points. The FLEX-2 experiment is the second experiment to fly on the ISS which uses small droplets of fuel to study the special spherical characteristics of burning fuel droplets in space. The experiment studies how quickly fuel burns, the conditions required for soot to form, and how mixtures of fuels evaporate before burning. Understanding these processes could lead to the production of a safer spacecraft as well as increased fuel efficiency for engines using liquid fuel on Earth.
Meteor Onboard Training and Review: Williams completed required onboard training for the Meteor installation. He verified that the Basic Input/Output System (BIOS) settings are correct for payload application and created the Software Image load of the Meteor payload software onto the T61p hard drive. The laptop and hard drive will be dedicated for Meteor use in the Window Observation Research Facility (WORF). The Meteor investigation takes high-resolution video and images of the atmosphere and uses a software program to search for bright spots which can later be analyzed on the ground.
NanoRacks Platform-1 Remove and Replace (R&R): Williams successfully removed & replaced the NanoRacks Platform-1 locker that has had data connectivity issues since SpX-4 unberth. The ground teams reported successful initial communications and will continue communications testing for 48 hours. The NanoRack Platform is a multipurpose research facility that supports NanoRacks Modules in the CubeSat form factor by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity.  NanoRacks Platform-1 is one of three Platforms and is used for modules not needing power.
 
Dose Tracker: Williams, and Kopra completed entries for medication tracking. This investigation documents the medication usage of crew members before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: Kopra completed a session of the Habitability experiment when he recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance: Williams completed this regularly scheduled maintenance today. He inspected X-Rotation Dashpots, cycled the Main Arm through full range of motion, and greased the ARED Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (VIS) rails and rollers and upper stop.
 

