
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #54: Today Anne McLain (EV-1) and David Saint-Jacques (EV-2) exited the Joint Airlock and performed US EVA #54 (Truss Jumper EVA) with a Phased Elapsed Time (PET) of 6h 29m. The crew completed the following tasks:

P4 Battery Adapter Plate relocate
Spider Cable installation under Lab MMOD shield
Short Truss Jumper cables installed under Node 1 shield
Node 1 Zenith to S0 aft side truss jumper cable install
S0 Truss Jumper blue cable mate
Secondary Bartolomeo Trunnion Slip-Off Prevention (TSOP) install
Spider Cable routed to the S0 Cable Tray (EVA get ahead task) 

Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM) mission 66 start:  The crew performed setup and activation of the EarthKAM hardware in Node 1. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
The ISS Experience: The crew set up the ISS Experience hardware in Node 1 bay 1-2 area (close to the US Airlock). The goal of today’s activity is to capture the EVA conclusion activities. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Veg-03H Harvest:  Over the weekend, the crew harvested the Wasabi Mustard Green and Extra Dwarf Pok Choi plants, which began growing on 09-March.  The ground has commented that the Wasabi plants grew faster than the Pok Choi and the harvest was timed to occur prior to Wasabi flowering, which can change the flavor of the plants.  Even though the Pok Choi did not grow as well as the Wasabi Mustard Green in this case, the ground team is able to use the data to refine future plant growth experiments. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. But future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Over the weekend Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) with the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to transfer the Nickle Hydride (Ni-H2) battery located on 4A slot 6 to slot 5. The SSRMS and SPDM were re-configured to stow SPDM on Mobile Base System (MBS)2. The SSRMS was walked off twice, first on MBS1 and then on Lab Power Data and Grapple Fixture (PDGF). SSRMS was configured in this double grasped configuration for today’s Truss Jumper EVA 54. 
Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) S03A_E Remote Power Controller (RPC) 4 trip: This morning, the Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) S03A_E Remote Power Controller (RPC) 4 experienced a trip. This RPC powers the Trailing Umbilical System (TUS-2) Video Signal Converter (VSC) Heater 1. The VSC is required for Mobile Translator (MT) operations. Teams reviewed the 50Hz latched data and gave a go to attempt closure. After the closure attempt, the RPC tripped again.  The 50Hz data did not indicate a current spike. The team plans to load the 1KHz firmware later today or tomorrow before attempting another re-closure of the RPC.

