ISS On-Orbit Status 04/05/09
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Day 9 of joint E18/19 operations for CDR Fincke, CDR-19 Padalka, FE-1 Lonchakov, FE-1-19 Barratt, FE-2 Wakata, and SFP Simonyi.  Sunday – ahead: Week 1 of Increment 19.
 
 CDR Fincke &amp; FE-1-19 Barratt started new sessions with the biomed experiment “Integrated Immune”, Col. Mike’s second &amp; Dr. Mike’s first run, collecting liquid &amp; dry saliva samples at several times during the day.    [Along with NUTRITION (Nutritional Status Assessment), Integrated Immune (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples &amp; analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned on the Shuttle so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.] 
 
 During the day, Gennady used the Russian IPD-NH3 Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the cabin air for NH3 (ammonia, from possible urine spillage), followed by the periodic air sampling with the AK-1M adsorber around the SM work table.  The samplers were stowed in the Soyuz 17S Descent Module for analysis on the ground.   
 
 In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-2 Wakata set up the G1 video camcorder with MPC (Multipurpose Converter) and IPU (Image Processing Unit) for high definition TV plus the NIKON D2Xs camera and JAXA E3 camera, then conducted the Commercial3 program.    [This involved shooting high-definition onboard scenes featuring his wristwatch and other objects for commercial use, then opening the JPM window shutters and taking photos of the earth with JEM E3 Camera for commercial use.  Later, the activity was closed down and the equipment stowed.] 
 
 Koichi also performed the regular 30-day inspection of the new AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack.     [The AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient.  It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.  AEDs are generally either held by trained personnel who will attend events or are public access units which can be found in places including corporate and government offices, shopping centers, airports, restaurants, casinos, hotels, sports stadiums, schools and universities, community centers, fitness centers, health clubs and any other location where people may congregate.]
 
 Later, the FE-2 worked in the JPM, removing the JEMAL (JEM Airlock) launch locks for the ACDU (Airlock Control &amp; Display Unit), Valve Box and Slide Table, and checked the Airlock’s drive shaft.  CDR Fincke assisted in the activity.
 
 Lonchakov &amp; Padalka filled the designated KOV EDV container with US condensate from CWCs (Contingency Water Container) for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis.  Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.] 
 
 In preparation for his return to gravity in three days, Yuri Lonchakov undertook the fifth and final training session of the Russian MO-5 MedOps protocol of cardiovascular evaluation in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP) on the Russian VELO ergometer, assisting by Gennady Padalka as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  The activity was then closed out.     [The 90-min assessment, supported by ground specialist tagup (VHF) and telemetry monitoring from Russian ground sites (DO2), uses the Gamma-1 ECG equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels. The Chibis ODNT provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Malenchenko’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after several months in zero-G. The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by two cycles of a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -20, -25, -35, and -40 mmHg for five min. each, then -25, -30, and -40 mmHg (Torr) for 10 min each, while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, while wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to 
 accomplish its purpose more quickly.] 
 
 Having started METOX (Metal Oxide) regeneration on two METOX CO2 absorption canisters (#0016, #0022) from the 15A spacewalks yesterday in the US Airlock, Mike Fincke today terminated the “bakeout” process.
 
 Mike Barratt performed the weekly “T+2d” inflight microbiology analyses for the samples collected on 4/2 from the PWD Hot tap after the recent 17-hr iodine soak of its microbial filter.
 
 The Fei1-19 also conducted the daily status check on the BCAT-4 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-4) science payload, running by itself since 4/3.    [The status check, conducted on the last image taken by the DCS 760 digital still camera which is controlled by EarthKAM software on an A31p laptop, is to verify proper image focus and camera alignment.  The SSC (Station Support Computer) is taking photography of the phase separation occurring in the BCAT Sample 3, with the photo flash going off every half hour.] 
 
 Continuing the extended leak checking of the spare BZh Liquid Unit (#056) for the Elektron O2 generator, CDR-19 Padalka charged the unit once again with pressurized N2 from the BPA Nitrogen Purge Unit (#23) to 1 atm (1 kg/cm2).  The last test pressurization test to monitor for leakage was on 3/5.      [Objective of the monthly checkout of the BZh, which has been in stowage for about 2 years, is to check for leakage and good water passage through the feed line inside of the BZh (from ZL1 connector to the buffer tank) and to check the response of the Electronics Unit’s micro switches (signaling “Buffer Tank is Empty” &amp; “Buffer Tank is Full”.  During Elektron operation, the inert gas locked up in the BZh has the purpose to prevent dangerous O2/H2 mixing.  A leaking BZh cannot be used.] 
 
 Padalka also conducted the periodic (currently daily) checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways, including the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Compartment)–PrK–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, FGB PGO–FGB GA, FGB GA–Node-1.    [This checkup is especially important when the ventilation/circulation system has to cope with a larger crew on board, currently six persons, and one of the two Russian SKV air conditioners off (SKV-1) because it is beyond its service life.]
 
 Later, the CDR-19 performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM and FGB by cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting the POTOK in automatic mode.
 
 For the fifth time, Koichi Wakata continued preparing the MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for the ISS) for upcoming sample storage by inserting more Icepacs, i.e., retrieving two -32 degC Icepac belts and placing them into Dewar 3.
 
 In the Soyuz TMA-13 Descent Module, FE-1 Lonchakov worked on the KhSA air conditioner (cooler/dehumidifier), removing and replacing the Soyuz KhSA-SA ventilation &amp; cooling fan V1 which has exhibited sporadic behavior since docking and was first checked by Yuri on 11/24/08 and then again on 1/27/09 for unimpeded spinning.  The removed hardware was packed for return to the ground on 17S.  The backup fan continued to operate nominally.
 
 Padalka &amp; Lonchakov conducted the MO-22 Sanitary-Epidemiological Status check, part of the Russian MedOps program done usually before Soyuz departures.    [To monitor for microflora, Gennady &amp; Yuri collected samples from surface areas of interior panels and hardware at various places in the Service Module (SM), and the FGB, also from each other, using cotton swabs and special test tubes which were then stowed in 17S for return to the ground.] 
 
 In preparation for a microbial air sampling session scheduled tomorrow, the FE-1 unstowed and set up the MedOps SZM-MO-21 ECOSFERA equipment, initiating charging on the Ecosphere power pack (BP) and activating the KRIOGEM-03 refrigerator for the samples.    [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger, power supply unit, and incubation tray for Petri dishes, determines microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.] 
 
 Gennady performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.   Additionally, Padalka checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP-Moscow.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 The CDR-19 also conducted the periodic checkup behind panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
 Gennady later completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 The combined crew again had several hours of generic handover time scheduled, between Dr. Mike &amp; Col. Mike, Yuri &amp; Gennady, Col. Mike &amp; Dr. Mike, and Koichi &amp; Dr. Mike.
 
 Fincke, Wakata, Lonchakov &amp; Barratt completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2, CDR-19), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1-19), ARED resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1/ODNT).
 
 At ~10:05am EDT, SFP Charles Simonyi was assisted by CDR-19 Padalka in his own Commemorative (Symbolic) Activities.
 
 Other scheduled VC-16 activities for Simonyi today included –
 <ul><li>Holding the daily comm session via TLF (phone) with his advisory team at TsUP/Moscow,  <li>Working with his email, and  <li>Conducting his IP-Phone call to the ground, and 
 </li></li></li></ul>No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today. 
 
 CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website:
 <a href="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov">http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov</a>  &lt;<a href="http://">http://</a>eol.jsc.nasa.gov/&gt;  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).
 
 

