
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Universal Docking Port (UDP): The crew completed a test run for the SPHERES UDP payload. They loaded the test software and performed the session with ground support staff direction. Objectives of the UDP session are to demonstrate a reliably successful docking through running multiple, repeatable docking maneuvers using both global metrology and docking port cameras; perform joint maneuvers of docked satellites using the thrusters from two satellites to demonstrate controllability; and test an algorithm for docking to a satellite which is tumbling in a slow, known manner. The addition of the Docking Ports is a critical upgrade to the SPHERES facility aboard the ISS. With the new ability to dock and undock, SPHERES provides a test bed to address many of the challenges of combining autonomous spacecraft. Mated spacecraft can assemble complex systems in orbit or combine sensors and actuators for satellite servicing and repurposing missions. The SPHERES-UDP enables testing of complex tasks through optimal and adaptive control, autonomous decision-making processes, and real-time image processing.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Sample Holder Exchange: The crew performed the first of two days of operations in support of the JAXA ELF Sample exchanges in the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack-2 (MSPR2) facility.  They removed the sample holder and installed the new cartridge into the holder. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. 
Story Time From Space Light Demo: The crew narrated and recorded a video to demonstrate the spectrum of the light from the sun and the attenuation of the light intensity as the sun is viewed through the atmosphere. Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crew members read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related childrens’ books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crew members videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials. The narrated demonstration is based on the childrens’ books Max Goes to Mars, The Wizard Who Saved the World, and Max Goes to Jupiter.
Multi-Omics Mouse Preparations: In preparation for the JAXA Rodent Research experiment hardware launching on SpaceX-11 (SpX-11), the crew installed the Glove Box Panel on the Kobairo Rack front in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). Following installation, the attachment points for the Working Table were marked with Kapton tape for easier operations on SpX-11. 
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Overhead Cleaning: In preparation for departure from the ISS next week, the CDR cleaned his CQ intake and exhaust ducts as well as fans and airflow sensors while targeting areas behind applicable panels.  
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Maintenance: During today’s post Extravehicular Activity (EVA) EMU suit maintenance, a step to switch the suits to battery power from Service and Cooling Umbilical (SCU) power was missed. While powering up for a cooling loop scrub, both EMU 3006 and 3008 were configured for station power during the power up sequence rather than battery power. Powering EMUs from battery power is to protect from power spikes that may occur when the DC to DC converter is powered. During the activity, there were no DC-DC converter trips, no EMU current limiter trips and nominal suit data was observed immediately after power up on both suits. Ground teams are evaluating further for any unknown impacts.  The cooling loop scrub was completed with no further issues.

