
PrK Operations: After completing gas and water transfers from Progress 87P to the ISS, the Progress 87P hatch was closed early this morning. This afternoon, the crew closed the PrK hatch according to the plan.
Payloads:
BioFabrication Facility (BFF) – The crew exchanged multiple cassettes, and the ground team was able to perform a successful biological print. Following the print, the crew prepared BFF for another science print tomorrow. The ground team has reported the second of four smart pumps is clogged, but can proceed with science activities with the two remaining smart pumps. More information on the current experiment (BFF-Cardiac) can be found here.
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): Routine periodic touching was performed for experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. More information on this experiment can be found here.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-28 (J-SSOD-28): The crew completed the second of two days to install the satellite launcher and associated hardware onto the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table. J-SSOD-28 will be passed through the JEMAL, maneuvered robotically to a deploy position, and launch three satellites later this week. Satellite deploys will occur in two windows, with the CURTIS satellite launching in the first window, and KASHIWA and MicroOrbiter-1 launching in the second window.
Systems:
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued transferring cargo from the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle to the ISS. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until April 26th before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Sample Operations: The crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the potable water. The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
Condensate Grade Contingency Water Container-Iodine (CWC-I) Pump to Wastewater Bus: Today, the crew assembled, connected, and activated the Fluid Transfer Pump and transferred fluid to the Wastewater Bus. This assembly used condensate grade hardware, so the CWC-I was downgraded to Condensate grade. The CWC is a soft container with an inner bladder that can store a variety of liquids including humidity condensate, wastewater, and other unique fluids such as Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) wastewater.
