
Payloads:
Foams and Emulsions Sampling: An experiment-1 protocol session was performed, which results in the production of an emulsion. In this protocol, the emulsion is formed by mixing an aqueous solution with an oil. The emulsion is observed in the Keyence Research Microscope Testbed (KERMIT) and then “cured” to preserve it for later analysis. Foams and emulsions appear in many foods, consumer, and personal care products and are used in a variety of industries. Structure and Stability of Foams and Emulsions examines the properties and performance of foams and emulsions, including using particles of various shapes and surface roughness to stabilize these materials. Microgravity enables examination of the microstructures of foams and emulsions due to the elimination of gravity-related factors such as buoyancy of particles.
Food Physiology: The crew participated in a Food Physiology diet briefing with the science team on the ground. The Integrated Impact of Diet on Human Immune Response, the Gut Microbiota, and Nutritional Status During Adaptation to Spaceflight (Food Physiology) experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight.
Rhodium DARPA Biomanufacturing-01: The crew removed the processed science chambers from the Variable Gravity Simulator (VGS) and installed the next set of science chambers to be processed. This marks the completion of the third set of samples, and start of the fourth and final set of samples. This final run is planned for nine days. Efficient and Resilient Biomanufacturing in Variable Gravity (Rhodium DARPA Biomanufacturing 01) characterizes the effect of different levels of gravity on the production of therapeutics and nutraceuticals from bacteria and yeast. Prior spaceflight studies show that microgravity causes changes in microbe cell growth, cell morphology, and metabolic activity that affect biomanufacturing performance. Results could inform strategies to improve biomanufacturing in space and provide for humans on future missions.
Systems:
69 Soyuz (69S) Relocation Onboard Training (OBT): The 69S crew successfully completed training for 69S vehicle relocation, as well as a manual control skills refreshers. This OBT was done in preparation of the 69S relocation currently scheduled on Thursday April 6th.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Sample Operations: The crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) for in-flight and post-flight analysis. In-flight samples were used to perform a Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) analysis that measures the amount of organic constituents in the portable water. Additionally, the crew performed analysis of water samples focused on microbial and coliform detection. These tests are used to determine water quality onboard ISS and ensure the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exams: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The crew set up the Brine Processor Transfer Hose to drain the installed Recycle Tank to the Brine Processor. Following that, the ground team drained the Urine Process Assembly (UPA) Recycle Tank using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Once the ground team completed the transfer, the crew terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank with UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations.
