
Payloads
AC Touch: Per standard procedure, the crew touched both the coated and uncoated coupons for this long-term investigation.  Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
JEM Airlock Slide Table Reconfiguration: In preparation for the MISSE-14-NASA installation later this week, the crew removed the passive capture mechanism from the slide table and installed the JEM ORU Transfer Interface (JOTI) hardware.  Materials International Space Station Experiment-14-NASA (MISSE-14-NASA) continues a series of tests by NASA Glenn Research Center on how the harsh environment of space affects the performance and durability of various materials. Each mission tests new materials and material configurations, and similar materials fly on multiple MISSE missions. MISSE-14-NASA exposes de-orbit, phase change and radiation shielding materials as well as 10 types of crop seeds to the space environment.
TangoLab: The crew removed the TangoLab-2 facility, installed a new TangoLab facility into the EXPRESS rack, and connected the power and data cables.  Payload cards 013 and 018 were then installed into the new TangoLab facility.  Space Tango’s TangoLab locker is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development (R&D) and pilot manufacturing aboard the International Space Station (ISS).
Vascular Aging: The crew participated in ultrasound scans of the neck, thigh, portal vein and heart.  They also logged a series of blood pressure measurements in support of the experiment.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many International Space Station (ISS) crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems
Extra—Vehicular Activity (EVA) Battery Operations Terminal (EBOT) Charging: Following successful installation of the new EBOT hardware yesterday, the system was checked out this morning.  All checks were nominal and batteries have been inserted and are charging.
Crew Alternate Sleep Accommodation (CASA): The crew began the first part of CASA installation at the Columbus 104 ZSR rack. Completion of installation is scheduled for next week. CASA is a crew accommodation to allow for long duration stay for a fifth crew member, as well as stowage when a 5th crewmember is not present. 
Japanese Experiment Logistics Module – Pressurized Section (JLP) Hygiene Modifications: In order to use the JLP as a hygiene location, the crew installed hygiene covers on all stowage, ZSR fronts, and open rack bays including loose CTBs. They also installed a partition between Bay 1 and Bay 2 to help contain as much moisture as possible in Bay 1.

