
Payloads:
Astrobee/Integrated System for Autonomous and Adaptive Caretaking (ISAAC): Following a software update, Astrobee supported an ISAAC session in Node 2. In this session, the Astrobee robot acted as autonomously as possible with minimal intervention from the ISS crew. The ISAAC project demonstrates using autonomous robots in human exploration vehicles to track vehicle health, transfer and unpack cargo, and respond to critical faults such as leaks and fires. ISAAC uses the space station’s Astrobee and Robonaut robots for the demonstration. This technology could be used on vehicles and habitats on future exploration missions to the Moon and Mars to maintain vehicles while astronauts are away for extended periods.
Food Physiology: The crew attended a diet briefing in support of the Food Physiology investigation. The Integrated Impact of Diet on Human Immune Response, the Gut Microbiota, and Nutritional Status During Adaptation to Spaceflight (Food Physiology) experiment is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. These factors are interlinked, but diet is the only one that can be easily and meaningfully altered on Earth or during flight. This investigation aims to document the effect of dietary improvements on human physiology and the ability of those improvements to enhance adaptation to spaceflight. 
ISS Ham: An ISS Ham event with the Space Hardware Club, Huntsville, Alabama was supported.  Some of the questions asked by the students included: how difficult it is to communicate with crewmembers from other countries, how plants/bacteria/fungi grow in space compared to Earth, and the hardest challenge the crew faced while living in space. ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering, and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground Ham radio units.
Spacesuit Evaporation Rejection Flight Experiment (SERFE): In preparation for SERFE activities later this week, a Contingency Water Container – Iodinated (CWC-I) was obtained, and gas was removed from the bag. SERFE demonstrates a new technology to remove heat from spacesuits and maintain appropriate temperatures for crew members and equipment during space walks. The technology uses evaporation of water for cooling. The investigation determines whether microgravity affects performance and evaluates the technology’s effect on contamination and corrosion of spacesuit material. 
Space Tango – Cubelab Satellite Demonstrator: A bonus science session was planned for the KENT_SAT01 CubeSat, but the CubeSat was unresponsive. Brief troubleshooting was attempted but was not successful, so the CubeSat was re-stowed. Space Tango – Cubelab Satellite Demonstrator tests a new attitude-control technology for small satellites, which is an integral part of future space missions as conventional attitude control systems for large satellites are not suited for small satellites. The new technology is energy efficient, lightweight, and not subject to friction wear, and it could enhance the attitude maneuvering capabilities of small satellites.
Space Test Program-H5-Innovative Coatings Experiment (STP-H5 ICE): Using the Cupola and JEM windows, the crew took periodic photos of all four ICE material strips on STP-H5. The harsh radiation and extreme temperatures of space can corrode the paint and coatings that protect spacecraft exteriors, potentially damaging a spacecraft’s hull. Optical coatings are also important for robotic and human navigators, who would rely on specialized markings to capture or repair spacecraft. STP-H5 ICE studies new coatings for use on spacecraft in low-Earth orbit, determining their stability after two years in space.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): Two crystallization probe exchanges were performed, and the probes were processed following each exchange. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pretreated Urine Sample Adapter Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew R&R’d the pretreated urine sample adapter attached to the WHC water flush depressurization line. The WHC is a modified ACY (Russian toilet) system that was altered to integrate into a USOS rack. The urine output by the WHC is fed directly into the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) and is purified to create potable water. 
Toilet Stall Seat Track Stud Ring Fitcheck: Today, the crew installed seat track stud rings with adjustable length tethers in several configurations on the port side wall of the Toilet stall and evaluate functionality. Because the seat track stud rings with adjustable length tethers are near the Advance Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) operational worksite and very close to its dynamic envelope, the crew performed an ARED range of motion test for each configuration to ensure there are no contact points between ARED and the seat track stud rings. The tethers on the port wall are translation aids for the crew to maneuver in Node 3, and it is important to verify ARED is clear of contact with the tether’s rigid studs in order to protect hardware and to allow the crew to perform nominal exercise.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) CWC-I Sample Collection and EVA Umbilical Interface Assembly (UIA) Biocide Filter R&R: In support of the USOS EVA #80 water in helmet investigation, the crew collected a water sample from a CWC-I used to fill the Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs). The crew then R&R’d the supply side UIA Biocide filter. The function of the UIA Biocide filter is to filter and iodinate feedwater and wastewater to/from the EMU during spacesuit servicing operations. Both the water sample and removed filter will be returned to Earth for analysis. 
RS EVA Tool Gather Part 2 and Transfer: The crew completed the final USOS EVA tool gathering activity in support of the upcoming RS EVAs #52 and #53. The crew removed the Lithium-Ion EVA Helmet Interchangeable Portable (EHIP) Power Adapter Modules, Helmet Lights, EMU TV, and HD EMU Camera from EMU 3015 and EMU 3004 and placed the hardware into two mesh bags. The crew then transferred the USOS EVA tools, which included these two bags, to the RS. 
ISS Water Container Audit: Today, the crew audited water containers, operationally known as CWC-Is, in Node 3 and PMM to verify each container is located in its intended location and report if any are empty. A CWC-I is a water bag which has the ability to store up to 50-lbs of iodinated water.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the water from the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
European IP Communication Laptop (EICL) Boot from Alternate Hard Disk Drive (HDD): Today, the crew tested the EICL boot process from both the internal HDD and the UltraBay HDD to see how each performed. The UltraBay HDD was replaced yesterday after being identified as suspect during EICL troubleshooting attempts earlier this year.

