
SpaceX-14 Launch: SpX-14 launched nominally today at 3:30:38 pm CDT. In preparation for vehicle arrival, the crew performed an Onboard Training (OBT) session to practice offset grapples. After the crew’s training session, ground specialists relocated the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the Dragon Park Position. In addition, all USOS crew participated in a conference with ground cargo transfer specialists to discuss the SpX-14 cargo unloading and loading plan. Capture and berthing is scheduled for this Wednesday at 9:47 CDT. 
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) SmoothNav: A crewmember set up and performed a SPHERES SmoothNav test run today. SmoothNav uses an estimation algorithm aggregating relative state measurements between multiple, small, and potentially differently instrumented spacecraft. The algorithm obtains the most probable estimate of the relative positions and velocities between all spacecraft using all available sensor information, including past measurements. The algorithm remains portable between different satellite platforms with different onboard sensors, adaptable in the case that one or more satellites become inoperable, and tolerant to delayed measurements or measurements received at different frequencies.
Veg-03:  Yesterday the crew watered the plants and continued with the photo-documentation of plant growth for the Veg-03 investigation. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2): To support the MT-2 investigation, a 53S crewmember collected his Flight Day 105 saliva and body samples and inserted them into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  He also completed a body sample questionnaire. The MT-2 series continues the monitoring of the types of microbes that are present on the ISS. It seeks to catalog and characterize potential disease-causing microorganisms onboard the ISS. Crew pre-flight, in-flight, and post-flight samples and environmental samples are collected to identify any associations between the microbial content of the samples, as well as potential health effects. 
Human Research Facility (HRF)-2:  Today the crew verified that blood collection processing in the HRF-2 Refrigerated Centrifuge has not been affected by troubleshooting of the Rack Interface Controller (RIC) on HRF-2.  Communication to the rack was lost on March 25th.  Ground teams are currently developing additional troubleshooting steps. 
Post Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: Following last Thursday’s successful EVA, the crew completed an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) #3006 and #3010 loop scrub, iodination of the ion filters, and water conductivity tests. The crew also conducted a checkout of the Metal Oxide (MetOx) canister (SN 0013) that was removed prior to EVA 49 when EMU #3006 failed the pre EVA leak check.  Today’s loop scrub was completed successfully, exonerating the MetOx canister as the cause of the failed leak check.  
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Robotics Operations: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS in support of crew Dragon Offset Grapple practice. During this On-Board-Training (OBT) session, the crew maneuvered the Canadarm2 for training/familiarization in preparation for SpaceX CRS-14 capture. Later, flight controllers performed MSS diagnostics and checkouts on the arm’s “Redundant” string which passed nominally. The arm was left at the Dragon Rendezvous Park position in preparation for Wednesday and the flight controllers then performed data gathering to further investigate a previous Video Distribution Unit (VDU) #3 anomaly.

