
SpaceX-14 Status: SpaceX has completed the CUCU Broadcast Test and configured CUCU and Dragon UHF for rendezvous.  The Dragon vehicle continues to follow the nominal rendezvous profile that supports an ISS capture tomorrow at 6:00 am CDT. 
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) Electric-Field Effects on Laminar Diffusion (E-Field) Flames:  In preparation for the upcoming ACME E-Field Flames investigation the crew installed the ACME Mesh Positive Power Supply. The ACME investigation is a set of five independent studies of gaseous flames to be conducted in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR).  ACME’s primary goal is to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in practical combustion on Earth.  For E-Field Flames an electric field with voltages as high as 10,000 volts is established between the burner and a mesh electrode. The motion of the charged ions, which are naturally produced within the flame, are strongly affected by a high-voltage electric field. The resulting ion-driven wind can dramatically influence the stability and sooting behavior of the flame. Conducting the tests in microgravity allows for great simplifications in the analysis, enabling new understanding and the development of less polluting and more efficient combustion technology for use on Earth.
Mouse Stress Defense:  To prepare for the transfer on Thursday of mice from the SpaceX-14 vehicle, the crew perform a pre-mission set up of the Mouse Habitat Cage Units for the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF).  They installed food cartridges, odor filters, water and filled up the washer fluid container.  The crew was unable to add water to 2 of the cage units.  Ground teams are investigating the issue.   Microgravity provokes cellular mechanical stresses and perturbs cellular signaling, leading to reduction of muscle and bone density. To overcome these stresses, one of the promising strategies is to activate Nrf2, a master regulator of antioxidant pathway. Mouse Stress Defense investigates how Nrf2 contributes to effective prevention of space-originated stresses.  
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 2: The crewmembers tasked with capturing Dragon completed their second, and final, OBT session using ROBoT. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. Today’s runs allowed the crew to practice Free Drift timing, malfunction response, and nominal rate approaches.   After the training session the crew had a conference with ground specialists where they discussed any final questions or comments related to capture and berthing operations. 

