
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR)/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) Hardware Replacement:  The crew changed the CIR/ACME system from the BRE (Burning Rate Emulator) experiment configuration to the Flame Design experiment configuration. The Flame Design investigation studies the production and control of soot to optimize oxygen-enriched combustion and the design of robust, soot-free flames. Soot can adversely affect efficiency, emissions, and equipment lifetime, so this may lead to more efficient and cleaner burner designs. The experiment is conducted with spherical flames of gaseous fuels in the CIR as part of the Advanced ACME project. Flame Design is one of five experiments hosted by CIR/ACME.
Probiotics: A crewmember performed saliva sample collections and completed a questionnaire in support of the JAXA Probiotics study. The objective of the Probiotics investigation is to study the impact of continuous consumption of beneficial bacteria (probiotics) on immune function and intestinal microbiota in astronauts in a closed microgravity environment. The results of this investigation may be used to support improvements in crew members’ intestinal microbiota and their immune function on long-duration space missions 
SUBSA (Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules) sample exchange: The crew removed the completed Indium Iodide vapor deposition sample and inserted another sample cartridge to be processed.  Indium iodide (InI) is ideal for space experiments in the SUBSA Transparent Furnace because it is non-toxic, has a relatively low melting point of only 365°C, and does not react or stick to the silica crucible.  Directional solidification of InI from the melt can be performed at a rate of 5 mm/hour, and growth from the vapor can be performed at ~5 mm/week.  This work advances the process of fabricating high-quality InI and other crystals on Earth for use as better and less expensive detectors of nuclear radiation.
Post Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations: Following yesterday’s EVA, today the crew completed the following activities.

Refilled water tanks in Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU)s 3006 and 3008 using iodinated water to satisfy maintenance requirements for on-orbit stowage.
Airlock reconfig
Debrief with ground teams
Photo/TV camera disassembly

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS on the redundant string to allow the EVA to execute one of the tasks to install the truss jumpers that will provide Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) with an alternate power path in case of an upstream electronic box (Battery Charge Discharge Unit (BCDU), Direct Current to Direct Current Converter Unit (DDCU) or Pump Module (PM)) failure. During the EVA, the MSS provided camera viewing support. After the EV Crew installed the Spider Cable on the Lab, ROBO performed a successful connectivity checkout. Following the EVA, ROBO reconfigured MSS in a nominal Dual String Keep-alive state.
Compound Specific Analyzer: Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Maintenance: The crew completed this routine maintenance to zero calibrate and replace battery packs in all four units. The CSA-CPs are used by the crew to detect evidence of fire and/or hazardous environment.

