
Flight Day 120 (FD120) Human Research Program (HRP) Collections: The 49S subject performed a fasting blood draw and urine collections. Both samples were stowed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for freezing and storage until their return and analysis. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Sample Holder Exchange: The crew performed the second part of the ELF Sample Exchange, installing the Sample Holder and Cartridge into the ELF Work Volume. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Multi-Omics Mouse Preparations: In preparation for the JAXA Rodent Research experiment hardware launching on SpaceX-11, the crew set up the CO2 Valve Unit and performed a checkout. 
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Relocate Postponed:  The PWD was scheduled to be relocated today but the activity was postponed.  The crew spent time yesterday and today looking for an adapter needed for the activity but were unable to locate it.  Ground teams are discussing work arounds to allow the relocation to occur without using the adapter.

