
Payloads:
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM): The crew checked the APM hardware and reported the display status. Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. The APM demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): A visual inspection was performed of the CAL moderate temperature loop (MTL) coolant hose, and any coolant observed was cleaned up. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew gained access to the interior of the ELF and exchanged sample holder number 2. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt, and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Light Ions Detector for ALTEA (LIDAL): Following the temporary relocation to accommodate other science activities, the LIDAL system was returned to its Expedite the Processing of Experiments to the Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 3 location. The ground team verified a good configuration and good telemetry. The capability of Anomalous Long-Term Effects in Astronauts (ALTEA) to measure the linear energy transfer (LET) of protons and helium and the kinetic energy of protons and heavy ions is to be upgraded by the addition of a new time of flight (TOF) system detector called LIDAL. LIDAL upgrades the ability of ALTEA to make measurements that can be converted, by dedicated software in real-time, into radiation risk coefficients – effectively enabling ALTEA to become the first ever dosimetric (risk meter) aboard the ISS.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The EarthKAM hardware components were set up in the Node 2 nadir window for a week-long imaging session. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges, and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): The processed fiber optic cable spool and preform were removed, completing this part of the investigation. Following this, two crystallization probes were inserted for processing. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Vascular Aging (VA): In support of the multi-day VA experiment session, ultrasound scans were performed, and blood pressure was measured. Emerging data points towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicates that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries.
Systems:
Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and Cygnus cargo vehicle, NG-17, by unloading supplies from NG-17 and loading items like common trash for disposal. NG-17 is planned to remain at the space station until the end of May before it departs the ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. 
Crew Dragon Emergency Equipment Staging and EMER-1a Systems Operations Data File (SODF) Update: Today, the crew gathered ISS emergency hardware and staged it in preparation for the arrival of the upcoming Axiom-1 Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) which will use a Crew Dragon. The crew also made pen and ink updates to seven procedures in EMER-1a: Depress, Fire, Equipment Retrieval required before Axiom-1 arrival. The updates adjust the procedures for the upcoming Axiom-1 and Crew-4 missions in order to specify which responses should not be performed by the crew of Axiom-1 or Crew-4 and change carbon monoxide (CO) safe haven limits for Crew Dragon. 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Surface Sampler Kit (SSK) and Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Analysis: Five days ago, the crew took surface and air samples using the SSK and MAS and incubated the samples on media slides and petri dishes. Today, the crew visually analyzed the media slides and petri dishes and sorted them for return with the Endurance Crew. These samples were incubated to give medical personnel a gauge of microbial growth in the air and on surfaces of the ISS. The EHS monitors the atmosphere for gaseous contaminants from nonmetallic materials off-gassing, combustion products, and propellants, microbial contaminants from crewmembers and Station activities, water quality, acoustics, and radiation levels. 
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Post-Maintenance Flush: The crew performed a flush to return the Water Recovery Management (WRM) hardware used in the OGA Pump Sample and Flush to potable cleanliness. The OGA Pump circulates water through the OGA, which produces oxygen via electrolysis using iodinated water from the Water Processor Assembly (WPA).
Treadmill 2 (T2) Maintenance: As part of regular maintenance to ensure that T2 is in good operational condition, the crew inspected all four Snubber Arms for any sign of free play as well as make any necessary adjustments to reduce the free play. Additionally, the crew taped the Z-axis isolators and inspected the taping on the X-, Y-, and Upper isolators. Finally, the crew also inspected the MTL Supply/Return Quick Disconnects (QDs), gamah fittings, and taped hoses at the T2 Umbilical Panel for damage or leaks. No active leaks were found during this inspection. 

