
Payloads:
Four Bed Carbon Dioxide (4BCO2) Scrubber: The crew collected Carbon Dioxide (CO2) effluent samples from the 4BCO2 system. These samples will be returned to the ground for analysis. 4BCO2 demonstrates a technology for removing CO2 from the atmosphere on a spacecraft. The technology is based on the current system in use on the ISS with mechanical upgrades in absorption beds, heater elements, and valves and use of an improved zeolite absorbent to reduce erosion and dust formation. A goal for next-generation systems is continuous operation for 20,000 hours without a failure, and this technology is a step toward that goal. 
ADvanced Space Experiment Processor-2 Pharmaceutical In-space Laboratory-03 (ADSEP-PIL-03): The crew gained access to the ADSEP-2 facility and exchanged the experiment cassettes in Module C. They also took photos of these experiment activities being performed. ADSEP-PIL-03 grows crystals of several commercially relevant small molecules, each having various structures that may be altered by a microgravity environment. A better understanding of these effects may support commercial production of these compounds and provide a better understanding of their properties and functions. 
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The crew participated in a vestibular exam and gathered samples in support of the CIPHER suite of investigations. Due to computer hardware issues, not all of the session vestibular tests were able to be completed. CIPHER aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being. 
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew gained access to the ELF facility and exchanged the sample holder. This activity removes processed (melted/solidified) samples and installs new samples. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR).
JEM Internal Ball Camera-2 (Int Ball-2; JEM Camera Robot-2): The crew powered on the Int Ball-2, and then verified the cooling fan and LED were in a good configuration. JEM Camera Robot-2 was previously powered off in support of other science activities in the area. The system demonstrates technology for automating video and photos of research activities. Crew time is one of the most valuable resources on the International Space Station, and many simple, repetitive tasks could be automated. This frees up crew time for more important activities.
Space Organogenesis 2: Over the weekend, the crew completed days seven and eight of experiment operations for Space Organogenesis 2. Although several cleanup activities remain, the eight-day experiment session has been completed. The Development of Advanced 3D Organ Culture System Utilizing the Microgravity Environment (Space Organogenesis) investigation demonstrates growth of organ buds from human stem cells in three-dimensional (3D) cultures in microgravity. Researchers plan to use these cultures to observe growth of the organ buds and analyze changes in gene expression. Cell culture on Earth is limited to two dimensions but in microgravity, cell cultures likely can expand into three dimensions.
Thigh Cuff: The crew donned the Thigh Cuff hardware and performed an experiment session. The experiment session includes use of the Thigh Cuff hardware, ultrasound scans, and a questionnaire. Microgravity causes fluids in the body to move toward the head, which can cause health problems including changes in eye structure and vision. Mitigating Headward Fluid Shifts with Veno-constrictive Thigh Cuffs during Spaceflight (Thigh Cuff) examines whether tight cuffs on the legs change the way fluid moves around inside the body. If so, the cuffs could serve as a countermeasure against the problems associated with fluid shifts during spaceflight.
Systems:
Soyuz Nominal Descent Training: In preparation for their upcoming departure from the ISS on April 6th, the 70S Crew completed a nominal descent and landing drill. During this training, the crew was inside their Soyuz spacecraft reviewing and practicing undock and landing procedures. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Today, the crew performed routine EVA maintenance activities on Li-Ion Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (LREBA) batteries. The crew gathered tools and materials for upcoming battery operations, installed EVA batteries into the Battery Stowage Compartment, and initiated a charge on all LREBA batteries in support of RS EVA 62.
Emergency Role and Response Review: Today, all crewmembers participated in an Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review. Items of discussion included crew accountability, access to escape vehicles, and ISS Commander responsibilities. Due to the complex nature of emergencies in space, it is imperative each crewmember is fully familiar with the various emergency procedures and strategies in place.
