
FLame Extinguishment Experiment-2JAXA (FLEX-2J) Preparations:  Virts prepared the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) for the FLEX-2J activities scheduled later in the Increment. To access the Low Light Level (LLL)-Ultraviolet (UV) Imaging Package, he rotated the CIR Optics Bench then secured the LLL-UV Imaging Package on the Maintenance Work Area (MWA).  He then installed the LLL-Infrared (IR) filter in the Imaging Package and reinstalled the updated Imaging Package back into the CIR Optics Bench, returning the CIR to the nominal configuration.  FLEX-2J studies the interactions of flames on the ignition (or non-ignition) and motion of millimeter-sized droplets. The experiment operates in the CIR and consists of a linear array of droplets, several of which are fixed, while the others are free to move along the support fiber. The fixed droplets are ignited and the resulting flame spread and motion of the droplets are observed with the CIR diagnostic cameras.
Ocular Health (OH): Kelly and Kornienko performed Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) with assistance from Crew Medical Officers (CMOs), Padalka assisting Kornienko and Cristoforetti assisting Kelly.  Following the OCT, Kelly and Cristoforetti performed a Free Float OCT exam to test the capability before performing an OCT during the Fluid Shifts experiment in the Service Module.  Specialists are evaluating the result of the free float exam.  Later this afternoon, Kelly and Kornienko will collect retinal images using the fundoscope with direction from remote guiders on the ground. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
On Board Training (OBT) Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) Drill: The 42S crew completed this OBT which is a review of procedures, hardware and communication methods necessary to manage a medical emergency on the ISS. Emergency medical equipment wZ deployed and the crew practiced CPR positioning to refresh familiararity with the procedure should it be required.
Microbial Capture Device (MCD) Coliform Water Sample Analysis: The crew completed in-flight microbiology water analysis and data recording from water samples taken on Tuesday. This activity is conducted following a 48 hour incubation period.
ISS Reboost:  A reboost using the 58P thrusters was completed to set up phasing requirements for 59P 4-orbit rendezvous and docking scheduled for April 28. Burn duration was 3 minutes, 3 seconds with a Delta-V of 0.40 meters/second. 

