
72 Progress (72P) Launch/Dock: 72P launched today from the Baikonur Cosmodrome at 6:01 AM CT. Following a 2-orbit rendezvous, the vehicle successfully docked to the ISS at 9:27 AM CT.  This vehicle brought two key components: a power cable and the Bartolomeo Trunnion Slip of Prevention devices, to ISS in support of Monday’s planned Extravehicular Activity (EVA).
The ISS Experience: The crew replaced the solid state drives that stores the saved recording files. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the ISS, and the international partnerships involved.  The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses. 
Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Protein Crystallization Growth (JAXA-PCG): The crew inserted the JAXA PCG 16 sample into the FROST 2 refrigerator unit. The objective of the JAXA PCG investigation is to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #54 Preparations: In preparation for Monday’s planned Truss Jumper EVA, the crew completed the following activities today:

Equipment Lock preparations.
EMU Cuff Checklist Printing
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3006 On-Orbit Fit Check Verification (OFV).
EVA camera setup

During the OFV, the crew donned their EMUs to ensure a proper fit before the upcoming EVA. Since each EMU contains exchangeable components, allowing each astronaut to adjust EMU fit to their individual preference, it is important to ensure the EMU fits as expected before they crew egress ISS.
Russian Audio Interface Unit (RAIU) 3 Removal: The crew removed RAIU-3 from the Node 3 Overhead 5 (NOD3O5) Rack to access the associated Address Connector. In order to support redundant communications between the Russian Segment and future US Crewed Vehicles, this Address Connector will be needed to complete installation of a communications cable later this year. Since RAIU-3 is not currently in use, it will be stowed as a spare.
Space Integrated Global Inertial Navigation System (SIGI) 2 Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew R&Rd SIGI-2 yesterday to recover additional, unused sensors in the Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) for data gathering purposes. The new SIGI-2 failed its Built-in-Tests (BIT) during checkout, however, and experts have declared it failed.  The crew was directed to re-install the old SIGI-2 earlier this morning and, after a successful activation and checkout, the unit is now providing good data to ISS systems.
Eye Exams: The US crew completed routine Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; In this case, the objects of interest are the crewmember’s eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 

