
Payloads
Biolab:  The crew searched and found a missing incubator inspection window.  The window has been installed in the desired location.  The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the Columbus laboratory. It’s used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
FLUIDICS: The crew set up the Fluidics experiment facility, however, due to some potential interference between one of the sample spheres and a connector, the first experiment run will not occur today as originally planned.  The ground team will discuss a forward plan.  The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
JAXA Video Take 8: The crew set up the hardware and participated in the JAXA video take 8 event with the ground.  JAXA EPO includes conducting cultural activities such as writing reports about and filming video of activities aboard the ISS. These tools can help inform the public about the importance of the ISS, JAXA’s Kibo module, and human spaceflight.
ManD Feedstock Resolution: The feedstock filament for the Manufacturing Device (ManD) is having difficulty feeding smoothly into the system.  The crew activity today is to manually feed the filament into the extruder in an attempt to recover nominal functionality.  ManD enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the MAND printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. MAND is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Micro-16: In a continuation of the Micro-16 experiment, the crew inspected the Micro-16 sample containers.  Loss of muscle mass and strength present a major challenge for astronauts on future long space voyages. Determining Muscle Strength in Space-flown Caenorhabditis elegans (Micro-16) uses this tiny worm to test whether decreased expression of muscle proteins is associated with decreased strength. The research team developed a new device to measure muscle strength in multiple generations of space-reared C. elegans worms and compare that strength to postflight muscle gene expression analyses.
MISSE-14 MSC (Material Sample Carrier) install: The crew installed the MISSE-14-NASA MSCs onto the JEMAL slide table.  The MISSE-14 hardware will later be passed through the JEM Airlock and installed onto its external location.  Materials International Space Station Experiment-14-NASA (MISSE-14-NASA) continues a series of tests by NASA Glenn Research Center on how the harsh environment of space affects the performance and durability of various materials. Each mission tests new materials and material configurations, and similar materials fly on multiple MISSE missions. MISSE-14-NASA exposes de-orbit, phase change and radiation shielding materials as well as 10 types of crop seeds to the space environment.
RTPCG-2 Microscopy Observation: The crew set up the microscope, observed and took imagery of the sample wells, and then returned the samples to SABL.  During the observation, several larger, well-defined crystals were seen. RTPCG-2 demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity produces high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 produces high-quality protein crystals for up to eight proteins for detailed analysis back on Earth.
Vascular Aging: As a continuation of the Vascular Aging experiment operations, the crew set up the hardware and reviewed the big picture words for the Vascular Aging oral glucose tolerance test.  Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Systems
Hard Upper Torso (HUT) Changeout: In preparation for future EVAs, the crew changed the HUT on EMU 3006 from an extra large to a medium.
Intravehicular Activity (IVA) Tool Box Labeling: The ISS Tool Box consists of five drawers, each filled with foam with the tool cut outs, each cut out labeled with the appropriate tool.  Drawers 1, 3, 4 & 5 needed new decals as well as label error correction, replacement with larger decals and color added to the labels for easier identification. Today the crew permanently installed new labeling decals on the appropriate drawers. 
63S Pre-Pack: The crew began pre-packing items for return on the 63S vehicle.  63S is scheduled to undock and return on April 17. 
Crew Quarters (CQ) Starboard Cleaning: In preparation for arrival of the 64S crew, the starboard CQ was cleaned including intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors.

