
Ocular Health (OH): Kelly and Kornienko performed the last of the activities for their Flight Day (FD) 10 Ocular Health session, completing ocular and cardiac ultrasound scans.  The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. The protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Aniso Tubule: Cristoforetti retrieved the Aniso samples from the CBEF and installed them on the Aquatic Habitat (AQH) microscope. Over the next two days, ground controllers will send commands and observe the samples.  Aniso Tubule examines growth modifications of Arabidopsis hypocotyls in space. Scientists will analyze the changes in dynamics of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins by observing Arabidopsis hypocotyls and microtubule-associated proteins with a fluorescence microscope.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurements: Virts and Cristoforetti completed this regularly scheduled task to measure air velocity in the JEM using the Velocicalc instrument. Measurements were taken in the overhead aft, starboard aft and starboard forward inlets.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status: Ground controllers have attempted a couple of UPA process cycles today which effectively generated no water.  The teams believe this is due to a higher than normal amount of air in the system.  The team continue to work on a plan to regain the UPA functionality. 
Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Status:  The WPA is currently reprocessing due to high conductivity levels.  Based upon the ground team’s recommendation, the Gas Separator temperatures were raised to 175 F prior to attempting another reprocess cycle.  Conductivity decreased below 50 µmhos/cm after 12 hours in process.   However the conductivity levels have been trending higher throughout the day, with no commanded changes to the system.  The teams are reviewing the data to determine the forward plan.

