
Meteor Troubleshooting and Camera Installation:  Williams performed troubleshooting on the Meteor payload software issues that were experienced yesterday, but the troubleshooting was unsuccessful.  He then began installing the hardware into the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).  The hardware installation was partially completed, with the camera and the WORF hatch remaining to be installed. Meteor’s first primary science target is the Lyrid meteor shower peak on April 22, GMT day 113. Meteor is a new payload with the objective to fly a visible spectroscopy instrument to the ISS for the primary purpose of observing meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust such as size, density, and chemical composition. Since the parent comets or asteroids for most of the meteor showers are identified, the study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about those comets and asteroids. Meteor plans to operate for 2 years.
 
Rodent Research-3 (RR-3) Life Science Hardware Setup in Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): In preparation for RR-3 operations, Kopra installed the life science filters, floor coverings, back plate, and other required equipment in the MSG. He also set up a camcorder to capture High Definition cabin video of the operations. RR-3 is a Joint USOS Experiment (JUE) performed with both USOS and Russian crew members and studies molecular and physical changes in the musculoskeletal system that happen in space. Results expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
 
General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) 2 Desiccant Pack Swap: In preparation for SpaceX-8 payload investigations, Peake replaced used desiccant packs with new packs as part of standard conditioning.
 
Biological Rhythms 48 Multi Media Card (MMC) Exchange: Williams exchanged the MMC and battery and began the second 24-hour measurement process. The objective of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Biological Rhythms 48 is to study the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: Kopra submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the International Space Station. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Remove & Replace (R&R): On Monday the Node 3 MCA failed.  Teams reviewed the data and determined that the Data Control Assembly (DCA) experienced an internal Circuit Card Assembly (CCA) failure and recommended replacing ORU1.  This morning the crew R&Rd the ORU1 with an available spare on orbit.  MCA was successfully brought up to operate and is currently stabilizing and awaiting calibration before readings are taken.  The removed ORU will be returned to the ground for refurbishment.
 

