
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Advance Recycle Filter Tank Assembly (ARFTA) Change Out and Shock:  Commander (CDR) Wakata and Flight Enginer (FE)-3 Swanson removed ARFTA serial number (S/N) 1 and installed S/N 2.  Swanson then started a series of activities to shock ARFTA S/N 2 using pretreated water from the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC).  The shock treatment targeted microbial contamination which needed to be addressed before the ARFTA could be used with the UPA.   Following the shock, Swanson swapped the ARFTA tanks to re-install S/N 1.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Repair: FE-5 Mastracchio completed the BASS-II hardware repair started last Friday. Mastracchio conducted a fan calibration and then placed kapton tape around the outer edge of the BASS-II door, completely sealing the window. Mastracchio completed a fan calibration and conducted airflow readings. Ground teams will analyze the airflow readings against the ones taken prior to the repair last Friday before determining when BASS-II operations can resume. On February 20th, the BASS-II door experienced heat damage when burning a double-sided, 3 mm thick sample in a different flow configuration. The BASS-II investigation examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The BASS-II experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) Trips:  There were three RPCM trips overnight. They do not appear to be related.  LA2B-G RPC 1 and LAS62B-A RPC 7 initially appear to be hybrid Field Event Transistor (FET) events.  Initial troubleshooting on these RPCMs was completed. LAD62B-A appears to be an overcurrent event. Teams are meeting to determine follow-on troubleshooting steps for all three RPCM trips.

LA2B-G RPC 1 controls the Lab Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) regenerative 3-way mix valve.  Troubleshooting was performed to close the RPC but it immediately tripped open again.  This was repeated 5 times with the same results.  To control Lab MTL temperatures, Mastracchio manually moved the regen 3-way mix valve to bypass, then the ground pre-emptively commanded the Lab ITCS to dual mode.
LAS62B-A RPC 7 controls the Lab MTL Nitrogen Introduction Assembly (NIA). Troubleshooting was performed to close the RPC, but it immediately tripped open again.  This was repeated 5 times with the same results.
LAD62B-A RPC 12 controls the Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) valves for the Lab CDRA.  The Lab CDRA was in Standby at the time of the trip.  No troubleshooting was performed on this RPC today. The next planned operations for the Lab CDRA are this weekend.

Orbital-2 Cygnus Pre-Gather:  The crew continued gathering hardware and foam that will be loaded into Cygnus for disposal. These items are being pre-staged in the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Endcone.  Orbital-2 is scheduled to arrive in May.

