
55 Progress (P) Launch and Dock:  55P successfully launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome today at 10:26am CDT.  After a nominal ascent and four orbit rendezvous, the spacecraft docked to the ISS DC-1 docking port at 4:14pm CDT.  The Progress is delivering more than 1300 kg of cargo to the ISS.
Ocular Health: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Swanson completed his Flight Day 10 Ocular Health vision test. Wakata assisted Swanson obtain ultrasound images of his eyes. These images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. Wakata also helped Swanson conduct a cardiac echo as part of the Ocular Health data collection. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Node 3 (N3) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Maintenance (Day 2):  Today was the second day of the three day task to clean N3 CDRA desiccant/adsorbent bed 201.  The crew retrieved the CDRA components from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) where they were stowed overnight, then cleaned the bed and replaced the filter.  The bed successfully passed leak check and the crew re-installed it into the frame.  Tomorrow the crew will reinstall the hardware in the N3 Air Revitalization (AR) rack.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU)/Airlock Cooling Loop Flush, Sampling Operations: Wakata successfully completed the first set of EMU airlock flushes which are being done to mitigate silica contamination of the EMU and Airlock Cooling Loops.  Flushes on EMUs 3005 and 3010 were completed and recharged with fresh water from Payload Water Reservoirs.  A water sample from EMU 3010 was collected for return and ground analysis. Silica was identified during ground testing of previously returned EMU hardware, which indicated a higher level of non-reactive silica.   This non-reactive silica may not be scrubbed out by the EMU Ion Filter used in the Cooling Loop Maintenance procedure.

