
SpX-14 Mission:  At 5:40 am CDT this morning, the ISS crew used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to capture the Dragon vehicle. This capture marked the first use of Forced Based Capture, a software enhancement to the Latching End Effector (LEE) that reduces loads on the snare cables, during SpaceX operations. Ground specialists maneuvered the Dragon to the preinstall position and performed an inspection of the Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (PCBM) prior to installation at Node2 Nadir at 9:07 AM CDT. Successful vestibule pressurization, leak checks, vestibule outfitting, and CBM Control Panel Assembly (CPA) rotation support tomorrow morning’s scheduled ingress.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Tether Slosh: Today the crew set up the SPHERES Tether Slosh hardware but communication issues between the antenna and the SPHERES robots prevented successful completion of all of the test sessions.  Ground teams are investigating.  SPHERES Tether Slosh combines fluid dynamics equipment with robotic capabilities aboard the International Space Station to investigate automated strategies for steering passive cargo that contain fluids. In space, the fluid fuels used by spacecraft can slosh around in unpredictable ways making space maneuvers difficult. This investigation uses two SPHERES robots tethered to a fluid-filled container covered in sensors to test strategies for safely steering spacecraft such as dead satellites that might still have fuel in the tank. 
Space Test Program – H5 (STP-H5) Innovative Coatings Experiment (ICE): The crew photographed the external ICE material strips on STP-H5 through the Cupola and Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) windows today.  The harsh radiation and extreme temperatures of space can corrode the paint and coatings that protect spacecraft exteriors, potentially damaging a spacecraft’s hull. Optical coatings are also important for robotic and human navigators, who would rely on specialized markings to capture or repair spacecraft. The STP-H5 ICE investigation studies new coatings for use on spacecraft in low Earth orbit, determining their stability after 2 years in space.  Photographs are taken at 60 day intervals.  
Veg-03: Today the crew watered the plants and continued with the photo-documentation of plant growth for the Veg-03 investigation. Veg-03 supports the proof-of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and the planting pillows. Future long duration space missions will require a fresh food supply grown in space to supplement crew diets.
Lighting Effects: The crew obtained light meter readings in Node 2 and the Columbus module today.  The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance.
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2): To support the MT-2 investigation, a 53S crewmember collected his Flight Day 105 saliva samples and inserted them into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The MT-2 series continues the monitoring of the types of microbes that are present on the ISS.  It seeks to catalog and characterize potential disease-causing microorganisms onboard the ISS. Crew pre-flight, in-flight, and post-flight samples and environmental samples are collected to identify any associations between the microbial content of the samples, as well as potential health effects. 
Food Acceptability: A crewmember completed a Food Acceptability questionnaire today. The Food Acceptability investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 

