
Payloads
Cell Biology Experiment Facility – Left (CBEF-L):  In support of the SAIBO logistics and maintenance configuration G, the crew verified various cable connections related to a temperature sensor.  CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
GRASP:  The crew performed multiple GRASP sessions including VV, VM, MM protocols in the quasi free-floating configuration.  The purpose of the Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance:  Reaching and Grasping (GRASP) investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
VV = Visual – Visual (visual stimulus – visual response)
VM = Visual – Manual (visual stimulus – manual response)
MM = Manual – Manual (manual stimulus – manual response)
ISS HAM: The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with the School of Information Technology & Mathematical Sciences in the City of Salisbury.  The school was officially opened in 2000 with around 80 students but has grown over the years to its current number of 765.  It’s It is a very multicultural school with approximately 45 nationalities represented in its student population.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
RTPCG-2 Microscopy observation: The crew set up the microscope, observed and took imagery of the sample wells, and then returned the samples to SABL.  RTPCG-2 demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity produces high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 produces high-quality protein crystals for up to eight proteins for detailed analysis back on Earth.
T2AR Sidekick and Decal install: As a continuation of the T2AR setup, the crew applied reference images (decals) at the proper location.  They also configured the T2AR sidekick system.  Autonomous Systems and Operations (T2 Treadmill Augmented Reality Procedures or simply T2AR) conducts tests using augmented reality to help crew members perform inspection and maintenance on the Combined Operational Load Bearing External Resistance Treadmill (COLBERT). The ability to perform such tasks without assistance from Mission Control is vital for future space exploration such as a mission to Mars, where significant time delays occur in communications between space and ground. Using augmented reality to guide astronauts through complex spacecraft maintenance and repair activities also reduces the time needed for training and task performance.
VEG Water Bag Audit: The crew audited the quantity of Veggie water bags remaining or orbit.  This will allow the ground team to determine if any additional bags need to be flown to support future plant growth experiments.  The Vegetable Production System (Veggie) is a deployable plant growth unit capable of producing salad-type crops to provide the crew with a palatable, nutritious, and safe source of fresh food and a tool to support relaxation and recreation. The Veggie provides lighting and nutrient delivery and utilizes the cabin environment for temperature control and as a source of carbon dioxide to promote growth. Veggie is also used for fundamental space biology experiments such as the series Advanced Plant Experiments (APEX) and educational space biology activities.
Systems
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Battery Operations Terminal (EBOT) Modification: The crew attempted to install the EBOT on February 10, however there was an interference between the EBOT Battery Stowage Compartment (BSC) and an Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) water line within the Airlock Avionic Rack.  The BSC was modified and the interference was eliminated.  Today, the crew successfully installed the BSC and routed the cables.  Batteries are scheduled to be inserted for charging operations tomorrow.
Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) Modification for Crew Alternate Sleep Accommodation (CASA): CASA is a crew accommodation to allow for long duration stay, permanent shelter, privacy, rest and relaxation, and storage of personal items for a fifth crew member as well as stowage when a 5thcrewmember is not present.  CASA is going to be installed at a COL ZSR rack, however ground teams discovered that there is an interference between the Knee Brace Bracket at the back of the module and the CASA Radiation Shield.  Today the crew successfully executed a cutting procedure using a drill and chisel to remove a roughly 1 cm cubed portion of the high density polyethylene material on the CASA panel 6 to eliminate the area of interference.  CASA installation is scheduled for tomorrow.
Crew Arrival Preparations: The crew began gathering and staging suitcases and other preference items for the crew scheduled to arrive on 64S this Friday.

