
Payloads:
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS-3D): The DOSIS-3D Passive Detector Packages (PDPs) were photographed before and after relocation to the Service Module ceiling area. DOSIS-3D uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS. 
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance: Reaching and Grasping (GRASP): Following the completion of the science sessions earlier in the week, today the GRASP hardware was stowed. The purpose of the GRASP investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
Grip: Following the completion of the Grip science sessions earlier in the week, the Grip hardware was stowed. The Grip experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements such as oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements, and tapping gestures.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): The fiber optic cable spool and preform were exchanged twice, and the ground initiated two runs in an increased nitrogen environment. The preform is a cylindrical rod of raw material from which the fiber is pulled. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
Space Station Computer (SSC) 20 and 22 Swap: Today, the crew moved SSC 20 from Dragon to LAB and moved SSC 22 from LAB to Dragon. SSCs are swapped regularly to ensure that International Procedures Viewer (IPV) backups are applied to SSCs remaining in Dragon for emergency situations. SSCs are the laptops associated with non-command activities onboard the ISS.

