
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Troubleshooting:  On Monday, Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) LAD62B_A RPC 12 experienced a trip.  This RPC powers six selector valves internal to the Lab CDRA.  Today, troubleshooting was performed with Mastracchio accessing the Atmosphere Revitalization (AR) rack through the Trace Contaminant Control System (TCCS) opening. He inspected and verified there was no water within the rack and confirmed all connectors were fully seated. The RPC was closed and has remained closed. CDRA was activated and will run for 2 half cycles after which engineering teams will review the data and verify there are no abnormal signatures.
Payload Water Reservoir (PWR) Fills:  Flight Engineer Swanson filled 4 PWRs from the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) in preparation for future Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) operations. The previous source of water for EMU operations was the Shuttle Orbiter Repackaged Galley (SORG).  Due to the retirement of the Space Shuttle, as well as recent EMU water-related contamination events, this supply of EMU Feedwater is gone and/or unusable.
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-M-1 Sample Installation: On March 24th, Wakata experienced issues with mixing an ACE-M-1 sample.This week he configured the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) in the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) for an experiment run and successfully mixed the ACE-M-1 sample using a different technique than what was used on the previous sample run. Payload Developers will take snapshots of the sample over the next couple of days and assess the data. The ACE-M-1 studies the behavior of microscopic particles in gels and creams. Many consumer products are colloidal mixtures with stabilizers added to make them last longer but eventually, particles clump together and sink to the bottom in a process known as coarsening which can spoil the product.The ISS is an ideal location to study the physics of coarsening which could lead to manufacturing longer lasting products.
Hybrid Training Part Two: Wakata donned the Hybrid Training hardware which provides electrical impulses to his non-dominant arm during concentric and eccentric arm motions. The electrical impulses help simulate the resistance that gravity would provide on the ground. This was Wakata’s second of twelve Hybrid Training sessions. Hybrid Training will be used for Wakata’s upper limbs (the non-dominant arm) for four weeks, and his muscular strength and bulk will be compared to those of his dominant arm to examine its orbital operation capability utility, as well as the preventive for muscle atrophy. Hybrid Training can become a useful back-up for the standard training device on the ISS. It can also be a useful training device in small space ships for the exploration of the Moon and Mars.
Body Measures Investigation: Swanson, with help from Wakata,conducted his Flight Day 15 session of Body Measures. Swanson set up body marker instrumentation and took calibration and body pose pictures, along with circumference measurements. Swanson then recorded a neutral body posture video. The goal of this study is to gather data to better understand the magnitude and variability of changes due to microgravity and fluid shifts within the human body during long-duration space flight. Results of the investigation may result in changes to space suit fit and sizing, workstation design, etc. for future missions to maximize performance, prevent injury, and reduce crew time to accommodate their anthropometrics.

