
SpX-14 Mission: After yesterday’s successful capture and berthing of Dragon, the crew ingressed the vehicle early this morning and began cargo transfer operations. Once the crew finishes unloading the center stack, they will transfer SpX-14 cold stowage into ISS assets and begin installation and activation of several payloads delivered by the vehicle.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) SpX-14 Operations: Later today, ground robotic specialist will release the Dragon vehicle and unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM).  Finally, the Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP) will be configured to support tomorrow’s operations to extract the Pump and Flow Control Subassembly (PFCS) and Materials International Space Station Experiment (MISSE) from the Dragon trunk.
Mouse Stress Defense:  The crew completed final preparations and then transferred the mice arriving on the SpaceX-14 vehicle from the Transportation Cage Unit to the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) to start the Mouse Stress Defense investigation.  Microgravity provokes cellular mechanical stresses and perturbs cellular signaling, leading to reduction of muscle and bone density. To overcome these stresses, one of the promising strategies is to activate Nrf2, a master regulator of antioxidant pathway. Mouse Stress Defense investigates how Nrf2 contributes to effective prevention of space-originated stresses. 
NanoRacks Plate Reader:  The crew validated and calibrated the NanoRacks Plater Reader-2 today.  This is in preparation for its use with the Metabolic Tracking-2 investigation.  NanoRacks Plate Reader-2 is a laboratory instrument designed to detect biological, chemical or physical events of samples in microtiter plates. Microplate readers are widely used in research, drug discovery, bioassay validation, quality control and manufacturing processes in the pharmaceutical and biotechnological industry and academic organizations. 
Multi-Use Variable-G Platform (MVP):  The crew installed the MVP hardware that arrived on the SpaceX-14 vehicle into EXPRESS Rack (ER) 8 in the US Laboratory.  MVP is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others.  It includes 2 internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity. Each carousel hosts 6 separate removable experiment modules on each carousel. Video and still imagery, including microscopy, can be included. The platform provides temperature and humidity controls and monitors and records oxygen and carbon dioxide levels. 
Tangolab-1 and -2:  The crew installed the Tangolab-2 facility in EXPRESS Rack ER 6 in the US Laboratory and performed several payload card placements in the TangoLab-1 & 2 facilities. TangoLab-1 and TangoLab-2 lockers are reconfigurable general research facilities designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS. 

