
Payloads:
Human Research Facility Veggie Profile of Mood States (Veggie POMS): A POMS short form questionnaire was completed using the Data Collection Tool (DCT). The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veggie) investigation is a phased research project that includes Veg-04A, Veg-04B, Veg-05, and HRF Veg including HRF Veggie Profile of Mood States (POMS) questionnaires. This work addresses the need for a system to produce healthy, fresh food on future long-duration exploration missions to supplement the standard pre-packaged astronaut diet. HRF Veg uses psychological surveys and crew evaluations of the flavor and appeal of plants grown for other investigations on the ISS to focus on the overall behavioral health benefits to crew members of having various plants and fresh food in space.
Monoclonal Antibodies Protein Crystal Growth-2 (PCG-2): Microscopy was performed on two 96-well experiment cards to observe the droplets and any crystals that have formed. Screening and Batch Manufacture of Complex Biotherapeutics in Microgravity (Monoclonal Antibodies PCG-2) examines the crystallization process for various biotherapeutics, including monoclonal antibodies, in microgravity. Crystallization could significantly reduce production costs and enable formulations of biotherapeutics that do not need cold storage and that can be administered more easily, such as by injection rather than intravenous administration.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The crew gained access to the MSL furnace area, and exchanged Sample Cartridge Assemblies (SCAs). The partially processed Growth of Ternary Compound Semiconductor-C1 (GTCS-C1) SCA was removed and the GTCS-C2 SCA was installed. GTCS grows semiconductor crystals based on zinc selenide (ZnSe) compounds in microgravity. ZnSe-based crystals have potential applications for high-power lasers operating in infrared wavelengths. The investigation compares structural quality of crystals grown on Earth and in microgravity to establish how gravity-driven fluid flows contribute to formation of various types of crystalline defects.
Systems:
69S Relocation: Today, the 69S crew relocated 69 Soyuz (69S) from MRM2 to the RS Node (NM) port to allow for RS EVAs to be performed from MRM2 starting in April and to clear the MRM2 docking port for the arrival of Progress 84P in late May. Undocking and physical separation of the 69S from the ISS occurred at 3:45 AM CDT. Soft dock to the RS NM port occurred at 4:22 AM CDT. Following dock, leak checks were completed and the 69S hatch was opened at 6:51 AM CDT. Shortly after, the 69S crew safely ingressed into ISS.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) EV Crew Options Kit (ECOK) Reconfiguration: In preparation for the upcoming RFG Retrieval EVA, crew specific EVA hardware was unstowed from the Crew-6 Dragon and configured into their ECOKs. The ECOK consists of a green mesh bag and contains EV crew preference items worn in the EMU such as MAGs, Moleskin, Mosite, Fresnel Lenses, Valsalvas, TCUs, Mission patches, EV stripes, etc.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: The crew performed a monthly WinSCAT Test. The test is a screen tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking, and spatial processing. 
