
63 Progress (63P) Docking: 63P docked successfully to the Service Module (SM) Aft docking port on Saturday. Capture occurred at 12:57 PM CDT with hook closure at 1:03 PM CDT.
 
Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) Installation: On Sunday, Peake installed 2 canisters containing 38 protein samples into the PCRF to obtain high quality protein crystals in the microgravity environment. Results obtained by JAXA will contribute to the development of drugs for the influenza virus, Alzheimer’s disease, muscular dystrophy and periodontitis. They will also aid in the development of a blood substitute and a new energy creating enzyme.
 
Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) Adapter: Williams supported Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) EFU Adapter installation to EFU #5. He activated the JEMRMS Robotics Laptop 2 (RLT2) and RMS monitors before opening the outer hatch and extending the Slide Table (ST) with the EFU Adapter to the JEF side. The ST was then retracted and the outer hatch was closed. JAXA’s EFU Adapter is a new type of JEM exposed facility platform used as an interface between JEM Exposed Facility Unit and payloads. Up to 2 payloads can be attached to EFU Adapter by IVA (Inter-Vehicular Activity) in JPM.
Muscle Atrophy Research and Exercise System (MARES): Peake deployed MARES from the stowed configuration to the on-orbit deployed configuration before installing the mechanisms specific to the ankle configuration. MARES is a European Space Agency (ESA) system that will be used for research on musculoskeletal, biomechanical, and neuromuscular human physiology to better understand the effects of microgravity on the muscular system. MARES is a Joint USOS Experiment (JUE) performed with both USOS and Russian crew members.
 
Advanced Research Thermal Passive Exchange (ARTE): Kopra performed a visual inspection and activated the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) facility prior to installing the Thermal Exchange hardware in the MSG work volume. Kopra then transferred data for downlink before removing and stowing the Thermal Exchange hardware from the MSG. The ARTE investigation is sponsored by the Italian Space Agency (ASI) and studies the performance of a new type of heat pipe, which is a passive, low-weight device used to increase a material’s heat transfer capability. The investigation researches a new technology, called Axially Grooved Heat Pipes, which could be integrated into existing spacecraft, as well as used for future missions.
 
Biological Rhythms 48 Actiwatch Preparation: Williams configured Actiwatch and placed on his wrist when the measurement process automatically began. The JAXA Biological Rhythms experiment studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours. While the ISS keeps Houston time, it remains unknown whether a separate biological rhythm is imposed on long-term flight crews. To study this, astronauts wear an Actiwatch sleep monitor for 96 hours and a Holter electrocardiograph for 48 hours in the middle of that sequence.
 
Urine Processing Assembly Pre-Treat: Engineering teams are investigating a discrepancy discovered last Friday in the numerical setting for the Pretreat Bad Quality Light (PTBQL) in the new electronics box procured specifically for alternate pretreat. The control unit is set to a higher value than required, which the PTBQL would illuminate even at proper pre-treat dosage levels. The Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) pre-treat tank Remove & Replace (R&R) scheduled for Wednesday is being deferred until the issue can be addressed.
 
Node 3 Major Constituents Analyzer (MCA) anomaly:  The Node 3 MCA experienced an unplanned shutdown today.  Ground teams failed to restart the system and placed the MCA in idle mode.  Secondary CO2 sensors are being used for now, and the forward plan is in work.
 

