
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL): The crew opened the gas and vacuum lines as part of the MSL water loop checkout. The MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. The MSL can accommodate and support diverse experiment modules. Many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack): The crew replaced a burned out Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiment (ACME) igniter for the Spherical Burner. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations/Battery Charge Discharge Unit (BCDU) Checkout: Overnight, Ground Controllers completed the BCDU R&R by removing the failed BCDU from the P4 Integrated Electronic Assembly (IEA) and replacing it with the spare BCDU. After completing a successful checkout of the new BCDU, the MSS stowed the failed BCDU back on the External Logistic Carrier (ELC)-1. Since the 4A3 Li-Ion battery was confirmed failed during the BCDU checkout, Ground Controllers removed the failed battery from the P4 IEA this morning and installed it on the H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) 7 External Pallet (EP). The extraction of the NiH2 battery at the P4 IEA slot 6 and relocation to slot 5 will occur this Friday with the remainder of battery relocation operations following Monday’s Truss Jumper EVA.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #54 Preparations: In preparation for Monday’s planned Truss Jumper EVA, the crew completed the following activities today:

Procedures review/conference with ground specialists.
Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) install and powered checkout. REBAs are used to power the glove heaters on the Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) and a successful checkout is required before the crew can go EVA.

Space Integrated Global Inertial Navigation System (SIGI) 2 Remove and Replace (R&R): The primary function of SIGI is to produce the GPS based position, velocity, and attitude outputs needed to control the ISS’s position in space.  Additional sensors inside of the SIGI-2 Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU), previously unused, have failed however, prompting today’s R&R to recover these sensors and allow the testing of a proposed Guidance, Navigation, and Control (GNC) software feature. While performing a checkout of the new hardware, ground experts saw Built in Test (BIT) faults and aborted activation. Teams continue to investigate the cause of the anomalous signature.
Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) Contingency On-Board Training (OBT): The 58S crew performed this OBT to review procedures, hardware and communication methods necessary to manage a medical emergency onboard the ISS. Emergency medical equipment was deployed and the crew practiced Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) positioning to ensure familiarity with procedure execution.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Quarterly Maintenance: The crew completed this regularly scheduled maintenance to inspect isolators, bottom corner hardware witness marks and bottom snubbers for signs of free play. No issues were identified during the activity. 

