
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): Routine periodic touching was performed for experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. Antimicrobial Coatings-2 tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months before returning to Earth for analysis.
Commercial Microgravity Protein Crystallization Services Development (LUCY): The crew set up the Lysozyme Crystallization Module (LCM) experiment hardware in the Node 2 area. Previous protein crystallization experiments demonstrated that microgravity enables production of large, high-quality protein crystals. Scientists use the data generated by these crystals to model diseases, treat genetic disorders, and develop new drugs. LUCY tests the first design of a fully automated facility that could decrease the cost and time needed to produce protein crystals. 
Cerebral Autoregulation (CA): In preparation for science activities later in the week, the crew set up the Portable Doppler (PDOP), laptop and other support hardware. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight, and provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): The crew collected xPWD water samples to be used for inflight Total Organic Carbon Analysis (TOCA), as well as other analyses on the ground. An on-orbit PWD, launched in Fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. A new system, the xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the International Space Station crew.
Manufacturing of Semiconductors and Thin-Film Integrated Coatings (MSTIC): The crew connected the MSTIC experiment hardware to ISS vacuum resources. This is the last setup step needed prior to the beginning of the science activities. MSTIC examines the effects of microgravity on deposited thin films used in semiconductor manufacturing. Manufacturing these films in microgravity may improve their quality and reduce the materials, equipment, and labor required. The investigation also explores differences in the microstructure of thin films produced in microgravity and on the ground.
Robotic Repair Satellite (RSat): The crew set up the lab camera to observe RSat science activities inside the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). RSat demonstrates a small satellite platform to survey and possibly repair larger conventional spacecraft on orbit. The CubeSat has robotic arms fitted with claws and cameras to obtain diagnostic information and is intended to operate in constant contact with a host spacecraft. Results could advance the use of robotic assistance on future space missions.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Helmet Rotation and Hard Upper Torso (HUT) Box Swap: Today, the crew performed an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) helmet rotation. For this activity, the crew unpacked a new helmet from its launch enclosure, performed an on-orbit inspection, and repacked an old helmet for return in the same launch enclosure box. Later, the crew performed a HUT Box swap by switching EMU HUT stowage boxes in preparation for HUT return on the SpaceX-30 Cargo Vehicle. The EMU helmet is the portion of the pressure suit providing a pressure vessel for the head. The HUT is the portion of the pressure suit that encloses the upper torso of the body. It provides the structural mounting interface for most of the EMU. 
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Filter Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew performed an R&R of the PWD’s filter and cleaned the exhaust fans’ outlets as part of preventive maintenance. The PWD filter On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) is composed of a de-iodination and microbial filter, which needs periodic replacement. 
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued transferring cargo from the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle to the ISS. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until later this month before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground.
ACY Inserts Kit Audit: Today, the crew performed an audit of the contents of the ACY Inserts inventory on ISS. The purpose of the audit was to determine the quantity of unopened kits, the remaining contents of any open kits, and quantity and contents of kits deployed near the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC). The results were reported to MCC-H for review. These audits are completed on a quarterly basis and afford ground teams a better understanding of crew usage rates. 
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain and Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS, as well as installed a new Brine Processor Bladder. 
