
Payloads:
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): The crew gained access to the BFF interior volume, performed print tip replacements and syringe exchanges. This will support upcoming biological printing science activities. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe. However, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed BFF to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Cerebral Autoregulation (CA): The crew set up the Portable Doppler (PDOP), performed a CA science session, and stowed the hardware. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight, and provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The crew participated in a Robotic On-Board Trainer-research (ROBoT-r) session in support of the CIPHER suite of investigations. CIPHER aims to improve our understanding of physiological and psychological changes in humans on missions that range from weeks to one year in duration. Conducting the same research over missions of different durations allows scientists to extrapolate to multi-year missions, such as a three-year round-trip to Mars. These data could provide deeper knowledge about changes that may occur on such missions and support development of countermeasures to promote astronaut health and well-being.
Human Brain Organoid Models for Neurodegenerative Disease & Drug Discovery (HBOND): The crew assisted with microscopy of the Tissue Chambers in Habitat X. HBOND studies the mechanisms behind neuroinflammation, a common feature of neurodegenerative disorders. The research creates organoid models of regions of the human brain that are affected by neurodegenerative diseases, using neurons and microglia derived from patient and control induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). Results could improve understanding of the effects of spaceflight on the brain and help address the significant global health burden of neurodegenerative disease on Earth by providing a platform to study these diseases and possible treatments.
ISS Ham: The crew participated in a radio contact with Collège Théodore Monod in Gagny, France. Some of the questions asked by the 14- to 15-year-old students included the effect of cultural diversity on the crew’s life in space, the most interesting scientific experiment the crew has performed, and if the crew has seen any aurora borealis from space. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): Following the 2-day incubation period, the xPWD water sample was assessed for Coliform contamination. An on-orbit PWD, launched in Fall 2008, provides water for crew consumption and food preparation on the ISS. A new system, the xPWD, reflects advances in water sanitization methods and microbial growth reduction and includes a heater to dispense hot water. Successful demonstration of this technology could lead to its adoption for future exploration missions and continued use for the International Space Station crew.
Systems:
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued transferring cargo from the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle to the ISS. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until later this month before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap: Today, the crew reconfigured EMUs on EMU Don-Doff Assemblies (EDDA) for upcoming activities. This included the installation and subsequent removal of the Lower Torso Assembly (LTA) Restraint Strap and LTA Stowage Bag on the EMU for bundling and transferring. Additionally, the crew removed of the LTA Restraint Strap and LTA Stowage Bag for stowing the EMU unbundled on the EDDA. The EDDA provides restraint of the EMU during EVA prep and post activities, as well as stowage of the EMU when it is not being used.
71S Soyuz Video Distribution Subsystem (VDS) External High Definition Camera (EHDC) Survey: The ground team configured the VDS for EHDC camera views and performed an external survey of 71S. The survey consisted of taking images of the Soyuz vehicle at the Node Module (NM) docking port to verify the Soyuz thermal protection system. The team looked for any physical indicators that could impact 71S Undock later this year.
