
PrK Hatch Open: This morning, the crew opened hatches to the PrK and Progress 87P according to the plan. After the hatches were open, the crew completed transfers of gas and water from Progress 87P to the ISS. The PrK hatch will remain open until tomorrow afternoon.
Payloads:
ADvanced Space Experiment Processor-2 Pharmaceutical In-space Laboratory-02 and -03 (ADSEP-PIL-02 and -03): The crew gained access to the ADSEP-2 facility and exchanged the experiment cassettes in modules B and C. They also took photos of these experiment activities being performed. More information on the PIL-02 experiment can be found here and information on the PIL-03 experiment is here. 
BioFabrication Facility (BFF) – Cardiac: The crew gathered items and reviewed procedures to prepare for additional BFF-Cardiac printing activities. The ground team reported the second of four smart pumps was clogged, but the crew proceeded with science activities with the two remaining smart pumps. More information on this experiment can be found here.
ISS Ham: The crew participated in a radio contact with the Tooele County School District, Tooele in UT, USA. Approximately 400 students were physically present during the contact, which was also livestreamed throughout the district and to the public via YouTube. More information on this experiment can be found here.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-28 (J-SSOD-28): The crew completed the first of two days to install the satellite launcher and associated hardware onto the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table. J-SSOD-28 will be passed through the JEMAL, maneuvered robotically to a deploy position, and launch three satellites later this week. Satellite deploys will occur in two windows, with the CURTIS satellite launching in the first window, and KASHIWA and MicroOrbiter-1 launching in the second window.
Robotic Repair Satellite (RSat): The crew set up the Lab camera to observe RSat science activities inside the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). The science team was not able to grasp a ring-shaped target in today’s session, but reported the session went well overall. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Tomatosphere 8: The crew gathered the two Tomatosphere 8 seed bags and took videos of them floating in the Cupola. Tomatosphere 8 consists of a shipment of 1.2 million tomato seeds which remain on the ISS for a period of time, and then returned to the ground. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued transferring cargo from the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle to the ISS. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until April 26th before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground. 
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain and Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew conducted routine maintenance to R&R the WHC UR and IF. As part of the R&R, the crew cleaned the WHC power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance. The UR On-orbit Replacement Unit (ORU) consists of a replaceable Russian-supplied funnel, urine hose, and a receptacle switch for turning the WHC on/off and the associated wiring.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Solar Eclipse Event: Today, the crew configured Z9 Cameras for taking pictures of the Sun when partially eclipsed. The crew also practiced taking imagery of the sun with the solar filter. Next, the crew participated in a live PAO event as a part of the NASA TV broadcast of the eclipse from Great Lakes Science Center in Cleveland, Ohio. From 2:26 – 2:46 PM CDT the Moon’s umbra on Earth will be visible, with 94% of the Sun obscured from view.
