
MELFI (Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS): A crewmember completed the last part of the MELFI 2 Dewar 3 cleanup.  The Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) is a cold storage unit that maintains experiment samples at ultra-cold temperatures throughout a mission.
The ISS Experience:  Crewmembers performed an ISS Experience crew log recording and a recording with a crewmember using the Treadmill. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses. 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Cleanup: The last session of the Biophysics experiment performed on February 16 resulted in two broken glass capillaries on one of the plates as well as on the LMM lens. Today a crewmember cleaned the glass off the surfaces with wet wipes while another crew member vacuumed any loose particles. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #54 Preparations: In preparation for Monday’s scheduled USOS EVA #54, Truss Jumper EVA, the crew completed the following activities today:

Continue with final tool configuration.
Printing of final EVA procedures.
Transfer of EVA hardware, both Trunnion Slip Off Prevention (TSOP) devices and the S3 power cable, from 72 Progress.  

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Later tonight, robotics ground controllers will continue channel 4A3 recovery operations using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to relocate a NiH2 battery from 4A Integrated Electronics Assembly (IEA) slot 6 (4A3-2) to slot 5 (4A3-1). Following the relocation, SPDM will be stowed and SSRMS will execute a double walk-off in preparation for Monday’s US EVA #45 Truss Jumper EVA.  
Nitrogen / Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Tank Uninstall: The crew worked with MCC-H to terminate the transfer of Oxygen from the NORS Recharge Tank to the High Pressure Gas Tanks (HPGTs) located around the Airlock module. They removed the fill hose and regulator, then uninstalled and stowed the tank for return on a future cargo vehicle. 
Solid State Lighting Assembly (SSLA) Installation:  The crew upgraded the light at the Japanese Experiment Logistics Module-Pressurized Section (JLP) 1FP1 location with a new SSLA.  Designed to replace General Luminaire Assemblies (GLAs), the new SSLAs improve visual acuity and to provide a crew health countermeasure for circadian rhythms, sleep, alertness and performance. To accomplish these goals, SSLAs are designed to operate in three modes providing three distinct spectrums of light; the different spectrums provide control of the blue portion of the light, which affects melatonin production in humans, that can impact sleep.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Inter Module Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning: The crew cleaned the JEM IMV starboard forward fan and associated IMV grille as part of scheduled preventative maintenance. The IMV flow rates must be great enough to ensure that the IMV fan is operating outside of the stall region which reduces airflow and increases fan acoustic noise, and excessive dust buildup can cause this phenomenon. The effectivity of today’s cleaning will be checked during the next set of IMV flow measurements.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Live Event: David Saint-Jacques participated in a live PAO event with high school students participating in the FIRST Robotics Festival.  Located in Quebec City, Canada, this festival hosts the regional finals of the FIRST competition and is Canada’s largest high school robotics competition.  Students used this opportunity to connect with the ISS and ask David Saint-Jacques questions about living and working and space and the future of space exploration.

