
Payloads:
AstroPi: The 5mm camera lens was installed on the AstroPi Vis unit and the unit was relocated to the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF) location for Earth observations. More information on this experiment (AstroPi) can be found here.
Cerebral Autoregulation: The Cardiolab Portable Doppler (CDL PDOP) and European Physiology Modules Facility Continuous Blood Pressure Device (EPM CBPD) Kit were setup along with cables and laptop in preparation for future measurement operations. More information on this experiment (Cerebral Autoregulation) can be found here.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Echo ultrasound data collection and blood pressure measurements were completed. More information on the current experiment (CIPHER) can be found here.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): The ELF cartridge containing the latest melted sample “UYNA” was removed and replaced with the “Interfacial Energy” sample holder. More information on the current experiment (ELF) can be found here.
Genomic Enumeration of Antibiotic Resistance in Space (GEARS): Bacterial samples were collected and transferred to the GEARS Media Plate. More information on the current experiment (GEARS) can be found here.
ISS Ham Radio: ISS Ham contact was made with Mountain View Elementary, Marietta, GA. More information on this experiment (ISS Ham Pass) can be found here.  
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer System-27 (NRCSD-27): Seven CubeSats were deployed and crewmembers performed observations and video imagery. NRCSD is a self-contained CubeSat deployer system for small satellites staged from the ISS. The NRCSD utilizes the ISS Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) as a staging facility for operation.
Thigh Cuff: Thigh Cuff hardware was gathered and assembled in preparation for upcoming Thigh Cuff donning and measurement activities. More information on the current experiment (Thigh Cuff) can be found here.
Systems:
SpaceX-30 Cargo Dragon Thermal Protection System (TPS) Inspection: Robotics Ground Controllers completed of the TPS survey for the SpaceX-30 Cargo Dragon using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). TPS inspections are performed on returning vehicles prior to undock from the ISS to ensure the vehicle is in a good configuration for re-entry. 
Robotics Proficiency On Board Training (OBT): The crew reviewed the robotics OBT self-study session today. The Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. Robotics proficiency requires the crew to have hands-on real-time operations or OBTs within 60 days and the ROBoT sessions are designed to help maintain this proficiency.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Surface Sample Kit (SSK) Collection/Incubation: Samples for microbial analysis were taken from ISS surfaces using the Surface Sample Kit (SSK). These samples will be incubated on media slides and in Petri dishes, giving medical personnel a gauge of microbial growth on surfaces of the ISS. The EHS monitors the atmosphere for gaseous contaminants from nonmetallic materials off-gassing, combustion products, and propellants, microbial contaminants from crew members and Station activities, water quality, acoustics, and radiation levels. 
Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) Breathe Down Checkout: Today, crewmember experience data was gathered during a PBA breathe down test. This test is to help characterize performance objectives that may be used to delineate when a crew member should be ready to replace a PBA as it goes toward empty. PBAs used for this checkout will be completely discharged and packed for return at the end of the procedure. 
Water Resources and Management (WRM) Condensate Sample: The crew collected a condensate sample from the Condensate Sample Port at the Water Recovery System-2 (WRS-2) Utility Interface Panel (UIP). This procedure is performed when condensate is being collected into the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Waste Tanks because the lines leading to the WPA contain the most recently collected condensate. The WRM is used for water venting, water transfer activities, waste disposal, and water sampling for the USOS.
