
Cell Mechanosensing 3 (CMS-3) Operations: Following yesterday’s successful observation obtained by repositioning the thermal sample container to allow enough lighting through the microscope for imaging, the crew completed another microscope observation setting for CMS-3. CMS-3 is a JAXA investigation that identifies gravity sensors in skeletal muscle cells to develop countermeasures to muscle atrophy. Scientists believe that the lack of mechanical stress from gravity causes tension fluctuations in the plasma membrane of skeletal muscle cells which changes the expression of key proteins and genes and allows muscles to atrophy.
 
Ocular Health Cardiac Echo and Ultrasound 2 Exams: Crewmembers performed Ocular Health activities by configuring the Ultrasound 2 hardware used to conduct the echocardiogram and the Ultrasound eye exams. Operator assistance with remote guidance from the Ocular Health ground teams. The investigation gathers data on crew members’ visual health during and after long-duration space station missions. Tests monitor microgravity-induced visual impairment as well as changes believed to arise from elevated intracranial pressure to characterize how living in microgravity can affect the visual, vascular and central nervous systems. The investigation also measures how long it takes for crew members to return to normal after return to Earth.
 
Multi-Omics Operations:  The crew supported the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Multi-Omics investigation by collecting saliva samples and inserting them into a Box Module in the Minus Eight-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system.
 
Cognition Test Battery Operations: The crew powered on the HRF PC 3, launch the Cognition application and completed the Cognition test battery including pre-test questions and cognitive tests with performance feedback.  Cognition measures how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the International Space Station. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Wet Lab RNA SmartCycler Preparation: The crew completed hardware and software installations to support Wet Lab RNA SmartCycler operations by configuring the pantry T61p Laptop and SmartCycler hardware and loading the SmartCycler software onto the laptop. Wetlab RNA SmartCycler is a research platform for conducting real-time quantitative gene expression analysis aboard the ISS. The system enables spaceflight genomic studies involving a wide variety of biospecimen types in the unique microgravity environment of space.
 
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Transfer: Tonight Robotics Ground Controllers will transfer BEAM from the SpX-8 Dragon trunk to the Node 3 Aft Port.  Activities will include a Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Prep for Mate and inspection, BEAM extraction, maneuver to install position, CBM capture, and BEAM release. BEAM inflation is currently planned for late May.
 

