
Cerebral Autoregulation: Using the Cardiolab Portable Doppler and European Physiology Module Facility Continuous Blood Pressure Device, the crew performed data measurements for the JAXA Cerebral Autoregulation experiment.  As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space.
ISS HAM Pass: The crew participated in an ISS HAM event with Shaftesbury High School, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. Shaftesbury High School is a public school in the Pembina Trails School Division serving approximately 700 students from grades 9 through 12.  Questions involved solar power on ISS, entertainment in space, and the crew’s diet on ISS. ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Cygnus Rendezvous On-Board Training (OBT): In preparation for NG-11 launch currently planned on April 17 and berth on April 19, today the crew completed this proficiency training covering the mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding the Cygnus.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and performed a base change from the LAB Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) to Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF 1. They commanded the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to release MBS PDGF 1 and walked off to MBS PDGF 4. Ground Controllers released SSRMS from MBS PDGF1 and maneuvered the SSRMS to grapple Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) PDGF. After a base change, they commanded the SSRMS to unstow the SPDM and started a series of auto-sequence to position the MSS towards the Port side of the ISS in preparation for the last P4 NiH2 battery relocation to 4A3. Finally, they ran SPDM Brakes and Joint diagnostics on Body and Arms as part of the regular checkouts then powered down the MSS cameras.

