
New Status:
Blood Pressure (BP) Regulation (Reg) Experiment: Hadfield set up the Human Research Facility (HRF) PFS (Pulmonary Function System) and the European Physiology Module (EPM) Cardiolab (CDL) Leg/Arm Cuff System (LACS) and conducted the first ever session of this experiment. Marshburn is scheduled to conduct the experiment Friday. The test will help to identify the astronauts who could benefit from countermeasures before returning to Earth. Thus, this method has great potential for astronaut health monitoring during future long-term space flights and it also has important implications for testing of individuals on Earth, especially the elderly, who are at risk for fainting. The research will also allow demonstrating the feasibility of obtaining a set of indicators of overall cardiovascular regulation from the non-invasive measurement of continuous blood pressure. 

Countermeasures System (CMS) Periodic Fitness Evaluation (PFE):  With assistance from Marshburn, Cassidy performed his first monthly physiological evaluation since arriving on orbit. The purpose of this activity is to monitor crewmembers’ overall fitness levels to ensure that cardiovascular and musculoskeletal health and performance is satisfactory. The activity consists of performing a graded exercise test on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Walkoff to Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF)-1:   Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS, Cassidy then maneuvered the SSRMS into position and grappled Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF1 as part of his proficiency for Robotics Operations. After MBS PDGF1 had been grappled, the Robotics Ground Controllers changed the SSRMS base from the Node 2 PDGF to MBS PDGF1. They then released the SSRMS from the Node2 PDGF and are currently maneuvering it to a translation configuration in preparation for the Mobile Transporter (MT) translation from Worksite (WS) 4 to WS2 planned for the end of this month.



EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Laptop Computer (ELC) Software Updates: Marshburn loaded EXPRESS Software Version 9.0, Basic Input/Output System (BIOS), Serial Network Flow Monitor (SNFM) software and configure the EXPRESS Rack-6 Laptop Computer (ELC) for operations. He configured and loaded Microgravity Experiment Research Locker/Incubator (MERLIN) and General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) payload application software onto the ELC.
