
New Status:
ENERGY Experiment: Hadfield completed Day 4 of his 10-day ENERGY experiment session. The experiment includes eating a standardized meal, diet logging, specific water intake, measurements of Oxygen uptake, collection of urine samples, and wearing an armband activity monitor. A loss in astronauts’ body mass is a systematic observation during space flight. The aim of ENERGY is to measure changes in energy balance during long term space flight; measure adaptations in the components of the Total Energy Expenditure (consumption); and to derive an equation for the energy requirements of astronauts.
NanoRacks Data Collection: Marshburn completed the 3rd of 3 data collections for the week from NanoRacks Modules-20, 21 & 22. Module-20 studies the effects of microgravity on: electroplating; remotely controlled robot control mechanisms and mechanical devices;  the effects of a variable magnetic field on Ferrofluids; growth of E. coli bacteria in microgravity and its resistance to the antibiotic Kanamycin. Module-21 studies the fluctuation levels of carbon dioxide on ISS; the potential impact of microgravity on the growth cycle of bacteria; microgravity impacts on the performance of current battery technology. Module-22 studies the possibility of producing alum crystals of higher purity in Space than on Earth; corrosion of iron in a microgravity environment; and coalescence of polymers at different glass transition temperatures in space. Modules are scheduled to be returned to the students on 33 Soyuz.
Capillary Flow Experiments (CFE) Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-9 Operations: Marshburn reviewed procedures, set up the hardware, and conducted the 2nd of 10 planned runs of this experiment. CFE is a suite of fluid physics experiments that investigates how fluids translate across surfaces in microgravity. The results aim to improve current computer models that are used by designers of low gravity fluid systems and may improve fluid transfer systems for water on future spacecraft.
Education Payload Operations (EPO) Dual Fields Demonstration: Cassidy reviewed procedures, gathered materials, and watched a video in preparation for the demonstration. During the activity, with assistance from Hadfield, he secured two pieces of rubber tubing parallel to one another with a 1 inch gap between them. A static electric charge was created by rubbing the tubing with nylon; then a drop of water was released near the gap between the tubings. EPO demos are educational videos conducted by crewmembers on-board the ISS and are seen by grades 5-12 students and educators.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS) Experiment: Cassidy performed the 2nd of 13 sessions planned for this experiment. BASS examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity and will guide strategies for extinguishing fires in microgravity. BASS results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Space Acceleration Measurement System II (SAMS II): Hadfield set up the video and assisted the Ground with gathering information related to the SAMS hard drive issues. Then he removed two hard drives from the Interim Control Unit (ICU) laptop and replaced with new ones. He then powered on the unit to verify functionality.
Material Science Laboratory Seal Inspection: Hadfield inspected and cleaned MSL chamber seal, o-rings, and chamber flange surface.
Previous Status (04/11/13)
High Rate Communications System (HRCS) Ku Comm Unit 1 Installation: Commander (CDR) Hadfield and Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn  removed the legacy High Rate Frame Multiplexer (HRFM) and Audio Interface Unit (AIU) scar bracket and installed the Ku Comm Unit 1 into Avionics Rack #3 (LAB1D2). Following Ku Comm Unit 1 installation, the ground performed a software transition to load Integrated Communications Unit (ICU) Revision 1 Patch 8 software to the newly installed Ku Comm Unit. Ku Comm Unit 2 was then reactivated and Ku comm was re-established. A checkout of Ku Comm Unit 1 functionality is currently scheduled for next week.
ENERGY Experiment: Hadfield completed Day 3 of his 10-day ENERGY experiment session. The experiment includes eating a standardized meal, diet logging, specific water intake, measurements of Oxygen uptake, collection of urine samples, and wearing an armband activity monitor.   A loss in astronauts’ body mass is a systematic observation during space flight. The aim of ENERGY is to measure changes in energy balance during long term space flight; measure adaptations in the components of the Total Energy Expenditure (consumption); and to derive an equation for the energy requirements of astronauts.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Radiation Area Monitors (RAMs) Installation: Cassidy deployed 25 RAMS delivered on 34 Soyuz and retrieved 24 RAMs delivered on 32S. He photo documented each newly deployed RAM for location and configuration reference for the ground teams. Retrieved RAMS will be returned on 33S.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Clean: Cassidy cleaned the starboard CQ intake and exhaust duct, fan and flow sensors. This is done every 6 months as preventive maintenance.

