
Metabolic Tracking (MT): The crew set up MT hardware and materials for thawing and inoculation. They then injected the thawed inoculum into multiwell BioCells, which were inserted into the NanoRacks Plate Reader-2.  NanoRacks Plate Reader-2 is a laboratory instrument designed to detect biological, chemical or physical events of samples in microtiter plates. The Metabolic Tracking investigation evaluates a rapid, low-cost method for assessing the effects of therapeutic compounds in microgravity. The method contributes to development of custom plans for emergency medical treatment for crew members, using primary tissue samples. This investigation also determines the feasibility of developing improved pharmaceuticals in microgravity using a new method to test the metabolic impacts of drug compounds. This could lead to more effective, less expensive drugs. 
Genes in Space-5:  For the Genes in Space experiment the crew processed samples in the Miniature Polymerase Chain Reaction (miniPCR), and then transferred the data for downlink. The Genes in Space investigation is a winning student-designed experiment that tests whether the polymerase chain reaction can be used to study DNA alterations onboard the ISS. Spaceflight causes many changes to the human body, including alterations in DNA and a weakened immune system. Understanding whether these two processes are linked is important for safeguarding crew health, but DNA technology that can track these changes is relatively untested in space. 
Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS) Protein Crystal Growth (PCG)-9:  The crew performed a final inspection of the eight CASIS PCG-9 sample bags for crystal growth and then inserted the sample bags into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on the SpaceX-14 vehicle. The Wisconsin Crystal Growing Contest-Wisconsin Space Crystal Mission (CASIS PCG 9) investigation provides student researchers the opportunity to explore crystal growth in the microgravity environment of the ISS. Crystals grown without the influence of gravity have shown to contain fewer imperfections and grow to larger sizes. Middle and high school students compete to grow the most perfect ground-based crystal, as judged by experts in the crystallography field. The students who present the crystals with the fewest imperfections have the opportunity to fly their experiments to the space station.  
Mouse Stress Defense:  The crew temporarily relocated the Mouse Habitat Cage Units from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) to the Glove Box to perform maintenance on the cage units. They replaced waste collecting equipment and odor filters.  Microgravity provokes cellular mechanical stresses and perturbs cellular signaling, leading to reduction of muscle and bone density. To overcome these stresses, one of the promising strategies is to activate Nrf2, a master regulator of antioxidant pathway. Mouse Stress Defense investigates how Nrf2 contributes to effective prevention of space-originated stresses.  
TangoLab-2:  The crew removed cubes from a card taken out of the TangoLab-2 facility, placed them in ziploc bags and then put them in a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER). TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable general research facilities designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS. 
Multi-Use Variable-G Platform (MVP):  The crew rotated the food chambers in each Drosophila module in the MVP today.  MVP is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others.  It includes 2 internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity. Each carousel hosts 6 separate removable experiment modules on each carousel. Video and still imagery, including microscopy, can be included. The platform provides temperature and humidity controls and monitors and records oxygen and carbon dioxide levels.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Video Upgrade Equipment (VUE):  This morning the crew and ground teams were unsuccessful in an attempt to boot up the MSG VUE from a Universal Serial Bus (USB) Flash Drive.  The software on the flash drive had been updated following an analysis of the results from troubleshooting performed two days ago.  The MSG VUE unit failed on March 1st.  A replacement VUE will be flown up on the Orbital ATK-9 (OA-9) vehicle. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Eye Ultrasounds: Today the crew completed routine eye exams using an Ultrasound machine. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Solid State Lighting Assembly (SSLA) Installation: This morning the crew installed a SSLA at the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) 1 Deck Starboard location. Over the weekend, the crew reported the General Lighting Luminaire (GLA) at this location had failed providing the opportunity to upgrade the lighting assembly in this location. The SSLA was designed to replace the GLA in order to improve visual acuity and provide a crew health countermeasure for circadian rhythms. To accomplish these goals, SSLAs are designed to operate in three different modes and provide control over the amount of emitted blue light. Blue light impacts melatonin production in humans and controlling its presence can assist with sleep, alertness and performance. 
Water Resource Management (WRM) Condensate Sample Collection: Today the crew collected a condensate sample from the Condensate Sample Port at the Water Recovery System (WSR) 2 Utility Interface Panel (UIP). This procedure captures condensate being collected into the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Waste Tanks and contains the most recently collected condensate. A regularly scheduled activity, that collection is performed multiple times throughout the expedition to verify proper condensate quality and ensure optimum WRM performance.
Dragon Robotic Operations: Yesterday and overnight, ground controllers completed Monday’s deferred robotics tasks to remove the new Pump Flow Control Subsystem (PFCS), brought up on SpX-14, from the Flight Support Equipment (FSE) stowed on the Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP). The failed PFCS (commonly referred to as ‘Trippy’ by flight controllers) was then removed from the P6 Long Spacer and the new PFCS was installed in its place. The new PFCS has been powered up and pressures and temperatures are within expected ranges. Tonight, ground operators will install ‘Trippy’ into the FSE, conduct a Mobile Transporter (MT) translation from Worksite (WS)8 to WS6, and Walkoff the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) from the MT to Node 2. 

