
New Status:
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last night Robotics Ground Controllers powered up MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into position to support a video survey of Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)2. They used the SSRMS Tip Elbow Camera Light Pan/Tilt Assembly (CLPA) to perform the survey then maneuvered the SSRMS back to a park position. The purpose of the survey was to inspect the PMA2 sealing surface for contamination or possible Micro Meteoroid Orbital Debris (MMOD) damage prior to the installation of a cover this summer. Today the Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite (WS) 5 back to WS4. MSS performance was nominal.

Synchronized Position, Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo Experiment: Marshburn set up the camera, work area, and Vertigo Goggles, loaded the SPHERES and Goggles with test session specific programs, and executed a session of the experiment. The experiment investigates the ability to create a three-dimensional model of an unknown object in space using only one or two small satellites. The experiment uses passive, visual cameras as the primary sensors to construct the model. These cameras have the advantage of being small and lightweight, as compared to current systems which rely on heavy and power-hungry laser or radio frequency (RF) systems.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS) Experiment: Cassidy performed the 3rd of 13 sessions planned for this experiment. BASS examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity and will guide strategies for extinguishing fires in microgravity. BASS results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): Cassidy completed this activity that Marshburn started yesterday when he replaced the CIR Fuel Oxidizer Management Assembly (FOMA) Calibration Unit. Today Cassidy opened valves on all installed CIR Manifold Bottles and moved the Gas Interface Panel (GIP) Valve Lever to the up position to prepare for running test points after calibration of the FOMA system. This activity is required to renew the CIR Flight Safety Certification which expires in June of this year.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Periodic Fitness Evaluation (PFE):  Hadfield performed his monthly physiological evaluation, with assistance from Cassidy.  The purpose of this activity is to monitor crewmembers’ overall fitness levels to ensure that cardiovascular and musculoskeletal health and performance is satisfactory. The activity consists of performing a graded exercise test on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).
Blood Pressure (BP) Regulation (Reg) Experiment: Hadfield set up the Human Research Facility (HRF) PFS (Pulmonary Function System) and the European Physiology Module (EPM) CDL (Cardiolab) LACS (Leg/Arm Cuff System) in support of BP Reg experiment. He will repeat this activity tomorrow. Marshburn is scheduled to conduct the experiment Thursday and Friday. The test will help to identify the astronauts who could benefit from countermeasures before returning to Earth. Thus, this method has great potential for astronaut health monitoring during future long-term space flights and it also has important implications for testing of individuals on Earth, especially the elderly, who are at risk for fainting. The research will also allow demonstrating the feasibility of obtaining a set of indicators of overall cardiovascular regulation from the non-invasive measurement of continuous blood pressure.
Previous Status (04/15/13)
49 Progress (49P) Undock: 49P undocked nominally from the ISS Service Module (SM) aft port at 7:02 am CDT.
49P performed a nominal 15-sec (∆V ≈ 0.67 m/s) automated separation burn at 7:05 am CDT, followed by a nominal 10.695 m/s retrograde phasing burn at 10:15 am CDT. 49P will perform free flight burns for the non-ISS-related Radar-Progress experiment April 16-21, after which it will deorbit.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Inter-module Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement: Hadfield and Marshburn set up the velocicalc hardware and measured the IMV flow coming from the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) IMV overhead aft inlet, starboard aft inlet, and starboard forward outlet. The measurements are part of routine preventative maintenance to ensure quality airflow in the modules.
US Handover of Increment 35 Crew: Hadfield reviewed suggested on-orbit practices, and lessons learned related to ISS systems and payloads with Cassidy who arrived on ISS on 3/28/13. This was an operational review section for handover topics not limited to a particular module or scheduled activity, as well as a section that covered normally scheduled activities.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-3 (BCAT)-3: Hadfield initiated sample 5 of this experiment. BCAT documents the formation of crystals from microscopic spheres (known as colloids) suspended in a liquid, both on the surface of the sample container walls and in the bulk of the sample container. Results help scientists develop fundamental physics concepts previously unobserved due to the effects of gravity.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): Marshburn replaced the CIR Fuel Oxidizer Management Assembly (FOMA) Calibration Unit. This activity is required to renew the CIR Flight Safety Certification which expires in June of this year.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA): Cassidy completed his first hearing test since arriving on ISS. The test is performed during the first 14 days of a crewmember’s arrival on orbit and every 45 days thereafter.
Photo/TV Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Camera Configuration: Hadfield and Cassidy configured cameras to be used for the Russian Segment EVA #32 scheduled for this Friday. Batteries will be charged and swapped prior to the EVA.

