
PrK Operations: This morning, the crew closed the hatch to the PrK at 9:56 AM CDT.
Payloads:
B Complex: In support of the B Complex experiment, the crew set up the Optical Coherence Tomography 2 (OCT2) hardware and performed a scanning session. OCT is used to obtain cross-sectional images of the eye. More information on this experiment can be found here.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF) – The crew exchanged multiple cassettes, and the ground team attempted a biological print. Unfortunately, today’s print was not successful due to a fault indication in the facility, and the time required to recover. BFF will be set up for another science print tomorrow. The ground team has reported two of four smart pumps are clogged, but can proceed with science activities with the two remaining smart pumps. More information on the current experiment (BFF-Cardiac) can be found here.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction – Material Ignition and Suppression Test (CIR/SoFIE-MIST): The crew gained access to the CIR and installed the heat flux radiometer. This completes the configuration necessary to support the MIST series of experiment test points. More information on the MIST experiment can be found here.
Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Nano Therapeutics-Demo 2: The crew reviewed the procedures and gathered hardware for the upcoming science session. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Fluids Integrated Rack/Flow Boiling and Condensation Experiment (FIR/FBCE): The crew gained access to the FIR, replaced the FBCE power filter, and installed foam around FBCE Test Fluid Hose 3. The power filter will resolve noise issues which have prevented the Condensation Module for Heat Transfer (CM-HT) series of experiments from being performed. More information on this experiment can be found here.
ISS Ham: The crew participated in a radio contact with the ARTADEMIA, Milano and “A. Moro” in Ponte Lambro (CO), Italy. Some of the questions asked by the 11- to 14-year-old students included which planets can be seen from the ISS, if the astronauts dream differently in space, and how flames behave in space. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Manufacturing of Semiconductors and Thin-Film Integrated Coatings (MSTIC): Following a series of successful test points, the crew exchanged the processed MSTIC production module for a new one. The crew also exchanged the gas supply modules. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Powered Ascent Utility Locker1 (PAUL1): The crew powered PAUL1 down, removed the 9U Encapsulate experiment cube, took photos of it, and stowed it in 4° C cold stowage. For reference, a 1U cube has dimensions of 10x10x10cm. More information on this TangoLab Mission 37 experiment cube can be found here.
Systems:
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued preparing cargo for transfer from ISS to the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until April 26th before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground. 
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
