
Lighting Effects:  Upon wakeup, the 49S subject provided a sleep log entry and began the first half of a 48-hour urine collection to support the Sleep Shift and Biochem Profile/Repository portion of the Lighting Effects investigation.  Subject conducted four urine collections which are performed within a 24-hour period. Each sample was stowed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for freezing for return and analysis. The Lighting Effects experiment hopes to better quantify and qualify how lighting can effect habitability of spacecraft. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights 
Device for the study of Critical Liquids and Crystallization (DECLIC) Hard Drive Exchange:  The crew exchanged hard drives for the DECLIC investigation. DECLIC High Temperature Insert (HTI)-Reflight (R) studies water near its critical point, the point beyond which water loses its distinction between liquid and vapor and begins to behave as a dense gas. Salt tends to precipitate out from water at temperatures and pressures beyond its critical point. Understanding this behavior will assist designers in building extended-life and low-maintenance supercritical water oxidation (SCWO) reactors that will provide more environmentally friendly waste management systems and reduce operating costs of power plants that use supercritical water for its working fluid.
Dose Tracker: The crew launched the Dose Tracker app before completing entries for medication tracking on an iPad. This investigation documents the medication usage of crewmembers before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
Expedite the Processing of Experiments to the Space Station (Express) Rack 6 (ER6) Improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG) Installation: The crew removed the Payload Ethernet Hub Bridge (PEHB) from ER6 and installed an Improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG) in its place.  The iPEHG provides additional payload data band width needed for the TangoLab payload arriving on SpX-11. The iPEHG was checked out and is performing nominally. The PWD was removed and reinstalled back in the same ER6 location, to allow access for installing the iPEHG.  While preparing for the iPEHG installation, the crew found damaged threads on one of the Microgravity Rack Barrier Posts and its threaded insert. The plan is to replace the Standoff Bridge Bracket to provide a good installation location for a spare Microgravity Rack Barrier Post.
Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) S11A_C Remote Power Controller (RPC) 3 Status: Yesterday, RPCM S11A-C RPC 3 tripped, removing power from the Starboard Thermal Radiator (STR) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM). Due to unusual temperatures in the RPCM after the trip, specialists suspected that the trip might have been caused by an RPCM failure rather than a true overcurrent. Multiple attempts to reclose RPC 3 were unsuccessful.  Teams are reviewing data to attempt to isolate the failure to the RPCM or the STR MDM.
Nitrogen Repress from Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS): Today, the crew performed the first nitrogen repress from a NORS N2 tank. The tank is now empty and ready for return on SpX-11. 

