
Plant Gravity Perception (PGP): The final Plant Gravity Perception experiment completed today with three of the Experiment Containers (ECs) maintaining power in the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS).  The crew removed seed cassettes from the ECs and placed them in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  For this investigation, normal and mutated forms of thale cress, a model research plant, were germinated to support the study of the plants’ gravity and light perception. Results provide insight into the plants’ adaptation to a microgravity environment and supports efforts to grow plants for food on future space missions. 
Metabolic Tracking (MT): The crew set up MT hardware and materials for thawing and inoculation. They injected the thawed inoculum into multiwell BioCells, which were then inserted into the NanoRacks Plate Reader-2. The Metabolic Tracking investigation evaluates a rapid, low-cost method for assessing the effects of therapeutic compounds in microgravity. The method contributes to development of custom plans for emergency medical treatment for crew members, using primary tissue samples. This investigation also determines the feasibility of developing improved pharmaceuticals in microgravity using a new method to test the metabolic impacts of drug compounds. This could lead to more effective, less expensive drugs. 
Using Brachypodium distachyon to Investigate Monocot Plant Adaptation to Spaceflight (APEX-06):  The crew configured the Veggie facility today for the initial APEX-06 operations and installed twenty APEX-06 petri plates into the Veggie facility to begin the growth process of the plants. The APEX-06 experiment investigates the growth of the common grass species Brachypodium distachyon in the microgravity environment of space. The grasses grow from seedlings aboard the ISS, and are returned as frozen samples to Earth-based labs for detailed analysis and comparison with Earth-based control groups. APEX-06 aims to compare the growth and gene-expression patterns of Brachypodium distachyon with those of the dicotyledonous model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, which has been extensively studied in space and whose behavior in microgravity is better understood. 
MetOx Regeneration Initiation: Today the crew initiated a MetOx regeneration cycle on two MetOx canisters. This process is expected to take 14 hours and the crew is scheduled to terminate the regeneration cycle and remove the canisters from the MetOx Regenerator on Friday.  These two canisters will be used for an upcoming EVA.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Events:  Today Fuestel participated in a PAO event with actor Will Smith and sponsored by National Geographic.  
Dragon Cargo Operations: Today the crew resumed Dragon cargo operations. Over the next several days, the crew will remove the final ascent items still stowed in the Dragon capsule and begin loading items identified for return on SpaceX-14. 
Dragon Robotic Operations:  Last night, the failed Pump Flow Control Subsystem (PFCS) (commonly referred to as ‘Trippy’ by the flight control team) was bolted in Flight Support Equipment (FSE) and the FSE lid was closed and locked. Tonight ground controllers will perform a Mobile Transporter (MT) translation from Worksite (WS)8 to WS6 and Walk Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off the MT to Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF).

