
Lighting Effects: On Saturday the 49S subject provided a sleep log entry and downloaded data from their Actiwatch for the Lighting Effects investigation. The light bulbs on the ISS are being replaced with a new system designed for improved crew health and wellness. Fluorescent bulbs are being replaced with solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) that have adjustable intensity and color. Investigators will determine if the new lights improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. Results from this investigation also have major implications for people on Earth who use electric lights.
JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Operations: In preparation for the NanoRacks External Platform (NREP) activities planned for next week, the crew pressurized the JEMAL and completed a leak check.
Veg-03 Operations: The crew checked and photographed the Chinese cabbage growing in the Veggie facility. The goal of Veg-03 is to further demonstrate the proof of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and planting pillows. Future long-duration missions into the solar system will require a fresh food supply to supplement crew diets, which entails growing crops in space. Previous investigations focused on improving productivity in controlled environments but the limited quarters of the space shuttle and ISS made it difficult to conduct large-scale crop production tests. Veg-03 expands on previous validation tests of the Veggie hardware to grow cabbage, lettuce and other fresh vegetables. Tests determine which types of microorganisms are present in space-grown cabbage, providing baseline data for future crop-growing efforts. Behavioral health surveys assess the impact of growing plants on crew morale and mood.
NeuroMapping: The crew set up the NeuroMapping hardware and executed testing in both a “strapped in” and “free floating” body configuration. During the test, the crewmember executed three Behavioral Assessments: mental rotation, sensorimotor adaptation, and motor-cognitive dual tasking. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes any changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
JAXA Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle 2 (J-FROST2) Troubleshooting:  Following installation of the facility in the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) on March 1st of this year, anomalies in the telemetry system were experienced.  Today the crew performed troubleshooting steps to verify cable connectivity and functionality.  FROST2 will be used to provide conditioned stowage capability for the Moderate Temperature Protein Crystal Growth (MT PCG) experiment scheduled to arrive on SpX-11.
Fluid Shifts Hardware Preparation:  In preparation for Fluid Shifts activities to be performed this week the crew set up hardware required for blood, urine and saliva collections and processing.  
On-Board Training (OBT) Cygnus Rendezvous: In preparation for OA-7 launch, the crew performed this proficiency training on the Cygnus profile including rendezvous crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding the vehicle. Cygnus is scheduled to launch tomorrow at 10:11 am CDT with capture and berthing Saturday, April 22.
OBT Emergency Descent Drill:  All three crew members performed this Emergency Descent Drill. The training session focuses on off-nominal procedures that would be used in the event the crew needs to egress the ISS and perform an emergency descent.  The drill is scheduled 12-14 weeks aboard the ISS, then once every 2.5 months. 

