
Northrop Grumman 11 (NG-11) Launch/Berth:  NG-11 launched successfully today at 3:46 PM CT from NASA’s Wallops Flight Facility in Virginia.  Over the next two days, S.S. Rodger Chaffee will perform a series of phasing burns to rendezvous with ISS. Vehicle capture is planned for Friday, April 19, at 4:30 AM CT. 
JEMAL (JEM Airlock) Configuration: The crew removed the Airlock Adapter Plate (JCAP) and RRM3 interface plate (STRIP) from the JEMAL slide table and installed it on the JEM Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Transfer Interface (JOTI) in preparation for Materials International Space Station Experiment (MISSE) Transfer Tray (MTT) activities. The MISSE-11 rotation cycle was launched on NG-11. A total of 349 samples/devices will be hosted on the MISSE facility during the MISSE-11 mission.  The samples consist of radiation protection, radiation detection, laminates, coatings, polymetric, high-efficiency low-mass solar cell systems, composites, and additively-manufactured materials, all exposed to the low-Earth orbit space environment.
JAXA Mouse Mission:  Mouse Habitat unit preparation and item gather activities were performed in preparation for the upcoming JAXA Mouse Mission.  The purpose of this mouse mission is to analyze alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs, and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term (e.g. more than 30 days) space environment. Data collected could suggest not only experimental information about mice in the space environment, but also fundamental information about humans exposed to a prolonged space environment.
Time Perception: Using a head-mounted Oculus Rift display, headphones, finger trackball, and laptop computer, the crew performed the Time Perception science sessions.  A program on the laptop induces visual and audio stimuli to measure a subject’s response to spatial and time perception in a microgravity environment. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time is fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub and Dump and Fill: As part of the deconfiguration from recent EVAs, the crew emptied and refilled EMU 3004’s water supply. Once complete, they performed a water loop scrub before acquiring and testing water samples for conductivity. These activities are required for long term health monitoring and maintenance of the EMUs.
NG-11 Arrival Preparations: In preparation for NG-11 arrival this Friday, today the crew completed the following activities:

Equipment gathering of the Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) and equipment needed to outfit the Node 1 Nadir vestibule for NG-11 berthing.
The second NG-11 robotics training session utilizing the Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT), an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback.
A conference with ground teams to discuss NG-11 cargo transfer details.

Public Affairs Office (PAO) Live Event: Today Saint-Jacques participated in a live PAO event with students from the École Champs Vallée School in Alberta, Canada. Participants in CSA’s Living Space Project, the students asked questions about how work in space can improve environmental conditions and health and well being on Earth. 

