
Payloads:
B Complex: In support of the B Complex experiment, the crew set up the Optical Coherence Tomography 2 (OCT2) hardware and performed a scanning session. OCT is used to obtain cross-sectional images of the eye. More information on this experiment can be found here.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF) – The crew exchanged multiple cassettes, and the ground team was able to perform a successful biological print. Following the print, the crew prepared BFF for another science print tomorrow. The ground team has reported the second of four smart pumps is clogged, but can proceed with science activities with the two remaining smart pumps. More information on the current experiment (BFF-Cardiac) can be found here.
Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Nano Therapeutics-Demo 2 (DNA-Nano): The crew performed the final science session (also called day 2) for the DNA-Nano experiment. Activities included hydrating and mixing the experiment reagents, and analyses using a spectrophotometer. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Four Bed Carbon Dioxide (4BCO2) Scrubber: The crew collected Carbon Dioxide (CO2) and relative humidity effluent samples from the 4BCO2 system. These samples will be returned to the ground for analysis. More information on this experiment can be found here.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-28 (J-SSOD-28): The crew observed and took photos of the J-SSOD-28 satellite deploys. The deploys occurred in two windows, with the CURTIS satellite launching in the first window, and KASHIWA and MicroOrbiter-1 launching in the second window.
Powered Ascent Utility Locker (PAUL): The crew removed the Protein-Based Artificial Retina Manufacturing experiment cube, took photos of it, and then reinstalled it in the PAUL. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the Pre-Treat Tank was R&Red as part of nominal WHC preventative maintenance. Each tank contains five liters of pre-treat solution, a mix of acid, chromium oxide, and water, used for toilet flushing and required for nominal WHC operation.
On Board Training (OBT) 71S Emergency Drill: Today, the 71S crew performed an Emergency Egress Drill. During this drill, the 71S crew reviewed procedures needed during off-nominal situations before using the onboard trainer to practice the actions required in the event of an emergency egress and Soyuz descent. This training is scheduled every 12-14 weeks and ensures the crew is adequately prepared to respond to an on-orbit emergency. 
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued preparing and transferring cargo from ISS to the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until April 26th before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA) with Kuduwave Software Setup and Test: The crew performed a hearing test using an OOHA Headset and KUDUwave software. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
