
Payloads:
Human Research Program (HRP) Sample Collection: The crew collected samples in support of the Food Physiology and Standard Measures investigations. Food Physiology is designed to characterize the key effects of an enhanced spaceflight diet on immune function, the gut microbiome, and nutritional status indicators. Standard Measures collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions.
Manufacturing Device (ManD): The crew removed and inspected a successful test print from the ManD. This was done following successful extruder troubleshooting over the last week. ManD will be used to print experiment support items in the near future. The Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF) enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the AMF that is installed into an EXPRESS Rack locker location. The AMF is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermo-polymers including engineered plastics.
TangoLab Mission-31: Cube YURI_FRG01 was removed from its Payload Card in TangoLab-3 and prepared for return to the ground. YURI_FRG01 hosts the experiment Ferrofluid Application Research Goes Orbital. This experiment analyzes the performance of ferrofluid in equipment components such as switches and actuators for space applications. A ferrofluid is a colloidal liquid made of nanoscale ferromagnetic or ferrimagnetic particles suspended in a carrier fluid. The technology uses magnetic fields to replace solid surface contacts, which could create more reliable systems that operate with less wear and tear.
Systems:
Cargo Dragon Dedicated Thruster Firing (DTF) Test: The team nominally completed a DTF test on the SpaceX-27 (SpX-27) Cargo Dragon Vehicle. This test helps to characterize plume impingement effects of single Dragon thrusters to help validate single thruster plume models and characterize plume reflection effects. The DTF test is usually performed prior to departure along with Common Communication for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2), Propulsion System, Ground, and TDRS checkouts.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiate/Terminate: The crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
Installation of Luminaires (EHIP), Power Supplies (LREBA) and TV Cameras (NECA/ERCA) at Orlan-MKS: The crew supported installation of the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) TV onto Helmet Lights and the Orlan Helmet. Additionally, after installation, the crew verified functionality of the HD EMU Camera, Helmet Lights, and EMU TV. The Russian Orlan-MKS suit was first used on RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #43 and is the latest in a long series of Orlan EVA suits.
