
Payloads
Cell Biology Experiment Facility – Left (CBEF-L): The crew continued the series of CBEF-L activities with an Measurement Experiment Unit detachment, transfer of the temperature logger data, and closeout of the humidifier 2 system.  CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Gradient Heating Furnace (GHF): The crew used a multimeter to measure insulation resistance of the GHF Material Processing Unit heaters.  The GHF is a vacuum furnace that contains three heating blocks. Their positions and temperatures can be independently controlled, and various temperature profiles can be realized. This facility is mainly used for high quality crystal growth experiments using unidirectional solidification. GHF has an automatic sample exchange system that can be accommodate up to 15 samples to reduce crew operation.
HRF Centrifuge:  In response to recent centrifuge issues, the crew performed an HRF centrifuge LCD interface calibration.  The HRF centrifuges are typically used to process (separate) blood samples before they are placed in the freezer for long-term storage.
HRF Veg:  The crew filled out their Profile of Mood States questionnaires in support of the investigation.  The research of HRF Veg focuses on the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space for various plants grown by other investigations.
Nanoracks Rotational Dynamics: The crew deflated 2 Rotational Dynamics soccer balls to prepare them for return to the ground.  The investigation examined the behavior of free-flying soccer balls in microgravity. Researchers measure the spin speed, wobble, and spin axis of balls with different shapes and textures and compare the data to Earth-based experiments. Results could improve the understanding of interaction between free-flying objects and their environment.
Veg-03K and Veg-03L Final Harvest:  Since the plants are at the end of their roughly 2-month life cycle, the crew performed the final sample gathering, harvest activities and termination of the experiment.  Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. But future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food, so understanding how plants respond to microgravity is an important step toward that goal. Veg-03 I/J/K/L (Veg-03) uses the Veggie plant growth facility to cultivate Extra Dwarf Pak Choi, Amara Mustard and Red Romaine Lettuce using Seed Film which are harvested on orbit with samples returned to Earth for testing. 
Systems
Joint Station Local Area Network (LAN) (JSL) Gigabit Cable Routing: Today the crew completed cable routing between Node 2 (N2) and the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) as well as between N2 and Columbus (COL).  Cable mate is scheduled for tomorrow.  This mod kit adds Gigabit Ethernet cables to the main hubs of the network and once mated, the cables will improve JSL network performance on ISS. 
Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Resistance Measurements: The crew performed resistance measurements on the J1 connector of both OGA Orbital Replacement Units (ORUs) S/N 003 & S/N 004 in a data gathering effort.  Both units were installed in late March but failed to activate with pump speeds that never got above 0 rpm.  Today’s measurements will help the ground teams in their root cause investigation.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday, Robotics Ground Controllers powered MSS
and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the translate configuration.
The Mobile Transporter (MT) was then translated from Worksite #2 (WS2) to WS6 and SSRMS was maneuvered to grapple SPDM on Lab and to relocate it on Mobile Base System PDGF2.
After SSRMS released SPDM, it was maneuvered in position to perform a monthly test on Elbow Pitch joint. 

