
SpaceX (SpX)-3 Launch: SpX-3 launched from Cape Canaveral today at 2:25pm CDT.  After launch there was a delay with pressurization in part of the propulsion system.  Pressurization was completed later and SpX3 is proceeding toward capture on Sunday, April 20, at 6:14am CDT.
Hybrid Training Part Seven: Commander (CDR) Wakata donned the Hybrid Training hardware which provided electrical impulses to his non-dominant arm during concentric and eccentric arm motions. The electrical impulses help to simulate the resistance gravity would provide on the ground. This was Wakata’s seventh of twelve Hybrid Training sessions. Hybrid Training will be used for Wakata’s upper limbs (the non-dominant arm) for four weeks, and his muscular strength and bulk will be compared to those of his dominant arm to examine its orbital operation capability utility, as well as the preventive for muscle atrophy. Hybrid Training can become a useful back-up for the standard training device on the ISS. It can also be a useful training device in small space ships for the exploration of the Moon and Mars.
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: Wakata removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides which isolated the rack and allowed ground teams to start another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #26 Preparation: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Swanson and FE-5 Mastracchio reviewed procedures for the upcoming EVA to Remove and Replace (R&R) the External (EXT) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) that failed last Friday. Following the review they conducted a conference with the Ground.
External (EXT) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) Spare: All 3 crew members reviewed procedures and watched an instructional video. Mastracchio and Wakata then replaced the Enhanced Input/Output Control Unit Circuit Card of the spare EXT MDM and performed a functionality test using the MDM On Orbit Tester (MOOT) hardware/software system in preparation for the EVA to Remove & Replace (R&R) the EXT MDM.  Swanson modified the spare Cho-Therm pad, then R&Rd the pad that was on the spare EXT MDM.

