
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): The crew performed routine touching on the experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. More information on this experiment can be found here.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF) – The crew exchanged multiple cassettes, and the ground team was able to perform a successful biological print. Following the print, the crew removed the biological print and placed in in the ADvanced Space Experiment Processor (ADSEP) where it will develop into a firmer biological structure. Today was the final print attempt in the four-print series, three of which were successful.  The ground team has reported the second of four smart pumps is clogged, but can proceed with science activities with the two remaining smart pumps. More information on the current experiment (BFF-Cardiac) can be found here. 
Human Brain Organoid Models for Neurodegenerative Disease & Drug Discovery (HBOND): The crew performed media exchanges and growth factor injections for the tissue chambers in the HBOND habitats. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Manufacturing of Semiconductors and Thin-Film Integrated Coatings (MSTIC): The crew attempted to resolve a bad connection with the backup gas module, but was unsuccessful. MSTIC will still be able to perform the majority of the science activities with the primary gas module. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Quick Disconnect (QD) Inspection and Photos: Today, the crew took macro photography of the NORS Recharge Tank primary seals. The photographs are being used to determine if the FOD discovered in the NORS Oxygen Regulator originated from the primary seals on the NORS Recharge Tank Assembly QD. 
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain and Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) Operations: Today, ground teams performed robotics operations with the SPDM, extracting the Space Test Program – Houston 7 (STP-H7) payload from the Columbus External Payload Facility (EPF) Starboard Deck X-Direction (SDX) location and installing at the Starboard Overhead Zenith (SOZ) location. After successful structural mating, FRAM power inhibits were put in place and electrical mating was completed. The SPDM is a 15 DOF (Degree of Freedom) bi-axially symmetric robotic manipulator that supports ISS maintenance.
