
Medical Proteomics: The crew performed a blood draw session in support of the JAXA Medical Proteomics experiment.  Medical Proteomics evaluates changes of proteins in blood serum, bone and skeletal muscles after space flight, and supports identification of osteopenia-related proteins. By combining research results for space mice, astronauts and ground patients, proteins related to osteopenia can be identified using the latest proteome analysis technique. It is anticipated that the use of the marker proteins related to osteopenia will be of benefit in the future for assessing the health of astronauts as well as osteoporosis patients on ground.
SUBSA (Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules) sample exchange: The crew removed the completed InI (Indium Iodide) sample cartridge #7 and inserted sample cartridge #5 to be processed. Both of these are solidification-from-melt samples and require up to 50hrs to be fully processed. The experiment currently running in SUBSA is the Detached Melt and Vapor Growth of InI.  InI is ideal for space experiments in the SUBSA Transparent Furnace because it’s non-toxic, has a relatively low melting point of only 365°C, and does not react or stick to the silica crucible. Directional solidification of InI from the melt can be performed at a rate of 5 mm/hr, and growth from the vapor can be performed at ~5 mm/week. This work advances the process of fabricating high-quality InI and other crystals on Earth for use as better and less expensive detectors of nuclear radiation.
Two-Phase flow 2: As a continuation of Two-Phase Flow series of experiments, the crew altered the valve settings of the Two-Phase Flow Experiment Unit. The Two-Phase Flow experiment investigates the heat transfer characteristics of flow boiling in the microgravity environment. This experiment provides a fundamental understanding of the behaviors of bubble formation, liquid-vapor flow in a tube, and how heat is transferred in cooling systems. This investigation also seeks to establish a database of thermodynamic data for microgravity boiling and two-phase flow.
Northrop Grumman 11 (NG-11):  The crew successfully captured Cygnus with the Space Station Remote Manipulation System (SSRMS) today at 4:28AM CT. Once captured, they handed off control of the SSRMS to ground Robotics Controllers who then maneuvered the vehicle to the Node 1 Nadir (N1N) Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) interface where it was securely bolted to the ISS. Once the CBM bolting operations were complete, the crew and ground teams worked together to perform Node 1 CBM vestibule pressurization followed by hatch opening and ingress at 11:08 AM CT; NG-11 brings approximately 3426 kg of cargo to ISS.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM): As part of regularly scheduled preventative maintenance, the crew performed a manual Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) flush tank fill.  By using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as the burp, they depressurized the flush water tank and water valve block to protect the dose pump; this pump is critical as it injects the pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Live Event: Today Nick Hague participated in a live PAO event with Military Officers Magazine and recorded a downlink message for the “Spot the Station” feature on NASA TV.

Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) is the nation’s largest and most influential association of military officers and today’s interview will be used in a future article highlighting Nick’s contributions in space.
As the third brightest object in the night sky, the International Space Station can often be seen with the naked eye when flying over the Earth at dusk or dawn. The “Spot the Station” feature will highlight today’s message and help users search for the ISS when it flies over their location.

Adlink Mini PC Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew replaced suspect Adlink Mini PC S/N 1001 with new unit in preparation for the Thermal Amine payload launching on SpaceX-17; the old unit failed its checkout and was stowed for later troubleshooting. 

