
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew used a Grab Sample Container (GSC) to sample the air around the CAL experiment hardware. The GSC will be returned to the ground for analysis of the sample. CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Human Research Facility (HRF) Veggie Profile of Mood States (POMS): A POMS short form questionnaire was completed using the Data Collection Tool (DCT). The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System investigation is a phased research project that includes Veg-04A, Veg-04B, Veg-05, and HRF Veg including HRF Veggie POMS questionnaires. This work addresses the need for a system to produce healthy, fresh food on future long-duration exploration missions to supplement the standard pre-packaged astronaut diet. HRF Veg uses psychological surveys and crew evaluations of the flavor and appeal of plants grown for other investigations on the ISS to focus on the overall behavioral health benefits to crew members of having various plants and fresh food in space.
Manufacturing Device (ManD): Following the removal and inspection of the extruder yesterday, it was observed that the feedstock raw print material was not feeding into the extruder nominally. Today, an extruder will be reinstalled and ground-commanded printing steps will be adjusted to mitigate any issues. The Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF) enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the AMF that is installed into an EXPRESS Rack locker location. The AMF is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermo-polymers including engineered plastics.
Rhodium DARPA Biomanufacturing-01: The crew removed the processed science chambers from the Variable Gravity Simulator (VGS) and stowed the experiment hardware. This marks the completion of the fourth and final set of samples. Efficient and Resilient Biomanufacturing in Variable Gravity (Rhodium DARPA Biomanufacturing-01) characterizes the effect of different levels of gravity on the production of therapeutics and nutraceuticals from bacteria and yeast. Prior spaceflight studies show that microgravity causes changes in microbe cell growth, cell morphology, and metabolic activity that affect biomanufacturing performance. Results could inform strategies to improve biomanufacturing in space and provide for humans on future missions.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM) Mission 83: The crew exchanged the currently installed 50 mm camera lens for an 85 mm camera lens. This activity is typically performed about halfway through an EarthKAM mission to give the students different options for their targets. Currently more than 9300 students from 22 countries are participating. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Systems:
Hatch Seal Inspections: The crew cleaned and inspected the USOS Hatch Seals and the Hatch Plate Sealing Surface of any Foreign Object Debris (FOD), nicks, burrs, cuts or gouges that would impair a proper seal. Additionally, the crew inspected the Crank Handle Mechanism, the Hatch Seal Interlocking Joints, and the PMM Hatch Kicker Pins. Once cleaning and inspection activities were completed, the crew photographed any new damage that was seen for the ground team to review. The inspections are performed as part of periodic maintenance to ensure the safety of both the crew and ISS.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey of PMA 2: To support monitoring the health of the ISS IMV system, the crew used the Velocicalc tool to take Velocicalc measurements of PMA 2 ventilation inlets and outlets. In addition to flow rate measurements, inspections of Node 2 forward were performed. IMV refers to the air circulation between modules. The system consists primarily of several valves, fans, and air ducts that circulate air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that excessive moisture, heat, particulates, metabolic products, and contaminant can be removed from the atmosphere. This allows for a homogenous conditioned atmospheric composition to be maintained throughout the ISS and allow smoke detection to be performed. 
Cargo Dragon Lithium Hydroxide (LiOH) Swap: In preparation of the SpaceX-27 (SpX-27) Cargo Dragon undock on April 15th, the crew performed a changeout of the LiOH Cartridge inside the vehicle. Lithium hydroxide is used in a complex system to scrub CO2 out of the atmosphere.
Treadmill 2 (T2) USB to GigE Adapter Remove and Replace (R&R): On GMT 95, it was reported that the Command Logic Unit (CLU) on T2 failed to connect. As part of the ongoing troubleshooting and recovery steps, the crew performed an R&R of the GigE Adapter on T2. T2 is the second-generation ISS treadmill intended for use by USOS crewmembers to maintain crew health during extended visits to the ISS.
