ISS On-Orbit Status 04/11/09
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday.
 
 The crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 As part of the house cleaning, Padalka conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3) and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9).
 
 FE-1 Barratt began the second day of his FD15 (Flight Day 15) session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, after the 8-hr overnight fast.  This was an all-day session, the first for Dr. Mike, of collecting blood samples (assisted by Koichi Wakata who also took photographs) plus urine samples several times until termination tomorrow after 24 hrs.   [The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]
 
 CDR Padalka powered down, dismantled &amp; stowed the DAKON-M hardware of the Russian experiment TEKh-15/IZGIB (“Bend”) which had monitored the Soyuz undocking disturbances.    [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control &amp; Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]
 
 After the midday meal (10-11am EDT), FE-2 Wakata performed the weekly “T+2d” inflight microbiology analyses for the “Exp-19 Week 1” samples of potable water collected on 4/9 for chemical and microbial analysis from the SVO-ZV tap and the SRV-K Warm tap.    [Sample analysis included treatment/processing of water samples in MCDs (microbial capture devices) from the U.S. WMK (water microbiology kit).  Analysis also includes processing of water samples in the MWAK (microbial water analysis kit) for inflight coliform bacteria (Escherichia coli) detection.  Results of the MWAK will be available after another 2-4 days of incubation.]
 
 The CDR also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and performing US condensate processing (transfer from CWC to EDV containers) if condensate is available.] 
 
 Part of the SOZh maintenance today included replacement of three manual pressure gauges (MB), two in the SM, one in the DC1 Docking Compartment with new units, plus the addition of two new gauges (#19, #14) in the SM from stowage.
 
 Mike Barratt performed the daily status check on the BCAT-4 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-4) science payload, running by itself since 4/3.    [The status check, conducted on the last image taken by the DCS 760 digital still camera which is controlled by EarthKAM software on an A31p laptop, is to verify proper image focus and camera alignment.  The SSC (Station Support Computer) is taking photography of the phase separation occurring in the BCAT Sample 3, with the photo flash going off every half hour.] 
 
 The FE-1 performed the (now) daily procedure of flushing the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) ambient line with ~50mL of water (into a towel/Ziploc bag).  PWD water is currently cleared only for hygienic use.     [While final analysis of the PWD sample results on the ground is still pending, experts recommend keeping water flowing in the line daily to help control microbial growth.  The flushing will be done daily unless at least this amount has been dispensed for other activities during the day).]
 
 On the FCF (Fluids &amp; Combustion Facility) in the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) in the Lab, Dr. Mike re-installed the alignment guides to lock down the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) after yesterday’s ground-commanded MDCA (Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus)test session.
 
 Wakata retrieved and stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies deployed by him on 4/9 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.    [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.] 
 
 Koichi also completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC (Station Support Computer) laptops.
 
 The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2), and VELO with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).    [The CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation), which had shown anomalous workload indications, is currently “No-Go” as engineers are developing a forward plan for an inspection of its internals.  All CEVIS exercise is being replaced with TVCIS exercise for the near term.]
 
 Working off the Russian discretionary “time permitting” suggestions list, Gennady conducted another session for Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.
 
 A second periodic task from the voluntary work list for Padalka called for updating the Russian networked laptops (RSK1, RSS1, RSS2) and non-networked laptops (RSE1, RSE-med) with latest Symantec AntiVirus software.
 
 At ~8:00am EDT, Gennady, Michael &amp; Koichi downlinked two PAO TV messages of greetings, one to the participants of the Third International Seminar/Meeting “Global Road Map for Flight Safety and Russia”, to be held 4/14-15 in Moscow, the other to the attendees of tonight’s informational program “This Evening” on the NTV network, on the eve of Cosmonautics Day.   [The Russian participants in the Safety seminar include the directors of Rosaviatsiya, Transportation Minister Igor Levitin, and the directors of the major aviation companies of Russia.  International civil aviation is represented by Mr. William Voss, president of the Flight Safety Foundation; Mr. Brian Starset, a representative of the US Federal Aviation Administration; and representatives from Boeing and Airbus.  These meetings between civil aviation leaders in Russia and representatives of international civil aviation have become traditional.  This time, the meeting will be dedicated to the subject of the Global Road Map for Flight Safety, which can be called a tool or guide for implementing the Global Aviation Safety Plan, adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).-  NTV was founded in 1993, and remains the only private Russian channel that has federal status.  The NTV audience in Russia exceeds 120 million people.  In addition to Russia, NTV broadcasts to the countries of the CIS and also Western Europe, the Middle East, US, and Canada.  NTV has a network of correspondence points throughout Russia and the CIS, and also in New York, Berlin, London, and Brussels.  The hosts of “This Evening” are Olga Belova and Aleksandr Yakovenko.]
 
 At ~9:30am, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 At ~4:15pm, Mike Barratt is scheduled for his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 Afterwards, Barratt transferred the exercise data file to the MEC laptop for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 
