
Payloads:
Atmosphere-Space Interactions Monitor (ASIM): Yesterday, the ASIM external hardware was robotically moved to Columbus External Payload Facility Starboard Deck X-Direction (SDX) and today power was re-established. More information on this experiment (ASIM) can be found here. 
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): Routine periodic touching was performed for experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. More information on this experiment can be found here.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF)-Cardiac: A crewmember removed tissues cassettes from the BFF and replaced the media and waste bags. More information on the current experiment (BFF-Cardiac) can be found here.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The final steps to remove the Science Module-3B and Heat Exchanger from the CAL quad locker were completed and Module-4 was installed. The CAL quad locker was re-installed back in Express Rack 7. More information on the current experiment (Cold Atom Lab) can be found here. 
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): ISAFE Electroretinography Measurements were attempted but due to software issues the measurements were aborted. Optical Coherence Tomography 2 measurements were completed successfully. More information on the current experiment (CIPHER) can be found here.
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer System-27 (NRCSD-27): Seven CubeSats were installed onto the NRCSD hardware which was placed onto the JEM Airlock slide table. NRCSD is a self-contained CubeSat deployer system for small satellites staged from the ISS. The NRCSD launches inside the Pressurized Cargo Module (PCM) of ISS cargo resupply vehicles and utilizes the ISS Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) as a staging facility for operation. 
Zero Treadmill-2 (Zero T2): A crewmember performed Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) on Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) equipment. More information on the current experiment (Zero T2) can be found here.
Systems:
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued preparing and transferring cargo from ISS to the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until April 26th before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground.
Emergency Simulation On-Board Training (OBT): The entire crew reviewed Emergency OBT Simulator Functionality to ensure systems are functional and their training is current in the event of an emergency on the space station. Tomorrow, the crew will perform emergency response drills.
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Robotics External Leak Locator (RELL) Checkouts: Today, robotic ground controllers (ROBO) activated the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and are currently in the process of performing checkouts of the two RELL units that are stowed in the Robotic Tool Stowage (RiTS). The RELLs are mass spectrometer “sniffers” that are used to assist in the investigation of possible External Active Thermal Control System (EATCS) anhydrous ammonia (NH3) leaks. The EATCS coolant loops cool external electrical systems as well as transport heat away from internal water cooling systems that are required keep critical ISS avionics from overheating.
