
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #26 Preparations:  The crew completed the following tasks in preparation for EVA 26 to Remove and Replace (R&R) the failed External (EXT) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM).  The plan is to use Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU)s 3005 and 3011 for the EVA. 

EMU 3005 Return To Service (RTS):  Today Swanson performed a visual water leakage inspection, structural gas leakage test at the maximum operating suit pressure, and a long-duration leak check on EMU 3005.  The tests confirmed good operation of the Fan Pump Separator (FPS) that was installed yesterday.  EMU data and video was recorded and downlinked for review by the ground.  The crew will perform additonal RTS activities tomorrow.
EMU Flush and Samples: The 3rd and final flushes were performed on EMUs  3005, 3010 and 3011.  Additionally, water samples were collected on EMUs 3005 and 3011.

In addition to the above activities, Swanson and Mastracchio completed On-Board Training (OBT) for EVA Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER), practicing SAFER rescue and checkout.  All three crew members participated in a conference with ground controllers to discuss EVA procedures.  Mastracchio configured tools that are planned to be used for the EVA.
Hybrid Training Part Six: Commander (CDR) Wakata donned the Hybrid Training hardware which provides electrical impulses to his non-dominant arm during concentric and eccentric arm motions. The electrical impulses will help to simulate the resistance gravity would provide on the ground. This was Wakata’s sixth of twelve Hybrid Training sessions. Hybrid Training will be used for Wakata’s upper limbs (the non-dominant arm) for four weeks, and his muscular strength and bulk will be compared to those of his dominant arm to examine its orbital operation capability utility, as well as the preventive for muscle atrophy. Hybrid Training can become a useful back-up for the standard training device on the ISS. It can also be a useful training device in small space ships for the exploration of the Moon and Mars.
Petri Plants Light Evaluation: Wakata provided the Petri Plant ground team with an evaluation of the lighting conditions at the Deck 1 rack in the US LAB and reported lighting was best in the middle of the rack at this location. Previous lighting measurements at LAB Deck 1 were lower than expected. He also provided light meter readings in other locations in the ISS. Since lower than expected lighting levels could affect the growth rate of the plants, the Petri Plant ground team will use this information to maximize the growth of these plants. Petri Plants will be delivered on SpaceX-3.

