
ElectroMagnetic Levitator (EML) Lens Swap: The crew changed the measurement mode of the EML High Speed Camera to RECAL mode in support of ongoing ops. The EML is a multi-user facility designed for containerless materials processing in space. It supports research in the areas of meta-stable states and phases along with the measurement of high-accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys at high temperatures. EML can accommodate up to 18 samples, each 5 to 8 mm in size. Heating rates of up to 100 Kelvin per second can be achieved with a maximum temperature of 2,100°C.
ISS Experience: The crew set up The ISS Experience in Node 3 with a goal of capturing one of the crew member’s pre-sleep routine. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones): The crew performed ultrasound scans and measurements with the Myotones device in today’s science sessions. The Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation are expected to provide insight into principles of human resting muscle tone, which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions. 
Northrop Grumman (NG)-11 Arrival Preparations: In preparation for Cygnus arrival, currently planned for April 19, the crew completed an On-board Training (OBT) review of attached phase operations including hardware, stowage, and attached phase configuration. They also completed an offset grapple OBT, paying particular attention to managing the volumetric constraints in the Cupola, as well as lighting conditions, when maneuvering the Mobile Servicing System (MSS).
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Robotics Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS in support of crew Cygnus Offset Grapple practice. During this On-Board-Training (OBT) session, the crew took turns flying the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into the grapple envelope of the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) for training/familiarization in preparation for NG-11 capture. After the OBT, flight controllers moved SSRMS into position to enable completion of the Node1 Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) survey, required before NG-11 can be berthed to ISS, later this week.

