
Payloads:
BioFabrication Facility (BFF)-Cardiac: Sample Media Bag S/N 23957 and 23958 were retrieved from Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI-3). More information on the current experiment (BFF-Cardiac) can be found here.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): Science Module-3 was partially removed in preparation for installing Module-4. More information on the current experiment (Cold Atom Lab) can be found here.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Ultrasound scans were completed for two crewmembers. More information on the current experiment (CIPHER) can be found here.
Electromagnetic Levitator 3.3 (EML Batch 3.3): Two Argon valves were opened and the Helium valve was closed in support of upcoming EML operations. More information on the current experiment (EML) can be found here.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-28 (J-SSOD-28): J-SSOD Multi (2 deployers) were removed from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP). More information on the J-SSOD equipment can be found here.
Manufacturing of Semiconductors and Thin-Film Integrated Coatings (MSTIC): All production Module 2 Science runs are completed and the hardware was removed and prepared for return. Scrap foam pieces were found to makeshift a packing container for the hardware as the return foam box was not found. More information on this experiment (MSTIC) can be found here.
Robotic Repair Satellite (RSat): The crew set up the Lab camera to observe RSat science activities inside the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
On Board Training (OBT) 71S Emergency Drill: Today, the 71S crew performed Part 2 of an Emergency Descent Drill. During this drill, the 71S crew reviewed procedures needed during off-nominal situations before using the onboard trainer to practice the actions required in the event of an emergency egress and Soyuz descent. This training is scheduled every 12-14 weeks and ensures the crew is adequately prepared to respond to an on-orbit emergency. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance: The crew performed ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) of EMUs 3003 and 3004 as well as Airlock (A/L) cooling water loops. Conductivity readings and a water sample were taken from the cooling loop following the 70-minute scrub. Finally, the crew terminated, deconfigured, and checked out the EMUs. In addition, the crew performed a half water dump and fill, Contingency Water Container – Iodinated (CWC-I) degas, and Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Battery (BATT) removal. EMU loop scrubs are required preventative maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU cooling loop. The EMU is and independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit.
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued preparing and transferring cargo from ISS to the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until April 26th before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Vision Test: The crew performed eye exams with the support of the Station Support Computer (SSC) Client. Eye exams are performed regularly on board in order to test visual acuity, visual field, and contrast sensitivity. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. The physical test was followed by a crew vision questionnaire.
