
Genes in Space: The Genes in Space experiment began this morning with retrieval of the miniPCR sample tubes from the Glacier and hardware setup in the maintenance work area (MWA). Sample processing was performed and data was downlinked. The Genes in Space investigation is a winning student-designed experiment to test whether the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) can be used to study DNA alterations aboard the ISS.  Spaceflight causes changes to the human body including alterations in DNA and a weakened immune system. Understanding whether these two processes are linked is important for safeguarding crew health but DNA technology that can track these changes is relatively untested in space.
Rodent Research 3 CASIS Injection Review: In preparation for upcoming RR-3 operations, crewmembers reviewed the Standalone Subcutaneous Injection material, discussed operations with the payload developer, and gathered hardware in preparation for the injection session this week.  RR-3 studies molecular and physical changes in the musculoskeletal system that happen in space. Results expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
NanoRacks Module-51: The crew documented the first of several statuses for the sub-experiments inside NanoRacks Module-51. A status will be provided consecutively for the next three weeks.The four different investigations within the module study: antibiotic use to inhibit Staphylococcus aureus bacteria; the rate at which yeast decomposes organic matter; whether steroid-enhanced plants could grow better in space than on Earth; and whether an enzyme derived from fireflies can cause bioluminescence in microgravity.
Wet Lab RNA SmartCycler Session: The crew retrieved samples from the MELFI and completed a brief overview of procedures. They then began the Wet Lab RNA SmartCycler validation ops by processing a quality control sample to verify that the SmartCycler operates as expected in microgravity. Wetlab RNA SmartCycler is a research platform for conducting real-time quantitative gene expression analysis aboard the ISS. The system enables spaceflight genomic studies involving a wide variety of biospecimen types in the unique microgravity environment of space.
NeuroMapping Operations: The crew set up and performed NeuroMapping operations, which included testing in two body configurations; “strapped in” and ”free floating”. The investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the International Space Station.
Dose Tracker: The crew configured the Dose Tracker application and completed entries for medication tracking. This investigation documents the medication usage of crew members before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effects, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew performed a session of the Habitability experiment by recording a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity to provide insight related to human factors and habitability. The investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011: A successful loop scrub was performed on EMU 3011 after which the suit was packed in the launch enclosure for return on SpX-8. The suit was last used during the SSU R&R in January 2016 when water was reported in the helmet.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers operated the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to walkoff from the Lab Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) onto Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF1.  The SSRMS was then maneuvered to a translate configuration and the Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite (WS) #6 to WS2.  Next, the SSRMS was maneuvered to the first position for the Starboard Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ) to Crew and Equipment Translation Aid (CETA) Cart Clearance Survey near WS1 and the survey at this position was performed.  The SSRMS was maneuvered to the second position for the SARJ to CETA Cart Clearance Survey and this survey was also completed.  The third and final operations were performed today to survey the Starboard SARJ for clearance analysis of the MT translation path to WS1 for the HTV-6 battery task.

