
Ocular Health: Virts and Cristoforetti completed their Return-30 day (R-30) Ocular Health activities today. They each performed ocular ultrasounds and Virts performed a cardiac ultrasound.  This week’s Ocular Health sessions were shared payload and medical requirements.  Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections: Kelly collected blood, urine, and cheek swab samples in support of Biochemical Profile, Twins Study, and Cardio Ox experiments.  Following collection, samples were inserted into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Twins Study is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple PI’s at multiple centers.  The studies take advantage of a very unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, one of whom experiences space travel for one year; the other mains earth-bound for that same year.  The study looks at changes in the human body in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Crew members provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, three sessions while in space, and again post-flight. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries will be obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing as an indicator of cardiovascular health.

Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Exercise Session:  Kelly performed his Sprint exercise session on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).  He donned Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes, Heart Rate Monitor (HRM) hardware, and Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) calibrations, then executed the VO2 protocol.  The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol capable of maintaining muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of investigator’s long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
SpaceX-6 (SpX-6) Preparations: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) on the Prime String and performed the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Brake and Joint Diagnostics and Latching End Effector (LEE)-B Checkout and Setup.  Next they powered up the MSS on the Redundant String and repeated the SSRMS Brake and Joint Diagnostics and LEE-B Checkout and Setup.  The Robotics Ground Controllers then maneuvered the SSRMS such that the S1 Lower Outboard Camera could be used to verify that the LEE-B Snare Cables were correctly configured.  These activities were performed to check out the SSRMS in preparation for the capture of the SpX-6 Dragon on GMT 105 (15 Apr 15).  The Robotics Ground Controllers then maneuvered the SSRMS to the SpaceX High Hover position and are currently supporting the Visiting Vehicle Officer Robotic Workstation (RWS) camera calibration and overlays camera zoom test.  MSS performance today so far has been nominal.
Node 3 (N3) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Fault and Recovery: This morning the N3 CDRA faulted due to Air Selector Valve (ASV) 106 not transitioning between valve positions at the expected rate. Following the fault, ground teams individually commanded ASV 106 to move between valve positions. The commanding to ASV 106 was successful. N3 CDRA was recovered and is currently performing as expected. ASV 106 was replaced on March 24th, 2015. There are 2 spare ASVs available on board.
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustible Products (CSA-CP) Checkout:  During this morning’s CSA-CP checkout of the units that arrived on 42S the crew reported parameters still out of range.  The crew has re-stowed the units to continue off-gassing before deploying the units for operations. 

