ISS On-Orbit Status 04/14/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
Upon wake-up, FE-2 Borisenko performed the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> (oxygen) generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).      [Andrey will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
Borisenko also terminated his first experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
Early in the morning, FE-5 Nespoli concluded his 4<sup>th</sup> (FD120) 5-day suite of HRF (Human Research Facility) Generic 24-hr urine collection sessions with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test.  Samples were deposited in MELFI.  
 
Afterwards, Paolo underwent the associated generic blood draw, with FE-3 Garan assisting with the phlebotomy as operator.  FE-5 then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI.  Paolo also captured a photo of his pH logsheet for downlinking via SSC (Station Support Computer) with his Pro K logsheet.       [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day.  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Generic blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
Ron Garan started his own suite of 5-day sessions with the medical Pro K protocol, collecting urine samples throughout the day for deposit in MELFI, with diet logging after the urine pH spot test.
 
Before breakfast &amp; exercise, Kondratyev, Samokutyayev, Borisenko &amp; Nespoli each completed a 10-min session with the periodic Russian MedOps test MO-10 "Hematokrit", which measures the red cell count of the blood, with one of them acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer, Russian: “Examiner”).  Dmitri then stowed the equipment.  It was the first session for FE-1 &amp; FE-2, the 3<sup>rd</sup> for FE-5 and the 4<sup>th</sup> for the CDR.     [The blood samples were drawn from a finger with a perforator lancet, then centrifuged in two microcapillary tubes in the M-1100 kit's minicentrifuge, and its hematocrit value was read off the tubes with a magnifying glass.  It is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell count (normal range: 30-45%) tends to go down over time.  After the exam, the data were saved in the IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).]
 
FE-6 Coleman started her day in the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), removing the ELT (Experiment Laptop Computer) and instead setting up the MLT2 (MMA/Microgravity Measurement Apparatus Laptop Terminal 2). 
 
In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Cady afterwards readied the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware including MBS (Mixing Bag System), and then conducted her 4<sup>th</sup> session with the VO<sub>2</sub>max assessment, integrated with Thermolab.  After downloading the data to a PCS laptop, Cady powered down, replaced the blood pressure microphone in the PFS cuff, cleaned up and fully stowed all equipment.       [The experiment VO<sub>2</sub>max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% &amp; 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]
 
Kondratyev &amp; Samokutyayev, in another handover activity, updated/initialized the file system on the no. 2 KTsP (Central Post Computer 2) from a flash drive installed on the RS2 laptop (after KTsP2 had been activated from the ground).  The work was supported &amp; monitored by ground specialist tagup.
 
Also in the SM (Service Module), Dmitri &amp; Alex afterwards switched the antenna feeder cables of the KURS-P (passive) automated radar approach &amp; docking system to the K2-VKA instrumentation unit, from SM +Y port to SM –Y (nadir) port where the DC-1 is docked..      [Purpose: Mating of LF (low frequency) and HF (high frequency) antenna feeder cables of the KURS-P system to support vehicle dockings at the DC-1 “Pirs” module.  KURS is the automated radar approach &amp; docking system on the Russian Soyuz &amp; Progress vehicles, with the active (KURS-A) component in the visiting vehicles and the passive transponder/repeater-type KURS-P component in the SM.]
 
Kondratyev also completed the regular (weekly) inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).
 
Meanwhile, Samokutyayev had ~40 min set aside to familiarize himself with the RS (Russian Segment) computers, both the Ethernet/LAN-connected laptops and the auxiliary system laptops (VKS), using  the VKS RODF (Russian Operations Data Files for the Onboard Computer System) as reference.  Sasha also updated the SIGMA ballistic navigation software on the RSK1-T61p computer, replacing vers. 8.6 with vers. 8.6.1.     [Sasha experimented with network tests on the RSS1, RSK1, RSK2 network laptops, file downlinking via the BSR-TM telemetry channel, laptop booting, PC-to-PC comm (MKO) application folders, SIGMA and Photoatlas applications, and antivirus protection procedures.]
 
Garan performed a number of water operations, starting with the periodic offloading of the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) storage tank from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Auxiliary port to a CWC-I (Contingency Water Containers-Iodine) bag.  The PWD could not be used during the offloading.      [Estimated offload time: 15 min.]
 
Next, Ron used the LFTP (Low Flow Transfer Pump) to transfer ULF5/Shuttle condensate from a leaky CWC-I (in a Ziploc bag) to the WPA WWT (Water Processor Assembly / Waste Water Tank) for processing.     [Estimated offload time: 4 hrs.]
 
Later, Cady Coleman performed the weekly 10-min. CWC inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.      [The current card (27-0041C) lists 94 CWCs (1,871.1 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (13 CWCs with 524.2 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 219.2 L in 6 bags containing Wautersia bacteria and 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use;  2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (69 CWCs with 1,243.0 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (76.6 L in 10 bags incl. 7.1 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 5 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (27.3 L in 2 CWCs from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
FE-2 Borisenko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Andrey also performed the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways to see how the ventilation/circulation system is coping with the 6-person crew.     [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]
 
The CDR took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, working today from his discretionary “time permitting” task list, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-6 Coleman supported ground controllers at COL-CC (Control Center) on the ERB2 (Erasmus Recording Binocular) experiment, powering the payload on and checking it out for ground-commanded operations.      [After this step an internal clock started running in ERB2, and all following activities till payload shutdown had to be performed within 1h20m.  ERB uses a three-dimensional (3-D) video camera, the Sony DSR PD150P camcorder and a Nikon SSM-3DC-101 3D photo camera for taking imagery of the environment onboard the ISS for an accurate map of the station’s interior.  The images are transferred by a computer application into a 3D model to be viewed in the Virtual Reality Theater of ESA’s Erasmus Center.]
 
Afterwards, Cady conducted the usual one-hour review of the POC DOUG (Portable Onboard Computers / Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) software pertaining to the upcoming SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) operations.  A brief teleconference with ground specialists followed at ~1:26pm EDT.     [The review involved DOUG setup details for the SPDM LEE (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator / Latching End Effector) lubrication task on ULF6 EVA-2 and the OBSS (Orbiter Boom Sensor System) handoff &amp; stow on S1 truss ops.  DOUG is a special application running on the MSS (Mobile Service System) RWS (Robotics Workstation) laptops that provides a graphical birdseye-view image of the external station configuration and the SSRMS arm, showing its real-time location and configuration on a laptop during its operation.]
 
FE-5 Nespoli used the Velocicalc instrument to take IMV (Intermodular Ventilation) flow measurements in the Kibo JPM at the IMV Ovhd Aft inlet, Stbd Aft inlet &amp; Stbd Fwd outlet.
 
Nespoli also had another 1h20m for prepacking return cargo for STS-134/ULF6.
 
Afterwards, Paolo’s timeline provided for ~1h50m for gathering &amp; transferring US trash and excessed items for disposal in Progress 41P on 4/22.  Dmitri joined Paolo for the Progress loading.     [The trashed equipment includes several expired EDV containers, viz., nos. 964, 965, 966, 896 &amp; 939.]
 
Led by CDR Kondratyev, the 27S crew of FE-1 Samokutyayev, FE-2 Borisenko &amp; FE-3 Garan performed the regular 2h15m Emergency Egress Readiness Drill for Increment 27, followed by a debriefing with the ground.      [This is a standard training exercise conducted to familiarize new crewmembers with the location of emergency equipment (including hatches &amp; passageways), focusing particularly on the passage along the emergency evacuation route.  It includes checking out the position of valves used in emergencies in all ISS modules, an inspection of each hatch for drag-throughs and an audit of all cable cutters and flashlights at the hatches, plus a review of crew interactions in emergencies.  The concluding debrief included a crew report on mechanical obstructions in open hatchways, location of all ammonia respirator kits, and Node-3 fire ports with obstructions.]
 
Alex Samokutyayev concluded his first session of the standard 24-hour ECG (electrocardiograph) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2 protocol, started yesterday.      [After the ECG recording and BP (blood pressure) measurements with the Kardiomed system, Dmitri doffed the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads over the past 24 hours, recording data on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results were then downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data were downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]
 
Andrey Borisenko started his own first session of the MedOps PZE MO-2 24-hour protocol with ECG &amp; BP measurements.
 
Later, Sasha also completed his first data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.     [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
Cady conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks).
 
Before sleep time, Alex Samokutyayev will prepare the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his first experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
The three newcomers, FE-1, FE-2 &amp; FE-3, again had their free time for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization &amp; acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.
 
At ~4:40am EDT, Nespoli powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) for a ham radio session, at 4:45am, with students at Istituto Sociale, Torino, Italy.
 
At ~2:05pm, CDR, FE-3, FE-5 &amp; FE-6 are scheduled for another teleconference with the STS-134/Endeavour crew, to be launched 4/29, as an early kind of “handover”.
 
For getting cleared on US CMS (Countermeasures Systems) by receiving hands-on training on the use of the exercise apparatus by watching experienced crewmembers, Alexandr observed Cady Coleman on ARED.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5).
 
Robotics Operations:    After yesterday’s ground-commanded operations, the SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator), still holding the CTC (Cargo Transport Container) in Arm 1, remains on the Lab PDGF-2.  The SSRMS, on the MT (Mobile Transporter), is at WS7 (Worksite 7).
 
Window Shuttering:   Protective shutters are closed on the Lab window as long as SPDM is on its Lab PDGF.  Paolo today also closed the Kibo JPM shutters to prevent the JPM window gear box from overheating due to the current high Beta angle.
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Lusaka, Zambia (looking at nadir for this small capital city.  Visual cues are center-pivot farmland on both sides of the city), Harare, Zimbabwe (looking at nadir/just right of track.  Harare, just beyond two lakes, has an angular pattern), and Nuku'alofa, Tonga (looking left of track on the north shore of Tonga’s main island). 
 

