ISS On-Orbit Status 04/13/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
Upon wake-up, FE-1 Samokutyayev performed the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> (oxygen) generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).      [Alex will inspect the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
CDR Kondratyev terminated his 11<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
FE-5 Nespoli continued his 4<sup>th</sup> (FD120) suite of sessions with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.  Before sleeptime tonight, Paolo sets up the equipment for his NUTRITION/Repository/Pro K 24-hr urine collections starting tomorrow.  FE-5 also readies the urine collection equipment for Ron Garan whose collections begin on 4/14.      [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day.  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
Nespoli also started his 4<sup>th</sup> (FD120) HRF (Human Research Facility) Generic 24-hr urine collection period, with samples deposited in MELFI.      [The operational products for blood &amp; urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
After FE-3 Garan broke out and set up the appropriate equipment, Paolo Nespoli acted as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) for Ron’s first session with the periodic 30-min US PHS (Periodic Health Status)/Without Blood Labs exam.  FE-3 then logged the data and stowed the equipment.  A subjective evaluation was part of the test.      [The assessment used the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data were then logged on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) and the hardware stowed.  The PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.]
 
FE-1 Samokutyayev completed his first session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.      [Andrey Borisenko assisted Sasha in donning the electrode cap, preparing his head for the electrodes, and applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]
 
Working with Borisenko as another handover activity, Kondratyev conducted the periodic transfer of U.S. condensate water from CWC (Collapsible Water Container) #1083 to the RS (Russian Segment) for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, filling the designated KOV EDV container.  Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.      [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.  BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator.]
 
In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Cady Coleman set up the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) for covering her activities at the BLB (Biolab) and readied the required tools and maintenance items.  Cady then uninstalled the Microscope and Spectrophotometer subsystems from the BLB and packed them for return to Earth on ULF6.
 
Also in the Kibo laboratory, Cady continued her support of CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) for Micro-G)-based life science research by attaching a dummy MEU B (Measurement Experiment Unit B) to the CBEF IU (Incubation Unit) for Micro-G for the new experiment CsPINs (Dynamism of Auxin Efflux Facilitators responsible for Gravity-regulated Growth and Development in Cucumber).       [CsPINs studies the phenomenon of tropism, i.e., the growth or turning movement of a biological organism, usually a plant, in response to an environmental stimulus.  Specifically focusing on gravity, the new JAXA experiment investigates how plants sense gravity as an environmental signal and use it for governing their morphology and growth orientation.  CsPINs plays an important role in the regulation of gravity-dependent redistribution of auxin (a class of plant hormones) and thereby controls gravimorphogenesis (peg formation) in cucumber (Cucmis sativus L.) seedlings.  Gravitropism also interferes with hydrotropism in cucumber roots, in which the dynamism of these facilitators may also play a role.  Cucumber seedlings are used to analyze the effect of gravity on the expressions of CsPINs and unravel their contributions to peg formation.  Hydrotropism is differentiated from gravitropism in roots, and the expressions of CsPINs are compared to determine the interacting mechanism between the two tropisms.] 
 
In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-6 later unstowed &amp; set up the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware, including MBS (Mixing Bag System), for her 4<sup>th</sup> session with the VO<sub>2</sub>max assessment, integrated with Thermolab, scheduled tomorrow.          [The experiment VO<sub>2</sub>max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% &amp; 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]
 
For the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), Coleman performed the periodic inspection of the exercise rope, looking for fraying or damage in the strands and to the recently added rope knot.
 
With Samokutyayev taking documentary photography, Borisenko disassembled the ESA/German Tekh-50/ROKVISS (KONTUR) REU (Robotic External Unit) robotics manipulator arm which Yurchikhin &amp; Skripochka had uninstalled from its external URM-D portable multipurpose work station during the Russian EVA-26 on 11/15/10.  The activity was supported by ground specialist tagup, and the disassembled joints were prepacked for return to Earth.
 
FE-3 Garan performed periodic maintenance on the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) by evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition &amp; sensor calibration.
 
Garan also filled out his first weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).      [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
Later, FE-3 deployed four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies in the Lab (at bay P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307) for two days, to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.      [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]
 
FE-5 Nespoli performed the monthly inspection of the T2/COLBERT treadmill system and its components.  Instead of the standard inspection, Paolo today checked the torque on the Bottom Snubber Bracket fasteners and reapplied witness marks that have worn off.  These brackets sustained the highest stress during an unisolated run last year and these activities will give engineers a new baseline for future inspections.     [Witness marks (12 total) are applied to the X-, Y- &amp; Z-axis jam nuts on each (of four) snubber arm.  Their inspection serves to determine to what degree and which jam nuts are backing off.]
 
Afterwards, FE-5 completed the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on ACLS 1.     [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]
 
Later, Paolo moved to the US A/L (Airlock) and installed the freshly recharged REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly) #1012 into EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) 3005. 
 
Andrey Borisenko had another 1.5 hrs for transferring cargo items from Soyuz 26S (#231) to the ISS, logging moves in the IMS (Inventory Management System).
 
Andrey also made his way into the SA/Descent Module of the newly arrived Soyuz TMA-21/26S spacecraft and dismantled the two "Klest" (KL-152) TV cameras and their light units for return to the ground for reuse, temporarily stowing them in the SM.
 
CDR Kondratyev meanwhile worked ~2h40m in the Progress 41P cargo ship, loading and stowing trash and excessed equipment for disposal.     [41P undocking is scheduled for 4/26.]
 
Afterwards, Dmitri performed hardware deactivation &amp; close-out activities on the TEKh-43 Radioskaf-B “Kedr” test microsatellite in the MRM2 Poisk module which had been connected to an 825M3 Orlan battery and operated its 430 MHz transmitter yesterday.      [The small satellite was named Kedr in honor of the call sign of Yuri Gagarin.  It was activated onboard the station on April 12 for Cosmonautics Day, when the world celebrated the anniversaries of the first human flight into space and the first Space Shuttle flight.  Development, manufacturing and launch of Kedr is the first phase in Russia’s integrated program approved by UNESCO, with the goal to create and operate mini-satellites with a mass less than 100 kg by combined efforts of students across the world.  Once Kedr was activated, it was to transmit 25 greetings in 15 languages, pictures of Earth, and telemetry data from science hardware and support systems, as well as historical audio recordings.  50 years after Gagarin’s flight all ham radio operators across the world thus had a unique opportunity to hear the famous “Poyekhali” (Off we go!) from Earth orbit.]
 
FE-5 Nespoli had to repeat the fit check of his Kazbek couch in the Soyuz TMA-20/25S (#230), docked at MRM1, since his fit check on 4/11 had shown a clearance of less than 8 mm at the top of his head.      [With the CDR assisting and taking measurements, Paolo donned the Sokol suit, strapped himself in the shock-absorbing Kazbek in the SA Descent Module and assessed the degree of comfort provided by the seat liner and whether it affords uniform body support in the neck, back and pelvis areas.  For the fit check, crewmembers remove their flight suit cabin apparel and don Sokol KV-2 suit &amp; comm caps, get into in their seats and assess the degree of comfort and uniform body support provided by the seat liner.  Using a ruler, they then measure the gap between the top of the head and the top edge of the structure facing the head crown.  The results are reported to TsUP.  Kazbek-UM couches are designed to withstand g-loads during launch and orbital insertion as well as during reentry and brake-rocket-assisted landing.  Each seat has two positions: cocked (armed) and noncocked. In cocked position, they are raised to allow the shock absorbers to function during touchdown.  The fit check assures that the crewmembers, whose bodies gain in length during longer-term stay in zero-G, will still be adequately protected by the seat liners for their touchdown in Kazakhstan, either emergency or regular return.]
 
Later in the day, Dmitri completed another data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was his 11<sup>th</sup> run.     [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
Afterwards, Andrey also performed the MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, his first run.
 
The CDR set up &amp; readied the equipment for a session with the periodic Russian MedOps test "Hematokrit" (MO-10), to be conducted tomorrow by Andrey, Alex, Paolo &amp; himself.
 
Sasha meanwhile serviced the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet, downloading the latest batch of ISS structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.     [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in the PGO section behind panel 104.]
 
Using three of the new GSC (Grab Sample Container) units, Ron Garan took the periodic air samples in the center of the SM (#2053), Lab (#2055) and JPM (#2054).
 
Before sleep time, Andrey Borisenko will prepare the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his first experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
Andrey also conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Samokutyayev took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, working today from his discretionary “time permitting” task list, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Garan, Nespoli &amp; Coleman had an hour set aside for a joint review of the timelines and tasks of the upcoming four ULF6 spacewalks.
 
The three newcomers, FE-1, FE-2 &amp; FE-3, had their free time for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization &amp; acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.
 
Ron spent ~1 hr with Cady in another handover session, the 3<sup>rd</sup>, during which Cady familiarized her compatriot with USOS (US Segment) activities.
 
Early in the day, the CDR set up the G1 video camcorder to cover his workout session on the TVIS treadmill, to meet the regular 60-90 day exercise video requirement biomechanical evaluation of the on-orbit crewmembers, and evaluation of the hardware status.  Later, Samokutyayev took down and stowed the camcorder after his own treadmill session.
 
At ~8:50am EDT, Ron, Paolo &amp; Cady conducted a 30-min teleconference with ground specialists to discuss details of an uplinked draft ULF6 cargo transfer list.
 
At ~11:55am, Nespoli powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) for a ham radio session, at 12:00pm, with students at Hopewell Ave Public School, Ottawa, ON, Canada.      [Use of the ham radio equipment in the SM had been prohibited during the TEKh-43 Radioskaf operation.]
 
FE-3 &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) scheduled, via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Ron at ~12:20pm, Cady at ~3:35pm.
 
As part of getting cleared on the US CMS (Countermeasures Systems), Andrey received the hands-on training on the use of the exercise apparatus by observing experienced crewmembers – Cady Coleman on ARED.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1).      [T2 snubber arm inspection must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
Robotics Operations:    With Russian thrusters again disabled from 9:30am-11:30am EDT due to load constraints during MT (Mobile Transporter) travel, major robotics operations are being continued under ground control, starting at 11:45am with MSS (Mobile Service System) power-up and extending until ~4:15pm with MSS power-down.  The SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator, still holding the CTC (Cargo Transport Container) in Arm 1) remains on the Lab PDGF where it was positioned yesterday.    [Activities involved moving the MT from WS2 (Worksite 2) to WS7, walking off the inchworm-like SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) to MBS PDGF-2 (Mobile Base System / Power &amp; Data Grapple Fixture 2), followed by base change from PDGF-3 to MBS PDGF-2, release of PDGF-3, and the usual Joint diagnostics as part of ULF6 prelaunch checkout requirements.  Tomorrow:  Walkoff to MBS PDGF-4.]
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Gaborone, Botswana (looking just left of track.  Gaborone is the largest city and capital of Botswana, and is situated on the Notwane River in the southeastern corner of the country.  Overlapping frames of the urban area were requested), Aurora Borealis, Alaska, NW Canada (looking left of track for ~7 mins.  Activity predicted as moderate), and St. Helena Island, Atlantic Ocean (nadir pass over this historic island where Napoleon was held).
 

