
Standard Measures (SM):  The crew performed their saliva collection and insertion into MELFI.  The aim of the SM investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.
Vection: The crew setup the appropriate hardware, performed the Vection science session, stowed the hardware and transferred to the session data to the ground.  The principal investigator confirmed the data is on the ground and looks good.  Vection is made up of 3 tasks that test how orientation perception, motion processing, and depth perception are affected by long duration 0g and return to 1g. The objective of the study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, and how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
Veggie PONDS (Passive Orbital Nutrient Delivery System): The crew reviewed the On-Board Training (OBT), inspected/took imagery of the Veggie PONDS plant growth units, and watered them as needed.  It has previously been noted that germination has been delayed or has not occurred at all in the various PONDS units in the on-going experiment session.  Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food. Therefore, understanding how plants respond to microgravity and demonstrating the reliable vegetable production on orbit are important steps toward that goal. Veggie PONDS uses a newly developed passive nutrient delivery system and the Veggie plant growth facility aboard the ISS to cultivate lettuce and Mizuna greens which are to be harvested on-orbit, and consumed, with samples returned to Earth for analysis. 
Systems
Food Consolidate: Crew performed a food consolidation to reorganize Node 1 to make room for the transfer of food items from the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) to Node 1 for the newly arrived USOS crewmember.  These crew provisions were delivered on various vehicles including NG-13 and SpX-20. Unused items and United States Crewed Vehicle (USCV) food provisions removed from the food pantry were stowed in the PMM. 
Soyuz Descent Drill:  In preparation for their departure from the ISS on Thursday evening, the 61S Crew completed a nominal descent and landing drill today.  During this training, the crew was inside their Soyuz spacecraft reviewing and practicing undock and landing procedures. 
ISS Crew Handover: 61S crew continued handover to 62S crew including on-orbit practices and lessons learned related to ISS systems and payloads. They also reviewed topics that are not limited to a particular module or scheduled activity as well as those that are usually scheduled as separate activities. This will allow the crew to be on the same page regarding various onboard techniques.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Routine Maintenance: Today, the crew replaced the receptacle and filter in the WHC.  Upon replacing the components, the crew performed a successful functionality test of the unit. Routine maintenance allows for continuous hardware operation and minimizes the possibility of a functional failure. Periodic checks during this maintenance verifies the equipment is operating within specification.

