
Metabolic Tracking (MT): Earlier today the crew set up the MT hardware and materials for thawing and inoculation. They then injected the thawed inoculum into multiwell BioCells, and inserted them into a NanoRacks Plate Reader.  The crew also took samples from the BioCell B group and placed them into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  The Metabolic Tracking investigation evaluates a rapid, low-cost method for assessing the effects of therapeutic compounds in microgravity. The method contributes to development of custom plans for emergency medical treatment for crew members, using primary tissue samples. This investigation also determines the feasibility of developing improved pharmaceuticals in microgravity using a new method to test the metabolic impacts of drug compounds. This could lead to more effective, less expensive drugs. 
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Biochemical Profile and Repository):  A 53S crewmember collected blood and urine samples yesterday and today for his FD120 session of the Biochem Profile investigation.  A 54S crewmember collected urine samples today for his FD30 Biochem Profile session. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body. 
Mouse Stress Defense:  The crew temporarily relocated the Mouse Habitat Cage Units from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) to the Glove Box to perform maintenance on the cage units.  They replaced waste collecting equipment and odor filters.  Microgravity provokes cellular mechanical stresses and perturbs cellular signaling, leading to reduction of muscle and bone density. To overcome these stresses, one of the promising strategies is to activate Nrf2, a master regulator of antioxidant pathway. Mouse Stress Defense investigates how Nrf2 contributes to effective prevention of space-originated stresses.  
Using Brachypodium distachyon to Investigate Monocot Plant Adaptation to Spaceflight (APEX-06):  The crew harvested the plants for the APEX-06 investigation today. They took photographs of all 12 science containers and then preserved samples and placed them into a MELFI.  The APEX-06 experiment investigates the growth of the common grass species Brachypodium distachyon in the microgravity environment of space. The grasses grow from seedlings aboard the ISS, and are returned as frozen samples to Earth-based labs for detailed analysis and comparison with Earth-based control groups. APEX-06 aims to compare the growth and gene-expression patterns of Brachypodium distachyon with those of the dicotyledonous model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, which has been extensively studied in space and whose behavior in microgravity is better understood.
Advanced Imaging, Folding, and Assembly of Colloidal Molecules (ACE-T-9):  Today the crew inserted the ACE-T-9 module inside of the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) auxiliary fluids container. The ACE-T-9 experiment involves the imaging, folding, and assembly of complex colloidal molecules within a fluid medium. This set of experiments prepares for future colloidal studies and also provides insight into the relationship between particle shape, colloidal interaction, and structure. These so-called “colloidal molecules” are vital to the design of new and more stable product mixtures. 
AstroPi: Today the crew transferred the AstroPi with the infrared camera to the Node 1 nadir hatch window for execution of student software for the European AstroPi Challenge 2017-2018.  AstroPis are augmented Raspberry Pi computers equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detect how the station moves through space, and pick up the Earth’s magnetic field. One of the AstroPis has an infrared camera and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): Today the crew retrieved eight RaDI-N detectors from a Node 3 location and handed them over to a Russian crewmember for processing. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation measures neutron radiation levels while onboard the ISS. Bubble detectors used as neutron monitors are designed to only detect neutrons. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Maintenance:  The crew completed a loop scrub on Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) #3004 and #3008 loop, iodination of the ion filters, and water conductivity tests.  These activities are nominally performed every 90 days.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  Yesterday, the Robotics Ground Controllers stowed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2). Next they walked the SSRMS off Node 2 onto MBS PDGF3 and unstowed the SPDM. Then, after having rotated the SPDM Enhanced Orbital Replaceable Unit (ORU) Temporary Platform (EOTP), they maneuvered SPDM Arm 2 to unstow Robot Micro Conical Tool 2 (RMCT2) from SPDM Tool Holder Assembly 2 (THA2). Earlier today, ground controllers retrieved the Material on ISS Experiment – Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) Transfer Tray (MTT) from the JEM Airlock.  The Mobile Transporter (MT) was then moved from worksite 6 (port side) to worksite 2 (stbd side).  

