
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM): Over the weekend, Robotics Ground Controllers transferred BEAM from the SpX-8 Dragon trunk to the Node 3 Aft Port.  Activities included Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) prep for mate and inspection, BEAM extraction, maneuver to install position, CBM capture, and BEAM release. The crew and ground utilized the Node 3 Aft Active CBM to capture and bolt BEAM to the ISS. BEAM inflation is currently planned for late May.
 
Cell Mechanosensing 3 (CMS-3) Operations and Closeout: Over the weekend, the remaining microscope observations for the JAXA Cell Mechanosensing-3 investigation were completed. Today, the crew performed closeout activities by removing the Observation and Measurement Experiment Units from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF). The CMS-3 investigation identifies gravity sensors in skeletal muscle cells to develop countermeasures to muscle atrophy. Scientists believe that the lack of mechanical stress from gravity causes tension fluctuations in the plasma membrane of skeletal muscle cells which changes the expression of key proteins and genes and allows muscles to atrophy.
 
Genes in Space: Crewmembers completed activation and checkout prior to performing a hardware test to prepare for the Genes in Space exercises planned for this week.  The Genes in Space investigation is a winning student-designed experiment to test whether the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) can be used to study DNA alterations aboard the ISS.  Spaceflight causes numerous changes to the human body, including alterations in DNA and a weakened immune system. Understanding whether these two processes are linked is important for safeguarding crew health, but DNA technology that can track these changes is relatively untested in space.
 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Microchannel Diffusion Configuration: Crewmembers configured the LMM for the Microchannel Diffusion investigation. The Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE) sample will be removed from the Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC) prior to the Bio Base being installed into the LMM AFC and the Diffusion Plate being installed onto the Bio Base. The objective of Microchannel Diffusion is to provide insight into how microparticles interact with the surface of confining microchannels in the absence of gravitational forces. The analysis focuses on how physical and electrostatic confinement affect the diffusive transport of microparticles in microchannels. Insight into confined diffusive transport is relevant for “on- Earth” applications including drug delivery, molecular sieving and particle filtration. The study provides an understanding of microparticle diffusive transport, which can be important for future technological applications for space exploration.
 
Intracranial Pressure & Visual Impairment (IPVI): The crew participated in observations as part of the IPVI payload.  Recent studies have shown some crewmembers on the International Space Station experience swelling of the optic nerve, which can affect their vision. This may be because of elevated intracranial pressure, or pressure inside the head, which happens in microgravity. The investigation aims to confirm that eye abnormalities, such as swelling of the optic nerve, happen in crewmembers whose cranial pressure has increased. The investigation’s non-invasive measurement methods could be used for early detection of this pressure change.
 
Energy Preparation: The crew gathered the PFS Face Mask Kit and the food kit needed to support the upcoming European Space Agency (ESA) Energy experiment. The Energy investigation assesses energy requirements of astronauts on long-duration missions. This is important for future planning of longer-duration missions, to the Moon and Mars for example, in order to launch sufficient food supplies (but not too much), which have a positive impact on mission costs and goals.
 
Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Installation: The Small Fine Arm (SFA) Airlock Attachment Mechanism (SAM) was installed on the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table (ST) followed by MPEP installation on the SAM in preparation for Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Demonstration (JSSOD)-M1 deploy planned for April 27. Following completion, the Slide Table was retracted back into the JEMAL. MPEP is a new, transportable platform which interfaces with JEMAL and JEMRMS. Electrical Mechanical Grapple Fixture (EMGF) is attached on the MPEP so that any payload on the MPEP can be transported anywhere within JEMRMS reachable envelope. In addition, power, video and communication interface is available via EMGF. The MPEP plays a key role in enhancing ISS utilization using JEM unique capability with the JEMAL and JEMRMS.
 
Electromagnetic Levitator (EML) Preparation: The crew prepared the EML facility for the upcoming EML Batch 1 exercise. They installed and removed the EML reprogramming cable after the Limit Parameter Sets of the EML Sample Chamber were reprogrammed by ground teams. The crew also changed the measurement mode of the EML high speed camera. EML is designed for containerless materials processing in space. EML is a facility composed of 4 inserts installed in the European Drawer Rack (EDR). Samples are installed in a dedicated Sample Chamber that is attached to EML and will be replaced by new Sample Chambers for new experiment batches.
 
On Board Training (OBT) Crew Health Care System (CheCS) Drill: The 46S crew completed this OBT which provides the opportunity to review procedures, hardware and communication methods necessary to manage a medical emergency. Emergency medical equipment was deployed and the crew practicef CPR positioning to ensure familiarity with procedure execution.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: The Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) will walk off from the Lab Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) to Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF 1.  The Mobile Transporter (MT) will be translated from Worksite (WS)6 to WS2 and the SSRMS will begin a survey of the clearances between the starboard Crew and Equipment Translation Aid (CETA) cart and the starboard Solar Alpha Rotary Joint (SARJ).  The survey will confirm adequate clearance between the CETA cart and the SARJ when the MT is at WS1.
 
Orbital-6 (OA-6) Cargo Transfer Status: The crew has completed 19:35 hours of cargo transfer. Remaining time needed for completion is 32.51 hours.
 

