
Ku Control Unit (KCU) Software Transition: Following yesterday’s swap to KCU2, running the new R4 software, the KCU2 modem card stopped processing Ku forward commands. An eventual power cycle of the entire KCU2 unit recovered KCU2 forward link. Later the KCU2 modem card once again stopped processing Ku forward commands. Ku was transitioned back to ICU 1, which is running ICU R3 software, and we have recovered nominal Ku coverage. Ground teams continue to troubleshoot KCU2 following the transition to R4. 
Progress 69P ISS Reboost: This morning the ISS completed a nominal reboost using the 69P thrusters.  The purpose of the reboost was to start phasing for 53S landing in June and 70P 2-orbit constraints in July.  The reboost time of ignition (TIG) was at 108/10:50:00 GMT (Wednesday, April 18, 05:50:00 AM CDT), with a burn duration of 2 m 06 s. 
Human Research Program (Biochemical Profile and Repository):  A 53S crewmember collected blood and urine samples for his FD120 sessions of the Biochem Profile, Repository and Cell Free Epigenome investigations.  A 54S crewmember collected urine samples for his FD30 sessions of the Biochem Profile and Repository investigations.

The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. The repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.
The JAXA Cell Free Epigenome investigation tests blood samples collected from astronauts and cellular genes are analyzed.  Blood carries molecular signals released from the cells inside the body. The analysis results provide insights to scientists on how human bodies function during space flight.

Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS) Protein Crystal Growth (PCG)-9:  The crew extracted liquid from the eight sample bags used for crystal growth, photographed the bags before and after the extractions, and then inserted the sample bags into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on the SpaceX-14 vehicle. The Wisconsin Crystal Growing Contest-Wisconsin Space Crystal Mission (CASIS PCG 9) investigation provides student researchers the opportunity to explore crystal growth in the microgravity environment of the ISS. Crystals grown without the influence of gravity have shown to contain fewer imperfections and grow to larger sizes. Middle and high school students compete to grow the most perfect ground-based crystal, as judged by experts in the crystallography field. The students who present the crystals with the fewest imperfections have the opportunity to fly their experiments to the space station.  
Mouse Stress Defense:  The crew temporarily relocated the Mouse Habitat Cage Units from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) to the Glove Box to take blood samples. They then processed the samples in a centrifuge and placed them into a MELFI.  Microgravity provokes cellular mechanical stresses and perturbs cellular signaling, leading to reduction of muscle and bone density. To overcome these stresses, one of the promising strategies is to activate Nrf2, a master regulator of antioxidant pathway. Mouse Stress Defense investigates how Nrf2 contributes to effective prevention of space-originated stresses.  
Metabolic Tracking (MT): The crew took BioCell samples today for the MT investigation and then placed them into a MELFI.  The Metabolic Tracking investigation evaluates a rapid, low-cost method for assessing the effects of therapeutic compounds in microgravity. The method contributes to development of custom plans for emergency medical treatment for crew members, using primary tissue samples. This investigation also determines the feasibility of developing improved pharmaceuticals in microgravity using a new method to test the metabolic impacts of drug compounds. This could lead to more effective, less expensive drugs.
Story Time From Space:  A crewmember participated in the Story Time from Space project by reading “You are the First Kid on Mars” while being videotaped.  The recording will be downlinked and used for educational purposes. Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded onboard the ISS. Crew members read science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books on orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials. 
Joint Station LAN (JSL) Firewall Install in Lab and NODE 2 (N2): Today the crew installed a hardware JSL firewall, power supply, and networking cabling in the US LAB in preparation for the JSLv11 transition. This transition will provide additional security to ISS computer assets and facilitate smoother integration of Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS) hardware into the ISS JSL network. 
Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Oxygen Repress Termination: Today ground controllers terminated an oxygen repress, initiated on GMT 44, from the NORS system. The crew closed the oxygen isolation valve and removed the oxygen recharge tank for return to the ground. A leak check of the oxygen system confirmed a successful repress.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last night, robotics controllers used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to transfer one MISSE Sample Container (MSC) from the MTT to the MISSE Flight Facility (FF).  Tonight, controllers will transfer the final three MSCs. 

