ISS On-Orbit Status 04/13/09
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Underway: Week 2 of Increment 19.
 
 FE-2 Wakata started the day with the daily download of the accumulated data of the SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight) experiment from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of another week-long session with SLEEP, his second.     [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 The FE-2 also continued the extended “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures experiment, today again ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.    [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens will be tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.] 
 
 With FE-1 Barratt first acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer), CDR Padalka underwent the US PHS (Periodic Health Status) Without Blood Labs exam. Afterwards, Mike Barratt became the subject of the assessment, with Wakata serving as CMO.  A subjective evaluation is part of the test.    [The assessment used the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data were then logged on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) and the hardware stowed.  The PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software on the MEC laptop.]
 
 In the RS (Russian Segment), CDR Padalka deactivated the Elektron oxygen generator, safing it with the standard nitrogen purge.
 
 Afterwards, the CDR deactivated the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and VD-SU control mode and then installed a spare ROM/read-only memory unit (PZU) in the PTsB Central Processor Subsystem unit in the SM. 
 
 Gennady also ran the periodic command &amp; data link tests, first on the primary KTsP1(CPC1)-TsVM(SMSS)-TVM(SMTC) string from Laptop 1, then on the secondary KTsP2(CPC2)-TsVM(SMCC)-TVM(SMTC) string from Laptop 2, both runs monitored by TsUP-Moscow.    [KTsP = Central Post Computer; TsVM = Central Computer; TVM = Terminal Computer.]
 
 Mike Barratt set up the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) hardware, checked it out and used it to measure his body mass.    [SLAMMD, performed first on Expedition 12 in December 2005, provides an accurate means of determining the on-orbit mass of humans spanning the range from the 5th percentile Japanese female and the 95th percentile American male.  The procedure, in accordance with Newton’s 2nd Law of Motion, finds the mass by dividing force, generated by two springs inside the SLAMMD drawer, by acceleration measured with a precise optical instrument that detects the position versus time trajectory of the SLAMMD guide arm and a micro controller which collects the raw data and provides the precise timing.  The final computation is done via portable laptop computer with SLAMMD unique software.  To calculate their mass, crewmembers wrap their legs around a leg support assembly, align the stomach against a belly pad and either rest the head or chin on a head rest.  For calibration, an 18-lbs. mass is used at different lengths from the pivot point, to simulate different mass values.  Crew mass range is from 90 to 240 lbs.]
 
 The CDR performed routine preventive maintenance on the SM Rodnik water storage system, opening and closing the KN water &amp; KV pressurization valves from the Rodnik panel.    [The procedure of activating each valve twice is intended to keep the valves functional during long-term water storage.]
 
 Dr. Mike conducted a run with the MedOps experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), his first onboard session, by logging in on the MEC laptop and performing the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.     [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]
 
 In the RS, Gennady had an hour set aside for conducting the periodic inventory of docking &amp; internal transfer system (SSVP) accessories.    [These include handles, extensions, special tools, clamps, plugs etc., stowed in kits and cases in the Soyuz BO (Orbital Module), FGB GA (Pressurized Adapter), FGB PGO (Instrumentation Cargo Compartment), SM PrK (Transfer Tunnel), DC1 VPS (Docking Compartment/Upper Hemisphere Shell), and DC1 TsNS (Cylindrical &amp; Lower spherical Shell).]
 
 The FE-1 took care of the daily status check on the BCAT-4 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-4) science payload, running by itself since 4/3.    [The status check, conducted on the last image taken by the DCS 760 digital still camera which is controlled by EarthKAM software on an A31p laptop, is to verify proper image focus and camera alignment.  The SSC (Station Support Computer) is taking photography of the phase separation occurring in the BCAT Sample 3, with the photo flash going off every half hour.] 
 
 Barratt also performed the daily procedure of flushing the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) ambient line with ~50mL of water (into a towel/Ziploc bag).  PWD water is currently cleared only for hygienic use.     [While final analysis of the PWD sample results on the ground is still pending, experts recommend keeping water flowing in the line daily to help control microbial growth.  The flushing will be done daily unless at least this amount has been dispensed for other activities during the day).]
 
 Gennady started another round on the monthly preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, cleaning Group A fans and grilles in the SM and the VD1 &amp; VD2 air ducts in the DC1.
 
 Koichi Wakata checked out the US SLM (Sound Level Meter) instrument and then used it to conduct the periodic noise level measurements program in the station interior for a 2-hr acoustic survey, including transfer of the recorded data to the MEC.      [A total of 54 acoustic measurements were obtained, specifically at 13 locations in the Lab, 12 locations in the SM, ten in the JPM , four in the JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment), eight locations in Node-2 and 7 locations in Columbus.  The SLM gives instantaneous noise levels and their frequency spectra, which are transferred to the MEC laptop via an RS232 cable and later downlinked with regular CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) data dump or via OCA.]
 
 Gennady performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 Koichi was scheduled for the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Wakata also worked on the TeSS (Temporary Sleep Station) in the US Lab (stbd, pos. Lab1S1), first removing all equipment and cleaning the TeSS with the vacuum cleaner, then installing a Hygiene Liner, then closing out the activity.    [The liner is made of Combitherm plastic and must be kept away from electrical equipment.  This task was on the discretionary “job jar” list yesterday.]
 
 In the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), the FE-2 opened the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) door in the Saibo Rack, to be left open for two nights to reduce the humidity level in the incubator.
 
 Mike &amp; Koichi had an hour reserved for jointly unpacking &amp; stowing 15A-delivered cargo.
 
 The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2), and VELO with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).     [The CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation), which had shown anomalous workload indications, is currently “No-Go” as engineers are developing a forward plan for an inspection of its internals.  All CEVIS exercise is being replaced with TVCIS exercise for the near term.]
 
 Afterwards, Padalka transferred the exercise data file to the MEC for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 Gennady &amp; Dr. Mike again had an hour to themselves for general orientation (station familiarization &amp; acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting station residence, if they choose to take it.
 
 No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today.
 
 CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website:
 <a href="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov">http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov</a>  &lt;<a href="http://">http://</a>eol.jsc.nasa.gov/&gt;  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).
 
 
