
New Status:
High Rate Communications System (HRCS) Ku Comm Unit 1 Installation: Commander (CDR) Hadfield and Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn  removed the legacy High Rate Frame Multiplexer (HRFM) and Audio Interface Unit (AIU) scar bracket and installed the Ku Comm Unit 1 into Avionics Rack #3 (LAB1D2). Following Ku Comm Unit 1 installation, the ground performed a software transition to load Integrated Communications Unit (ICU) Revision 1 Patch 8 software to the newly installed Ku Comm Unit. Ku Comm Unit 2 was then reactivated and Ku comm was re-established. A checkout of Ku Comm Unit 1 functionality is currently scheduled for next week.
ENERGY Experiment: Hadfield completed Day 3 of his 10-day ENERGY experiment session. The experiment includes eating a standardized meal, diet logging, specific water intake, measurements of Oxygen uptake, collection of urine samples, and wearing an armband activity monitor.   A loss in astronauts’ body mass is a systematic observation during space flight. The aim of ENERGY is to measure changes in energy balance during long term space flight; measure adaptations in the components of the Total Energy Expenditure (consumption); and to derive an equation for the energy requirements of astronauts.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Radiation Area Monitors (RAMs) Installation: Cassidy deployed 25 RAMS delivered on 34 Soyuz and retrieved 24 RAMs delivered on 32S. He photo documented each newly deployed RAM for location and configuration reference for the ground teams. Retrieved RAMS will be returned on 33S.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Clean: Cassidy cleaned the starboard CQ intake and exhaust duct, fan and flow sensors. This is done every 6 months as preventive maintenance.
Previous Status (04/10/13)
ENERGY Experiment: Commander (CDR) Hadfield completed the Day 2 of 10 of his ENERGY experiment session.  The experiment includes eating a standardized meal, diet logging, specific water intake, measurements of Oxygen uptake, collection of urine samples, and wearing an armband activity monitor.   A loss in astronauts’ body mass is a systematic observation during space flight. The aim of ENERGY is to measure changes in energy balance during long term space flight; measure adaptations in the components of the Total Energy Expenditure (consumption); and to derive an equation for the energy requirements of astronauts.
Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus Fuel Reservoir Replacement: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy removed and replaced one of the Fuel Reservoirs with the MDCA Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) pulled partially out of the Combustion Chamber. The MDCA Fuel Reservoirs contain the liquid fuel used during droplet combustion experiments. This reservoir change out was in support of the FLame Extinguishment (FLEX)-2 experiment, scheduled to be executed by ground controllers. FLEX-2 is the second experiment on the ISS which uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Node 1 Isolation Jumper Install: FE-6 Marshburn installed the Node 1 Isolation Jumpers (W5210-1 and -2) on N1RS1 and N1RS2 Secondary Power Distribution Assembly (SPDAs). The installation of these jumpers, coupled with later EVA installation of the Z1 Y-jumpers (currently scheduled for July 2013), allows recovery of Power Bus Z13B or Z14B if there are Direct Current to Direct Current Converter Unit (DDCU) or other upstream power failures.
Capillary Flow Experiments (CFE) Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-9 Operations: Marshburn reviewed procedures, set up the hardware, and conducted fluid test runs of this experiment. CFE is a suite of fluid physics experiments that investigates how fluids translate across surfaces in microgravity. The results aim to improve current computer models that are used by designers of low gravity fluid systems and may improve fluid transfer systems for water on future spacecraft.
Station Support Computer (SSC) Printer Swap: Cassidy configured and moved the LAB printer to the Service Module (SM) to replace the failed SM printer. He then deployed a spare printer to replace the LAB printer.  This brings the ISS back to the nominal configuration of two deployed printers.
Node 1 Starboard (Stbd) Aft Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Fan Cleaning/Valve Inspection: Hadfield inspect for and removed foreign object or debris (FOD) from IMV fan inlet flow straighter and silencers in Node 1 Stbd Aft. He then inspected valves for proper installation. The valves have a circular disc that rotates open and closed by a motor-driven shaft. This disc is secured to the shaft with a set-screw that engages a hole in the shaft. Some IMV Valves were found to have improperly installed set-screws that were tightened to the side of the shaft rather than engaged in the hole, resulting in valves that do not seal properly. This procedure accesses the valve from the IVA side and inspects the set-screw for improper installation.

