
Payloads:
Advanced Space Experiment Processor (ADSEP): A BioFabrication Facility (BFF) test tissue cassette was removed from the ADSEP facility and prepared for return on SpX-27. There is no viable science currently in this cassette, but was instead in ADSEP to perform engineering evaluations of the systems inside. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe. However, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, Techshot designed their BFF experiment to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
Engineered Heart Tissue-2 (EHT-2): The crew gathered the EHT-2 tissue chambers and performed the steps necessary to exchange the media, obtain samples for later analysis, and add treatments to the appropriate tissue growth areas. A Human iPSC-based 3D Microphysiological System for Modeling Cardiac Dysfunction in Microgravity-2 (Engineered Heart Tissues-2) continues work with 3D cultured cardiac muscle tissue to assess human cardiac function in microgravity. Previous work with 3D cultures in space detected changes at the cellular and tissue level that could provide early indication of the development of cardiac disease. This investigation tests whether new therapies prevent these negative effects from occurring.
Ice Cubes: The crew removed and stowed Experiment Cubes #6 (Kirara 4) and #9 (Spaceomix 3). The ICE Cubes Facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration, or educational objectives. During flight, users are able to have near real-time telemetry and telecommanding capabilities with the Experiment Cube from any location with an internet connection. The ICE Cubes service provides fast and direct access to the ISS for any country, any institute, or any entity.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM) Mission 83: Following a week of science operations, the experiment was concluded and the hardware was stowed. As of the latest reports, more than 9700 students from 23 countries had signed up to participate. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Systems:
JAXA ThinkPad T61p Laptops Battery Removal: The crew removed the battery packs from the JAXA ThinkPad T61p laptops and placed them in a Jettison Stowage Bag (JSB) for trash. Following the removal of the old battery packs, the crew installed new ThinkPad T61p battery packs and powered on the T61 Laptops for use. The ThinkPad T61p is a Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) laptop computer. It was the standard hardware used by all Station Support Computers (SSC) aboard the International Space Station before the ZBook upgrade.
Wanted EVA Needle Nose Pliers: The crew located the previously reported lost EVA Needle Node Pliers and transferred the hardware over to the RS crew. This tool is required for use on the upcoming RS EVA #56. Needle Nose Pliers are a generic contingency EVA tool with large handle openings for the EMU glove and angled jaws for access to tight places. Additionally, this tool can be used to remove FOD or hold something small.
