ISS On-Orbit Status 04/11/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
After breakfast, FE-1 Shkaplerov performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  
 
FE-6 Pettit tended to the JAXA SSHDT (Super Sensitive High Definition TV), transferred from the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) to the Node-3/Cupola for taking video of North Pole auroras and night views of Japan for 5 days (i.e., 4/9 – 4/13).      [About 4 hrs later, Don exchanged the 32GB memory card and restarted recording (once a day).  For the first 3 days, the SSHDTV uses a single 4.8mm focus lens with IR Cut Filter 3 and for the remaining 2 days a single focus 8mm lens.]
 
After setting up the necessary equipment in the morning, Dan Burbank was the subject for his 2<sup>nd</sup> session with the periodic 30-min US PHS (Periodic Health Status)/Without Blood Labs exam, with FE-5 Kuipers acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).   The CDR then logged the data into the DCT (Data Collection Tool) and stowed the equipment.  A subjective evaluation was part of the test.    [The assessment used the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data were then logged on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) and the hardware stowed.  The PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.]
 
FE-1 Shkaplerov undertook his 4<sup>th</sup> session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.         [Anatoly Ivanishin stood by to assist Anton in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes and applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]
 
Working in the US Lab on AV-2 (Avionics Rack 2, at bay D1), Don Pettit connected the JSL iAPS (Joint Station LAN / Improved Automated Payload Switch) hardware to an open OpsLAN port on the ISL (Integrated Station LAN) Interface Panel.
 
In the Russian ASU toilet facility, FE-4 Kononenko removed an SD1-7 light fixture and installed a new unit, its power supply unit and nominal cable.  The old unit was pre-packed for disposal.
 
FE-2 Ivanishin spent several hours on the standard water sample collections for return to Earth on Soyuz TMA-22/28S (4/27).       [Samples were collected in the SM from the KAV Condensate Container of the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor (water recovery system) upstream of the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit, and, into empty drink bags, from the SVO-ZV potable water tap, the BRP-M Modified Water Distribution &amp; Heating Unit (after flushing out its TEPL warm port valve several times with water from an EDV container and catching it in a second EDV) and another KAV condensate water from the SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor (Water Recovery System) upstream of the FGS gas/liquid mixture filter/separator and the BKO water purification (multifiltration) unit.  Anatoly then removed sampler &amp; separator and disposed of flush water.]
 
After preparing the MWA (Maintenance Work Area) in the Lab and setting up the video camcorder in Node-2 for downlinking a wide-angle view of activities (recorded during LOS/Loss of Signal), Dan Burbank retrieved the partially assembled Amine Swingbed hardware from the PMM and performed troubleshooting on the swing valve motor circuitry which malfunctioned on 1/13/12.  Dan had ~4 hrs allotted for rewiring the Swingbed valve motor.        [On 1/13, instead of moving from its Isolation position to Flow position, the valve only moved for 0.33 sec, then stopped, after a fuse has blown in the Amine Swingbed Control Unit.  Subsequent troubleshooting by Burbank had indicated the motor wiring as culprit.   Background: The Amine Swingbed, consisting of the Amine Swingbed, Controller with Vacuum Line, Amine Swingbed Mounting Plate, Amine Swingbed Mounting Hardware, Strain Relief Mounting Hardware, Electrostatic Symbol Decal) is a prototype of the CO<sub>2</sub> and moisture control technology to be used in the Orion MPCV (Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle).  It consists of two multilayer sorbent beds in one unit, with a single valve to alternate (“swing”) them between adsorbing from cabin air and desorbing to space vacuum.  The system pulls air from the ISS atmosphere, dries it (and heats it) with a desiccant wheel, cools it back down, scrubs most of the CO<sub>2</sub> and remaining water vapor out, then reheats the scrubbed air, rehumidifies it (and recools it) with the desiccant wheel, then returns the air to the cabin.  Periodically (every 6 - 30 min) the sorbent beds are swapped to expose the freshly vacuum-desorbed bed to the process stream and start regenerating the CO<sub>2</sub>-laden bed.  During bed swap transitions, additional air is saved by equalizing the bed about to be vented with a compressor-evacuated volume.  This will be the first test of the Amine Swingbed payload.  Its purpose is to determine if a vacuum-regenerated amine system can effectively remove carbon dioxide (CO<sub>2</sub>) from the ISS atmosphere using a smaller more efficient vacuum regeneration system.  A similar technology (amine-based pressure swing adsorption) was used on the Shuttle Extended Duration Orbiter, in the form of the RCRS (Regenerative Carbon Dioxide Removal System). The Amine Swingbed payload uses an amine with a significantly greater capacity for CO<sub>2</sub> than the RCRS.  Amines are organic compounds and functional groups that contain a basic nitrogen atom with two “lone pair” electrons.  They are derivatives of ammonia (NH3) wherein one or more of the hydrogen atoms (H) have been replaced by a substituent such as an alkyl or aryl group.  Important amines include amino acids, biogenic amines, trimethylamine, and aniline.  Inorganic derivatives of ammonia are also called ammonia, such as chloramine (NClH2).]
 
With the RS STTS audio comm systems temporarily configured for crew research in MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2), Anton Shkaplerov conducted another active session for the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), followed by downlinking the video footage obtained with a SONY HVR-Z1J camcorder over two RGS (Russian Groundsite) passes (12:43pm &amp; 2:20pm) and reconfiguring STTS to nominal.       [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
After setting up the video camcorder for live view for ground awareness and configuring the ROBoT (Robotic Onboard Trainer) flight simulator for the SpaceX Dragon rendezvous &amp; capture, Don Pettit &amp; André Kuipers conducted a pre-training briefing with ground specialists to provide the crew and ground with the opportunity to review the OBT (Onboard Training) plan as well as late changes to procedures and operations related to Dragon capture which were not known during the crew’s ground training.
 
Afterwards, André &amp; Don conducted the first of three sessions in preparation for Dragon on the ROBoT simulator, with the objectives of practicing (1) both in the M1 &amp; M2 role, (2) malfunction response during free-flyer capture, and (3) good hand controller techniques and successful captures.  A debrief with the ground followed after vsession end, and then the ROBoT equipment was torn down.       [The session included included two “Capture Point Hold” runs (with malfunctions thrown in) and some quick-turnaround nominal cases.]
 
Anatoly Ivanishin took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
FE-2 also completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
In the Lab, André Kuipers accessed the NanoRacks Modules 16 &amp; 18 and collected data for subsequent transfer to the ER-1 (EXPRESS Rack 1) laptop.
 
After clearing the front of the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) rack in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) of stowage bags to make room for using the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device), Pettit set up the SLAMMD equipment and used it for determining his body mass, followed in suit by Kuipers.  Afterwards, Don powered off, disassembled and temporary stowed SLAMMD hardware including the SLAMMD Accessories Kit.       [SLAMMD, performed first on Expedition 12 in December 2005, provides an accurate means of determining the on-orbit mass of humans spanning the range from the 5<sup>th</sup> percentile Japanese female to the 95<sup>th</sup> percentile American male.  The procedure, in accordance with Newton’s 2<sup>nd</sup> Law of Motion, finds the mass by dividing force, generated by two springs inside the SLAMMD drawer, by acceleration measured with a precise optical instrument that detects the position versus time trajectory of the SLAMMD guide arm and a micro controller which collects the raw data and provides the precise timing.  The final computation is done via portable laptop computer with SLAMMD unique software.  To calculate their mass, crewmembers wrap their legs around a leg support assembly, align the stomach against a belly pad and either rest the head or chin on a head rest.  For calibration, an 18-lbs. mass is used at different lengths from the pivot point, to simulate different mass values.  Crew mass range is from 90 to 240 lbs.]
 
Anton, Anatoly &amp; Oleg undertook the periodic (generally monthly) health test with the cardiological experiment PZEh MO-1 (“Study of the Bioelectric Activity of the Heart at Rest”) on the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization), their 3<sup>rd</sup>.     [Equipment used was VPG/Temporal Pulsogram and 8-channel ECG/Electrocardiogram Data Output Devices (USI).  The test took place during an RGS (Russian Groundsite) overflight window (~11:07am EDT) via VHF for data downlink from the VPG and Gamma-1M ECG for about 5-6 minutes.]
 
FE-1 &amp; FE-2 also spent several hours on initial cargo transfer &amp; loading on Soyuz TMA-22/28S, scheduled to depart on 4/27.
 
Kononenko had another ~1.5 hrs allotted aside to continue loading trash and discarded equipment on Progress 46P for disposal, while updating the IMS database concurrently.
 
Anatoly conducted the regular (weekly) inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of cooling loop KOB-2, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).
 
Afterwards, Ivanishin also completed the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.      [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]
 
André undertook the regular monthly session of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on a review of all topics.  At the end, FE-5 completed a self-assessment questionnaire.  Answers were provided at test conclusion.       [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]
 
After the recent troubleshooting on the GHF CE (Gradient Heating Furnace Control Equipment) in the Kobairo rack in Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-6 Pettit today inspected the Scopemeter instrument for proper functioning, checking whether its trigger has been kicked or not, and taking video of the instrument’s window set for CE voltage measurement, then powered off the UOP (Utility Outlet Panel).
 
With its battery freshly charged in the morning, Oleg Kononenko conducted another session with the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment at SM window #9, using it to measure UV (ultraviolet) emissions in Earth’s upper atmosphere during global electromagnetic events (2:10pm-2:30pm EDT) under ground commanding.  Later, FE-4 dismantled the equipment and dumped the data from Laptop 3 via the RSS1 terminal.       [By means of the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka-MV-Kosmos” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and SONY HVR-Z7 HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from window #9, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]
 
Shkaplerov worked on an audit/inventory of computer and comm network equipment in the RS (Russian Segment).
 
At ~3:45pm, Anton was also scheduled to conduct an amateur/ham radio session with contacts in his home region of Balaklava in the Ukraine, part of the city of Sevastopol.     [Balaklava was a city in its own right until 1957 when it was formally incorporated into the municipal borders of Sevastopol by the Soviet government. It also is an administrative center of the Balaklava Raion that used be part of the Crimean Oblast before it was transferred under the Sevastopol Municipality.]

Before Presleep, Pettit will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Don turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Before sleeptime, Oleg will initiate battery charging for the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware.     [The FSS system consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module.  FSS includes the ME Electronics Module &amp; MRI Image Recording Module.]
 
CDR &amp; FE-6 had their regular weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Don at ~1:50pm, Dan at ~2:50pm EDT.
 
At ~10:15am, Burbank, Kuipers &amp; Pettit supported a 30-min PAO TV event – the Expedition 30 Crew News Conference with U.S. media at JSC; via JSC “hone bridge” and with questions from the public via Twitter, voiced up by JSC PAO.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-1, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6).        [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  Today’s exercise called for ARED+T2, with CEVIS following tomorrow.  Today’s exercise called for ARED+T2, with CEVIS, following tomorrow.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.] 
 
Tasks listed for Shkaplerov, Kononenko &amp; Ivanishin on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. run of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with the NIKON D3X digital camera with Sigma AF 300-800mm telelens, focusing on volcanoes Tambora, Ranak, Lock-Empung, Gamalama, Karangetan, Ibu, Dukono, Marapi, Cordon – Kaul &amp; Hudson; Patagonia glaciers: Upsala, Viedma and Chico.;</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).</li></ul> 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Oklahoma City at Night (CITIES AT NIGHT COLLECTION:  ISS had a near-nadir pass over this U.S. Great Plains city with fair weather and an approach from the NW.  Like many American cities in the west, Oklahoma City sprawls over the landscape.  It has an area 621 square miles with a population of only about 600,000.  At this time the crew was to look for this large, but less dense urban area), Los Angeles at Night (CITIES AT NIGHT COLLECTION:  ISS had an excellent, fair-weather pass over America’s second largest city with its approach from the NW.  LA has a population nearing 4 million and an area of 502 square miles.  At this time the crew was to look near nadir for this target and try to update a classic 9-year old view), Mbabane, Swaziland (WORLD CAPITALS COLLECTION SITE:  ISS had a clear pass over this tiny target with its approach from the SW in mid afternoon with Mbabane just left of track.  This small capital city has a population of approximately 95,000 and lies in a wooded highland of the tiny, land-locked nation of Swaziland.  CEO database has no images of this city, and St. Helena Island, Atlantic Ocean (HMS BEAGLE SITE:  Darwin and the Beagle arrived at St. Helena Island on July 8, 1836 and remained for 5 days to explore its geology. The crew was to begin looking for this target a little early, if possible.  Due to its remoteness and small size [47 square miles], there were no visual cues of the island during the approach.  As ISS progressed on a late afternoon pass approaching from the SW, the crew was to look just left of track for this small island.  There may be a few high clouds in the region, but try for detailed shots.
 

