
The Effect of Long-Term Microgravity Exposure on Cardiac Autonomic Function (Biological Rhythms): Kelly set up and donned a Holter Electrocardiogram (ECG).  He will record his ECG data for 48 hours, synching and downlinking the data between 21 and 24 hours after starting.  Biological Rhythms studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours. While ISS keeps Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), it remains unknown whether a separate biological rhythm is imposed on long-term flight crews. To study this, astronauts wear an Actiwatch sleep monitor for 96 hours and a Holter electrocardiograph for 48 hours in the middle of that sequence.
Circadian Rhythms: Cristoforetti configured the Circadian Rhythm Armband Monitor and donned the Thermolab sensors and belt.  She will wear the Circadian Rhythm monitors for 36 hours then doff and download the data on Friday.  The objective of the Circadian Rhythm experiment is to obtain a better understanding of any alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-duration spaceflight.  Such knowledge will provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, and has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest- and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions.  The Circadian Rhythms will be measured by monitoring the bodies core temperature. During the first, mid and last session, the armband system will also be used.
Node 3 (N3) Forward Midbay Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Reconfiguration: Following yesterday’s procedure review and hardware gather, Cristoferetti removed existing IMV hardware from N3 Forward Midby and installed new ducting and an IMV Manual Valve in preparation for the PMM relocate to N3 Forward.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Hard Upper Torso (HUT) Swap: Yesterday the crew moved Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 from the Forward EMU Don/Doff Assembly (EDDA) to the Crewlock and EMU 3005 from the Crewlock to the Forward EDDA. Today Virts and Kelly swapped HUTs between EMU 3005 (size XL) and EMU 3010. This results in EMUs 3003 (size L) and 3010 (size XL) as primary EMUs with 3005 as backup.  Following the HUT swap the crew performed a successful EMU checkout of both 3005 and 3010

