
Payloads:
ADvanced Space Experiment Processor In-Space Production Application – Pharmaceutical In-space Laboratory – 02(ADSEP PIL 02): The sample cassette (S/N 26275) was removed and a new cassette (S/N 26293) was installed. More information on this experiment (ADSEP-PIL-02)can be found here.
Integrated System for Autonomous and Adaptive Caretaking (ISAAC): The crew setup the Astrobee flyers and JEM module for ground commanded free flyer ops, video, and live stream operations. More information on this experiment (Astrobee) can be found here.  
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS Ham pass was initiated with Mrs. Ethelston’s CE Primary Academy at Axminster Community Academy Trust, Lyme Regis, UK. More information on this experiment (ISS HAM Pass) can be found here.  
LUCY: The Lysozyme Crystallization module was uninstalled from Node-2 and stowed. More information on this experiment (LUCY) can be found here.  
Systems:
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued preparing and transferring cargo from ISS to the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until April 26th  before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground
Robotics Proficiency On Board Training (OBT): The crew reviewed the robotics OBT self-study session today. The Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. Robotics proficiency requires the crew to have hands-on real-time operations or OBTs within 60 days and the ROBoT sessions are designed to help maintain this proficiency. 
Emergency Simulation On-Board Training (OBT): Today, the entire crew participated in a training exercise for ISS ammonia, and rapid depressurization emergency scenarios. The emergency training involved crew and ground teams working together to practice communication and coordination while the crew physically translated through ISS to the appropriate response locations to visualize the use of equipment and interfaces. A post-simulation crew conference took place to discuss and evaluate the crew/ground control responses during the training event.
