
SPHEROIDS: The crew completed a data transfer from KUBIK 6 to the European Drawer Rack (EDR) laptop following an automated experiment run. This experiment investigates the effects of microgravity on endothelial cell function with respect to blood vessel formation, cellular proliferation, and programmed cell death. Results could help in the development of potential countermeasures to prevent cardiovascular deconditioning in astronauts and improve knowledge of endothelial functions on Earth.
Plant Gravity Sensing-3 Preparation: In preparation for upcoming Plant Gravity Sensing-3 operations, the crew set up the experiment laptop at Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF), prepared the Seed Paper in a culture dish and placed the kit in the Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  The investigation studies whether plants grown in microgravity conditions can sense the changes in the gravitational acceleration, and the concentrations of calcium in plant cells changes. Gravity is a critical environmental factor affecting the morphology and functions of organisms on Earth. 
Fluid Shifts: With remote guidance from ground teams, the crew performed Fluid Shifts operations by configuring the Refrigerated Centrifuge for sample load operations, conducting body sample collections and stowing the samples in the MELFI. Fluid Shifts is a joint USOS Russian experiment that measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures. 
Rodent Research 3 (RR-3) CASIS Injections: Crewmembers transferred animals to and from the Rodent Habitat and the Micro-Gravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and completed the first day of RR-3 operations. RR-3 studies molecular and physical changes in the musculoskeletal system that happen in space. Results expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
Dose Tracker: The crew configured the Dose Tracker application and completed entries for medication tracking. The investigation documents the medication usage of crew members before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the International Space Station. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  This evening the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) will be unstowed from Mobile Base System (MBS) 2. A Force Moment Sensor (FMS) coarse characterization is planned after which Robotics teams will maneuver the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the starting location for tomorrow’s HTV5 Battery get-ahead tasks. 

