
Fluid Shifts Baseline Imaging:  The 49S and 50S crewmembers continued this week’s Fluid Shifts baseline imagery activities. With one crew member performing as an operator, ultrasound imaging was taken of arterial and venous measures at various body locations. Additional data from the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), a Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) test, ESA’s Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Device, and Intraocular Pressure (IOP) was collected as well. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Everywear Investigation: A 49S crew member completed a sleep questionnaire as part of his Flight Day (FD)140 sleep assessment session.  The crew also removed a biometric patch they were wearing and transferred the data from it.  Everywear makes use of wearable sensors connected to a iPad tablet computer which is wirelessly synchronized with computers on the ground. This system seeks to demonstrate the benefits of extensive physiology data collection for both science and medical followup purposes.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew utilized Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software to review the translation paths during the EXPRESS Pallet Controller Assembly (ExPCA) EVA currently scheduled for May 12.
ISS Reboost: Early this morning the ISS completed a reboost using the Service Module main engines. The reboost was to set up planned conditions for 49S landing on June 2 and 67P launch on June 14. Burn duration was 30 seconds.
Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew has completed ~25.5 hours of cargo transfer. Approximately 12 hours of transfer time remains. 
Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Status: The crew replaced the CEVIS Ergometer as a result of the crew reporting  a grinding noise. Ground teams reviewed video and audio and isolated the noise to a stepper motor in the CEVIS Ergometer. The crew will exercise on the CEVIS to veriify functionality and absence of noise. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday evening, Robotics Ground Controllers walked the Space Station Robotic Manipulator System (SSRMS) from Node 2 to Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 1 (PDGF1).  They then maneuvered the SSRMS to unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from MBS PDGF2 and completed the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) setup for the Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) S11A-C swap with RPCM S14B-G scheduled for tomorrow, April 28th. 

