
New Status:
Columbus Water On Off Valve 7 (WOOV7) Remove and Replace (R&R): During a WOOV8 R&R on January 18, 2013, the crew observed that WOOV7 was notably contaminated from condensation deposits. This morning Commander (CDR) Hadfield pre-gathered required tools and with assistance from Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn, removed and replaced the contaminated unit with a new type of WOOV with an improved design.

Capillary Flow Experiments (CFE)-2 Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-9 Operations: Following yesterday’s hardware setup, Marshburn performed the 4th of 10 planned runs of this experiment. He is scheduled to perform the 5th run Friday. CFE is a suite of fluid physics experiments that investigates how fluids translate across surfaces in microgravity. The results aim to improve current computer models that are used by designers of low gravity fluid systems and may improve fluid transfer systems for water on future spacecraft.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS) Experiment (BASS): Cassidy completed the 4th of 13 sessions planned for this experiment. He is scheduled to perform the 5th session Friday. BASS examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity and will guide strategies for extinguishing fires in microgravity. BASS results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Vascular Experiment: Hadfield performed a blood draw, processed the samples and stowed them in the Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). This activity is performed twice per increment. The Vascular experiment investigates the effects of long-duration spaceflight on the cardiovascular system of astronauts on board the International Space Station (ISS). The changes brought by this unique environment could impact the vascular system and accelerate the stiffening of blood vessels that parallels the aging process.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Window Inspection: Marshburn and Cassidy performed a JEM window inspection during which they documented contamination (smudges, particulates) and damage (scratches, cracks) that were on the window pane surfaces. Emphasis was placed on the exterior surface of the debris pane and interior surface of the pressure pane.

Previous Status (04/22/13)
Columbus Water On Off Valve 7 (WOOV7) Remove and Replace (R&R) Preparation: Commander (CDR) Hadfield pre-gathered hardware in preparation for the WOOV7 R&R scheduled for tomorrow.
Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Hardware Replacement: Cassidy reviewed procedures, gathered hardware, accessed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Combustion Chamber and removed the MDCA Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA). He then replaced the MDCA Needle 1 due to a fuel line that was damaged during previous activities when the MDCA CIA was being removed from the Combustion Chamber. The damage likely occurred when the disconnected end of one of the water hoses slipped across the bayonet that connects the fuel line to the reservoir.
Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students (EarthKAM): Cassidy set up the payload components in Node 2 and activated the camera and software for a week-long imaging session. EarthKAM is an education program that enables thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the International Space Station. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The team at EarthKAM then posts these photographs on the Internet for the public and participating classrooms around the world to view.
Capillary Flow Experiments (CFE) Hardware Setup: Marshburn unstowed CFE hardware, prepared the Maintenance Work Area, secured the CFE hardware on the MWA, and positioned the High Definition (HD) camcorder in preparation for the 4th and 5th of 10 planned sessions scheduled for tomorrow and Friday.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace: Marshburn performed this R&R which is based on WHC flush counts and must be completed before the tank runs dry.
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA)-32 Tool Handover/Stow: Marshburn and Vinogradov transferred US EVA tools used last Friday on EVA #32 from the RS to the USOS. Marshburn then stowed them in their nominal location.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) [СНТ] Test Setup: On July 25, 2012 a Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU)2A Remote Bus Isolator (RBI) 5 overcurrent trip occurred, which powers Service Module (SM) [CHT] (American to Russian Converter Unit) 21 and [CHT]22. The cause of the trip was noise. Over the next 4 days, Hadfield will conduct a test which characterized the magnitude and frequency of the current noise seen by MBSU2A as well as MBSU4A. The test uses an on-orbit oscilloscope and current probe, controlled by the SSC laptop, to measure the magnitude and frequency of the current. Data will be analyzed by the team to determine if the magnitude of the measured noise can damage USOS hardware on-orbit.

