ISS On-Orbit Status 04/22/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     
 
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Progress M-09M/41P undocked nominally this morning at 7:41am EDT after hooks opened at 7:38am.  An automated 15-sec separation burn with DPO-K2 thrusters followed at 7:44am (delta V 0.67 m/s) and a retrograde phasing burn with the SKD engine at 10:48am.  The cargo ship, loaded with trash, is now continuing to phase away from the ISS.  It will perform two retrograde burns tomorrow (4/23), one on 4/24, another one on 4/25 and on 4/26 (~9:15am) the 67.4 m/s deorbit burn for destructive reentry.</li></ul> 
FE-3 Garan, FE-5 Nespoli &amp; FE-6 Coleman completed another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.  It was the 5<sup>th</sup> for Ron, the 28<sup>th</sup> for Paolo &amp; Cady.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
Before breakfast &amp; first exercise, CDR Kondratyev, FE-1 Samokutyayev, FE-2 Borisenko &amp; FE-5 Nespoli each took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis, one of four Russian crew health status assessments currently being conducted (the other three: MO-3 (Physical Fitness Evaluation), MO-7 (Calf Volume Measurement) &amp; MO-8 (Body Mass Measurement).  Afterwards, Dmitri closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware.      [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]
 
Kondratyev, Borisenko &amp; Samokutyayev reviewed uplinked procedures for a major IFM (Inflight Maintenance) task involving the reconfiguration of the SSVP StA Passive Docking Assembly in the SM PkhO (Service Module Transfer Compartment) hatch; Dmitri &amp; Andrey then worked several hours to remove the flat cover of the assembly and to make preparations for more work.      [Steps included preparing for reducing the overall diameter of the flat cover by cutting with a Makita battery-driven jigsaw and drill, plus removing the cover, jacket &amp; outer shell of the PkhO hatch door for the cutting procedure.  The work will be continued on 4/25 &amp; 4/27.]
 
The CDR also completed the regular (weekly) inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).
 
As is standard practice after Russian undockings, the CDR took photographs of Progress 41P’s docking interface ring during separation to verify that no rubber seals were missing on the Progress docking interface and to assess seal integrity.  The JPEG images were downloaded to the RSK1 laptop for subsequent downlink via OCA.     [If a rubber seal is found to be missing, it could be stuck on the DC1 port interface and interfere with the next docking.  This has happened before, requiring an EVA.]
 
After Progress 41P departure, FE-1 Samokutyayev switched the DC1 nadir port hatch pressure equalization valve (PEV; Russian: KVD) to the closed position.
 
With Progress departed and RF interference no longer a concern, FE-5 Nespoli powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply)
 
Continuing his outfitting work in the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) Leonardo started yesterday, Nespoli retrieved eight LSAs (Long Strap Assemblies) from the PMM endcone and used them to tie down the RSP (Resupply Stowage Platform) rack in bay A3 for restraint.
 
FE-6 Coleman undertook another ~30 min Shuttle RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) photography training session, to practice in-cabin shooting using an Orbiter tile diagram cutout and the NIKON D2Xs still camera with 400 mm lens.  During the RPM photo shoot, FE-5 Nespoli will use the 800  mm lens; additional imagery will be taken by CDR Kondratyev with the NIKON D3X and the 1000mm lens in support of vehicle condition analysis (actually the Nikkor 600 mm lens with 1.7x teleconverter).      [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiters at their arrival at the ISS, currently STS-134/Endeavour/ULF6, to be arriving 5/1.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Endeavour, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]
 
In Node-3, Cady Coleman worked on the ITCS MTL (Internal Thermal Control System Moderate Temperature Loop), uninstalling the AmiA (Antimicrobial Applicator) module which she had put in yesterday at the D6 location.  The module was then prepacked for return on ULF6.     [Running for a minimum of six hours, AmiA introduced OPA (Ortho-phthalaldehyde), an antimicrobial agent, into the Node-3 TCS coolant.]
 
FE-3 Garan conducted a 1h15m review of new POC DOUG (Portable Onboard Computers / Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) software covering the OBSS (Orbiter Boom Sensor System) unberthing &amp; handoff during the upcoming ULF6 docked period.      [During EVA-4, the Shuttle RMS (Remote Manipulator System) will hand the OBSS to the station RMS (SSRMS), which will then hand it off to the EV crew for installation on the S1 truss.  After the boom is installed, the SSRMS will be used to provide EV support to replace the FRGF (Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture) on the boom with a PDGF (Power &amp; Data Grapple Fixture).  DOUG is a sophisticated special application running on the MSS (Mobile Service System) RWS (Robotics Workstation) laptops that provides a graphical birdseye-view image of the external station configuration and the SSRMS arm, showing its real-time location and configuration on a laptop during its operation.]
 
Cady Coleman completed a test of the HRF ICV (Human Research Facility / Integrated Cardiovascular) Cardiopres pump, inspecting the Cardiopres device &amp; testing pump connections to check for loose connections.
 
FE-5 Nespoli worked on ER8 (EXPRESS Rack 8) in the Lab, first removing Locker #3 and readying the backplate in preparation for tomorrow’s scheduled setup of the ALTEA-Shield payload, then gathered all the hardware needed for the installation.      [ALTEA-Shield dosimetry uses existing ALTEA (Anomalous Long Term Effects on Astronauts) hardware to survey the radiation environment in the US Lab in 3D.  It also measures the effectiveness and shielding properties of several materials with respect to the perception of anomalous Light Flashes.]
 
In the US Airlock, Nespoli performed regular maintenance on EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) equipment, today on EMU #3009 which he retrieved from the PMM.    [Activities included installing the suit on the Fwd EDDA (EMU Don/Doff Assembly), connecting its LCVG (Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garment) to the suit and filling it with water.  The EMU then underwent the regular “dump and fill” maintenance for its feedwater tank, using PWR (Payload Water Reservoir) #1026 and CWC (Contingency Water Container) #1059.] 
 
Next, Paolo started the periodic loop scrub on the spacesuit, i.e., setting it up with its SCU (Service &amp; Cooling Umbilical) and initiating the standard one-hour scrubbing process on the EMU’s &amp; Airlock’s cooling water loops, filtering ionic and particulate matter (via a 3-micron filter), then reconfiguring the cooling loops and starting the ~2hr biocide (iodination) filtering.       [The activity met the periodic maintenance requirements of EMU #3009; no checkout steps were required.  Loop scrubbing, incl. iodination of the LCVGs (Liquid Cooling &amp; Ventilation Garments) for biocidal maintenance, is done to eliminate any biomass and particulate matter that may have accumulated in the loops.]
 
With STTS comm systems temporarily configured for crew presence in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, Andrey Borisenko conducted an active session for the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), followed by downlinking the video footage obtained with a SONY HVR-Z1J camcorder over an RGS (Russian Groundsite) pass (12:10pm) and reconfiguring STTS to nominal.     [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS (Russian Segment): condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
Activities completed by Alex Samokutyayev included –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Working on the Russian RSK2 &amp; RSS2 laptops to upgrade their SIGMA Ballistics and Navigation Support software by replacing the old version 8.6 with vers. 8.6.1,</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Starting a new round of monthly preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems   [in the FGB, Sasha used the vacuum cleaner and softy brush to clean the detachable VT7 fan screens of the three SOTR gas-liquid heat exchangers (GZhT4) plus the fixed GZhT4 grill.  The old cartridges were discarded and the IMS (Inventory Management System) updated],</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Servicing the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet, downloading the latest batch of ISS structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer during the Progress undocking to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA   [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in the PGO section behind panel 104], and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">Handling the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).</li></ul> 
Borisenko meanwhile completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Garan worked with the Velocicalc instrument to take IMV (Intermodular Ventilation) flow measurements in the ISS interior.
 
Coleman gathered equipment &amp; tools required for the upcoming installation of brackets in the Node-2 CQ (Crew Quarters). 
 
Dmitri Kondratyev undertook the Russian MO-5 MedOps protocol of cardiovascular assessment during graded physical load on the VELO cycle ergometer, assisted by Sasha Samokutyayev as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).     [The assessment uses the Gamma-1 ECG equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels.  Measurements were telemetered down via VHF to RGS (Russian Groundsite) during a comm window at 12:12pm EDT.  For the graded-load exercise, the subject works the pedals after a prescribed program at load settings of 125, 150, and 175 watts for three minutes each.  Data output involves a kinetocardiogram, rheoplethysmogram, rheoencephalogram and a temporal pulsogram.]
 
Afterwards, Dima configured the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted the 1h15m session, his 4<sup>th</sup>, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  Following Kondratyev, Sasha also performed the MBI-21 session, his first. The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]
 
Garan, Nespoli &amp; Coleman had more time allotted to ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) cargo ops, Ron ~2h30ms, Paolo ~1h, Cady ~2h25m, now concerned with gathering items from the ISS to load on “Johannes Kepler” for disposal.  At ~2:50pm, Garan conducted the daily tagup with MCC-Houston to debrief on today’s ATV cargo transfers.
 
At ~4:15am EDT, Dmitri, Alex, Andrey, Ron, Paolo &amp; Cady held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU/Glavnaya operativnaya gruppa upravleniya), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP-Moscow via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
At ~4:30am, CDR, FE-1 &amp; FE-2 linked up with TsUP/Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
At ~4:25pm, the six crewmembers are scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-Houston.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-3, FE-5), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5).
 
Ron performed the “inaugural session” of the new Treadmill Kinematics program on the T2/COLBERT treadmill, setting up the HD camcorder in Node-1, placing tape markers on his body, recording a calibration card in the FOV (Field of View) and then conducting the workout run within a specified speed range.     [Purpose of the Kinematics T2 experiment is to collect quantitative data by motion capture from which to assess current exercise prescriptions for participating ISS crewmembers.  Detailed biomechanical analyses of locomotion will be used to determine if biomechanics differ between normal and microgravity environments and to determine how combinations of external loads and exercise speed influence joint loading during in-flight treadmill exercise.  Such biomechanical analyses will aid in understanding potential differences in gait motion and allow for model-based determination of joint &amp; muscle forces during exercise. The data will be used to characterize differences in specific bone and muscle loading during locomotion in the two gravitational conditions.  By understanding these mechanisms, appropriate exercise prescriptions can be developed that address deficiencies.]
 
WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.       [The new card (27-0041E) lists 94 CWCs (1,840.0 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (12 CWCs with 458.5 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 153.5 L in 5 bags containing Wautersia bacteria and 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use;  2. potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (70 CWCs with 1,277.6 L for reserve;  4. condensate water (76.6 L in 10 bags incl. 7.1 L in 1 bag to be used only for OGA, plus 5 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (27.3 L in 2 CWCs from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Juba River fan, Somalia (mapping pass of near-nadir plains was requested to document present pre-wet season vegetation and stream conditions.  The flat plains of this and neighboring fans receive rainfall runoff from Ethiopia starting this month.  Water from the rivers feeds agriculture.  Wet-season images will be requested in the coming months), Luanda, Angola (looking at nadir or just right of nadir for this major coastal city and capital of Angola.  It appears as a large lighter-toned [de-vegetated] zone, inshore of protecting barrier islands), and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (HMS Beagle Site:  Darwin and the Beagle arrived in the vicinity of Rio de Janeiro [presently a city of more than 7 million] in April of 1832, and undertook an expedition inland.  Looking well right of track and mapping the urban area around the prime visual cue, Guanabara Bay).
 

