
Osteocytes and mechano-transduction (Osteo-4):  Cristoforetti successfully performed Tray 3 operations, removing the last three bioreactors from Osteo-4, and stowed them in MELFI.  The Osteo-4 locker was then powered off.  The three trays of Osteo-4 are an automated bone cell culture experiment that studies the effects of microgravity on the function of osteocytes, which are the most common cells in bone. These cells reside within the mineralized bone and can sense mechanical forces, or the lack of them, but researchers do not know how. Osteo-4 allows scientists to analyze changes in the physical appearance and genetic expression of mouse bone cells in microgravity.
Russian Joint Research (RJR) Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) and Surface Sample Kit (SSK) Analysis: Padalka analyzed the MAS and SSK samples taken on 16 April, performing colony counts and photographing the microbial and fungal slides.  The investigation refines locations and surfaces prone to microbial contamination throughout the ISS, shares monitoring technologies and data between NASA and Roscosmos, and provides a scientific basis for decisions about future microbial monitoring, both on ISS through its extended life, and on other future human exploration spacecraft.
Ocular Health:  Kornienko continued Ocular Health activities, performing his Flight Day 30 fundoscopy, with the assistance of Cristoforetti and ground remote guiders.  The fundoscope is utilized to image the fundus (interior surface of the eye including the retina, optic disc, macula, and fovea). Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Biological Research in Canisters (BRIC)-21: Cristoforetti inserted the four cartridge samples in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), thereby halting the growth period approximately 24 hours after initiation.  The samples will be returned on SpX-6 for ground analysis.  The BRIC-21 investigation tests the hypothesis that microorganisms subjected to a space flight environment experience a spectrum of stress responses, with some leading to alterations in the antibiotic susceptibility. The goals of BRIC-21 are to analyze microbes to identify the suite of stress responses induced by exposure to spaceflight and simulated microgravity, and determine viability, resistance levels to a battery of antibiotics, and rates of spontaneous mutation to antibiotic resistance in microbes.
Gene, Immune and Cellular Responses to Single and Combined Space Flight Conditions – A (Triplelux-A): Cristoforetti stowed the six Triplelux Reservoir A canisters in the Biolab Thermal Control Unit (TCU)1 (-20 °C) and the two Triplelux Experiment Container (EC) Handling Mechanism (HM) Interfaces in the Biolab TCU 2 (+4°C) until start of the experiment run scheduled for next week. Triplelux-A uses a rat macrophage cell line to investigate and compare the ability of macrophages to kill pathogens under normal gravity and microgravity conditions. The goal is to gain a better understanding of immune suppression in spaceflight.
Rodent Research-2 Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (RR-2 CASIS): Kelly and Virts performed the first set of four sample collections with Kelly as primary operator while Virts assisted, placing samples in containment then in MELFI. The objective of this research is to monitor the effects of the space environment on the musculoskeletal and neurological systems of mice as model organisms of human health and disease. Living in microgravity results in significant and rapid effects on the physiology of mice that mimic the process of aging and some diseases in humans on Earth, including muscle atrophy and the loss of bone mineral density. This project will help scientists discover new molecular targets that can facilitate the development of novel therapeutics for the treatment of muscle and bone-related diseases. Long-duration exposure to microgravity will also induce changes in gene expression, protein synthesis, metabolism, and eye structure/morphology that will be identifiable as a series of assessable biomarkers for tracking the onset and progression of disease.
On Board Training (OBT) Dragon Debrief Conference: Virts and Cristoforetti completed a conference with ground teams to debrief lessons learned from the SpX-6 Dragon OBTs performed by the crew prior to berthing. 

