
Payloads:
BioFabrication Facility (BFF)-Cardiac: A Media bag and a Bio-Reactor Bag were retrieved from the Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS-1 (MELFI-1). More information on this experiment can be found here.
Human Brain Organoid Models for Neurodegenerative Disease & Drug Discovery (HBOND): Media was exchanged on two HBOND tissue habitats and the third habitat was terminated and rinsed. More information on this experiment can be found here.
ISS Ham Radio: ISS Ham passes were initiated with American International University, Salmiya, Kuwait, Pleasant Knoll Middle School, Ft. Mill, SC., and Thrive Home School Academy, Colorado Springs, CO. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Microbial Aerosol Tethering on Innovative Surfaces in the ISS-3 (MATISS-3): The MATISS-3 holders were uninstalled and prepared for return. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Rhodium Crystal Preservation-02:  The ambient Rhodium Crystal Preservation-02 science chambers were prepared and packed for return. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Robotic Arm Repair Satellite (RSat): The RSat hardware was removed from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Work Volume (WV). More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued preparing and transferring cargo from ISS to the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until April 26th before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground. 
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
