ISS On-Orbit Status 04/24/10
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday.    &gt;&gt;&gt;Today 43 years ago, Soviet Cosmonaut Vladimir Mikhaylovich Komarov became the first human to die on a space mission, crashing with fowled parachutes on returning in Soyuz 1.  Also, 20 years ago today, the Hubble Space Telescope was launched on STS-31/Discovery.  Happy Birthday, HST!&lt;&lt;&lt;
 
  CDR Kotov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the currently running Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [CDR again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
  The crew had a busy day relocating the T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill from its temporary location in Node-2 to its final place in Node-3.    [While FE-1 Skvortsov gathered and managed parts/components removed during T2 uninstall for redistribution in Node-3 and performing photo documentation of the various procedural steps, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson and FE-6 Creamer removed the T2 system in Node-2 (D5) and then installed it in its designated rack bay in  Node-3 (F5).  FE-5 Noguchi handled the treadmill cabling, removing data &amp; power jumpers in Node-2 and reconfiguring them in Node-3.  Tomorrow, Day 2, will feature installation of the T2 VIS (Vibration Isolation System), along with documentary photography.  Three more days are scheduled until nominal full T2 restoration.] 
 
  Along with T2 relocation, the crew has started on the commissioning of the new CQ (Crew Quarters), to be used as a permanent sleep station in Node-2 in the former T2 rack bay location (P5).      
 
  Noguchi &amp; Creamer supported T2 relocation by temporarily removing the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) plus the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) Kabin structure, then configuring the WRS-1 (Water Recovery System 1) Rack for T2 installation.  TOCA and Kabin were later replaced in their locations.    [The crew needed 2,5 hrs, longer than planned, to complete the job which required multiple rack rotations to adjust braces for proper fitting.]
 
  For the CQ installation, Creamer, Caldwell-Dyson &amp; Kotov removed the “bumpout” structure in Node-2, and Kornienko &amp; Creamer afterwards re-installed it (which required rack rotation).
 
  The TVIS treadmill has been declared Go for nominal use (which actually cleared the way for the removal &amp; relocation of T2).  Remaining task today was for Oleg Kotov to open the two TVIS circuit breakers in the SM to allow cool-down of the machine before exercise ops.    [Skvortsov &amp; Kornienko yesterday successfully completed the 4<sup>th</sup> and final part of the combined annual TVIS maintenance, by finishing the work on the stabilizers and reinstalling TVIS into the SM (Service Module) pit.  After their unmanned speed characterization test, followed by the full ACO (Activation &amp; Checkout) run, data were analyzed on the ground and found good to go.] 
 
  Several time during the day, Tracy &amp; Timothy checked up on the proper functioning of the MELFI-1 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 1) &amp; MELFI-2 as well as the ABRS (Advanced Biological Research System) via laptop displays, as stand-ins for the closed-down POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center).     [MSFC/Huntsville today has a power outage to perform preventative maintenance, corrective maintenance and system upgrades as needed.]
 
  Oleg &amp; Soichi completed part of the regular weekly task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  Alexander performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM &amp; FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.
 
  Kotov verified proper operation of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM for taking structural dynamics data during the onboard activities.  Afterwards, Oleg downlinked the measurement data to the ground.     [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control &amp; Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]
 
  Soichi performed routine service on the prime CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) unit (#1042) by replacing its battery (#1381) with a new one (#1133).
 
  Mikhail did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-3). ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-1, FE-3). 
 
  At ~9:05am EDT, the crew held their usual WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  CDR, FE-3 &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Misha at ~7:30am, Oleg at ~8:35am, TJ at ~1:20pm EDT.
 
 Reboost Update:   Yesterday’s reboost at 4:30pm EDT was nominal.  Using Progress 36P’s 8 aft DPO (Approach &amp; Attitude Control) thrusters for a burn duration of 20 min 45 sec, the maneuver achieved a delta-V of 3.07 m/s (planned: 3.0) and mean altitude increase of 5.42 km (planned: 5.38).  Awesome accuracy: a very slight over-burn resulted in ~40 m additional altitude which is within the 5% criterion for a reboost to be considered nominal.
 
 Vozdukh Update:   Vozdukh CO<sub>2</sub> removal system is up and running.  TsUP-Moscow speculated that the failure was due to a transient problem with the BVK-1 &amp; -2 vacuum valves.  Both valves were stopped by the Vozdukh control system in the intermediate position, making the system shut itself down.  After a manual reset of the BVKs and a reset of all the system parameters to the initial condition, Vozdukh was restarted without additional problems.
 
 
