
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): Routine periodic touching was performed for experiment placards deployed in various locations throughout the ISS. More information on this experiment can be found here.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF)-Cardiac: Sample cassettes were removed from the ADvanced Space Experiment Processor-1 (ADSEP-1) facility and media was exchanged. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): Air samples were collected with the grab sample container. More information on the current experiment (Cold Atom Lab) can be found here.
Global Ecosystem Dynamics Investigation (GEDI): GEDI was robotically relocated from External Facility Unit-7 (EFU-7) to EFU-6 on the JEM External Platform. Survival heater power has been applied along with thermal control coolant supply. More information on the current experiment (GEDI) can be found here.
Genomic Enumeration of Antibiotic Resistance in Space (GEARS): A Media Plate kit was inserted into the Minus Eight-degree Freezer for ISS-1 (MELFI-1). More information on the current experiment (GEARS) can be found here.
Human Brain Organoid Models for Neurodegenerative Disease & Drug Discovery (HBOND): Sample Habitats were placed into the KEyence Research Microscope Testbed (KERMIT) and the crew performed Microscopy operations. More information on this experiment can be found here
NanoRacks Modules-89 and 105: Module-89 and Module-105 were removed from the NanoRacks mainframe Alpha facility. Module-105 was inserted into Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator-5 (MERLIN-5) for refrigeration. More information about Modules-89 and 105 can be found here and here. 
Space Test Program-Houston 9-Neutron Radiation Detection Instrument (STP-H9): The STP-H9 has completed its mission objectives and the hardware was robotically removed from EFU-12 and relocated to EFU-7. STP-H9 will remain in this location on heater power only until it is disposed of in 2025. STP-H9 tests a device using two technologies to detect both gamma ray and neutron radiation. These technologies are designed to provide a smaller, lighter, and lower power alternative to current neutron detection sensors.
TangoLab-3 Mission-37/Higher Orbits Multi Experiment Module #5 (HIOR-EDU05) and Quest Multi Experiment Module #7 (QUST-NNL07): Cubes HIOR-EDU05 and QUST-NNL07 were removed from the TangoLab-3 facility and stowed for SpX-30 return. More information on these experiments (HIOR-EDU05 and QUST-NNL07) can be found here and here.
Systems:
Cargo Dragon Mid/Center Cargo Closeout: Today, the crew continued preparing and transferring cargo from ISS to the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle. The crew began to close out the center of the middle tier of the Cargo Dragon Vehicle. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until April 26th before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground. 
Crew Dragon Suit Checkout: The Endeavour Crew performed a checkout of their Crew Dragon suits to confirm suit fit and operability prior to the upcoming Crew-8 Dragon port relocation. The crew first donned their suits, opened, closed, and re-opened their helmet visors, and checked all zippers. Following this suit check, the crew doffed their suits and checked earpieces using the Crew Dragon Endeavour audio. Finally, the crew visually inspected their suits for any foreign object debris (FOD) or damage.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Surface Sampler Kit (SSK) Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Analysis: Today the crew visually analyzed media slides and Petri dishes after incubation and sorted for return. These samples will give medical personnel a gauge of microbial growth in the air and on surfaces of ISS. The EHS monitors the atmosphere for gaseous contaminants from nonmetallic materials off-gassing, combustion products, propellants, microbial contaminants from crewmembers and Station activities, water quality, acoustics, and radiation levels.
