
59 Progress (59P) Status: 59P launched from Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan at 2:09 AM CDT and achieved orbital insertion. Shortly after the third stage separation, the ground experienced partial loss of communication with the vehicle. Mission Control Center (MCC)-Moscow attempts to re-gain communication with the vehicle over subsequent ground passes were unsuccessful. The next troubleshooting opportunity will be during the next ground pass at approximately 8:00 PM CDT. 
Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF):  Cristoforetti set up the Ryutai rack for the next Soret Facet experiment by removing a Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) cable and reconfigured a Thermo Module converter cable on the Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF).  This is the first of three on board cable reconfigurations with checkouts performed by the ground this week prior to the Soret Facet cell2 experiment planned for May 12.  The Soret effect in fluids is a thermodynamic phenomenon in which different particles respond in different ways to varying temperatures. The effect, studied by the Swiss chemist Charles Soret, has been difficult to examine in detail on Earth because of gravity. The Study on Soret effect (thermal diffusion process) for the mixed solution by the in-situ observation technique facilitated at SCOF (Soret-Facet) is the first investigation to verify Soret conditions in steady and changing conditions, and to compare the Soret effect in microgravity with results on the ground, an important measurement for calibrating future investigations.
TripleLux-A:  Cristoforetti removed the Biolab reference Experiment Containers (EC) from the centrifuge Rotor L and installed the Triplelux EC’s and the Triplelux dummy mass for the EC characterization in preparation for the first Triplelux-A experiment run.  Long-term space missions present a number of risks for astronauts. Some effects of the space environment level appear to act at the cellular level and it is important to understand the underlying mechanisms of these effects. This project uses a rat macrophage cell line to focus on two aspects of cellular function which may have medical importance: i) The synergy between the effects of the space radiation environment and microgravity on cellular function and, ii) The impairment of immune functions under spaceflight conditions.
Drain Brain:  Cristoforetti set up the Human Research Facility (HRF) Pulmonary Function System (PFS) and initiated hardware warmup in support of her final (Flight Day 161) Drain Brain Plethysmography measurement.  The crew verifies the Ultrasound 2 and Video Power Converter configuration, sets up a video camera and performs ultrasound scans with guidance from the Drain Brain ground team.  On Earth, blood flows down from a person’s brain back toward the heart thanks in part to gravity, but very little is known about how this flow happens without gravity’s effects.  Many crewmembers report headaches and other neurological symptoms in space which may be related to the absence of gravity acting on blood flowing through the veins. Drain Brain uses a special neck collar to measure blood flow from the brain, to help researchers understand which physical processes in the body can compensate for the lack of gravity to ensure blood flows properly.
Robotic refueling Mission-Phase 2 (RRM-2):  Cristoforetti completed a JEM Airlock depress and venting in preparation for Thursday’s planned operations to deploy the RRM-2 task boards using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS).  The objective of RRM-P2 operations is to demonstrate servicing capabilities. These new technologies, tools and techniques could eventually give satellite owners resources to diagnose problems on orbit, fix anomalies, and keep certain spacecraft instruments performing longer in space.
Rodent Research-2 Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (RR-2 CASIS): Yesterday during the Bone Densitometer calibration procedure the team received errors. Earlier today Virts, with ground specialist assistance, completed troubleshooting which allowed the Bone Densitometer calibration to be completed successfully.  The second session of Rodents processing is planned for tomorrow.

Water Recovery System (WRS) Distillation Assembly (DA) Remove & Replace (R&R):  Earlier this morning Kelly R&Rd the WRS DA. This was required due an increase in compressor temperatures and a decrease in the production rate. The UPA has been repowered and is currently in a process cycle.
SpaceX(SpX)-6 Cargo Transfer:  Virts and Kelly were scheduled to continue with SpX-6 cargo operations today.  Today the crew started loading the DRAGON with return items.  At the completion of today’s operations transfer specialist are reporting that the crew is 60% complete with required cargo transfer. 

