
Pre-Determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM): Last night at 8:00 PM CDT the Flight Control Team was notified of a high concern, late notice conjunction. A PDAM was performed today at 12:35 AM CDT using 58P thrusters. Burn duration was 2 minutes, 20 seconds with a Delta-V of 0.3 meters/second. 
Ocular Health: Padalka and Kornienko, with Virts as their Crew Medical Officer (CMO), performed ocular and cardiac echo ultrasound measurements as part of the Ocular Health medical evaluation.  The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement.  Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Rodent Research-2 Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (RR-2 CASIS): Kelly cleaned the Animal Access Unit following Tuesday’s sample collections.  Disposable items were removed and bagged and consumable items were replaced with spares.
Cold Stowage Operations: Virts completed a nominal maintenance activity of desiccant swap on the Polar-2 cooler located in EXpedite PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 8.  He then stowed the Ice Bricks brought up by SpX-6 currently in the Double Cold Bags.
Robotics Operations: In preparation for next week’s Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) transfer operations, today Robotics ground controllers translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Work Site (WS)-4 to WS7.
Dragon Cargo Operations: The USOS crew spent a large portion of their day transferring cargo from the Dragon vehicle. Cargo operations were reported to be approximately 25% complete at the end of yesterday’s crew day.

