
59 Progress (59P) Launch/Dock: 59P is scheduled to launch tomorrow from Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan at 2:09 AM CDT. Docking to the ISS Docking Compartment (DC)-1 is scheduled to occur tomorrow at 8:07 AM CDT.
Rodent Research-2 Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (RR-2 CASIS): Virts and Kelly configured the Bone Densitometer and Microgravity Sciences Glovebox (MSG) in preparation for tomorrow’s RR-2 sample collection, however during the Bone Densitometer calibration procedure the team received several errors.  The team is currently performing troubleshooting steps in an attempt to complete the Bone Densitometer calibration. 
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint): Kelly, with Cristoforetti’s assistance, collected data for his Flight Day (FD) 30 ultrasound Sprint Session.  Kelly placed reference marks on his right calf and thigh for ultrasound scans.  Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in International Space Station (ISS) crewmembers during long-duration missions. Ultrasound scans are on FD 14, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and R-7 for mission duration of six months and are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume.
Study of the Impact of Long-Term Space Travel on the Astronauts’ Microbiome (Microbiome): Cristoforetti performed her Return-14 (R-14) Microbiome session.  She collected body swab samples and inserted into MELFI.  Later today, she will collect perspiration samples following her exercise session. The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome.
Ocular Health (OH): Kelly continued his FD30 OH activities. With assistance from Virts and Cristoforetti, respectively, he performed ocular ultrasound and a cardiac echo ultrasound.  The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement.  The purpose of this study is to collect evidence to characterize the risk and define the visual changes, vascular changes, and central nervous system (CNS) changes, including intracranial pressure, observed during long-duration exposure to microgravity, including postflight time course for recovery to baseline. This study gathers information that can be used to assess the risk of Microgravity-Induced Visual Impairment/Intracranial Pressure (VIIP) and guide future research needs.
Japanese Experiment Module Air Lock (JEMAL) Slide Table (ST) Troubleshooting: When the JEMAL ST is retracted in auto mode, there is a grinding noise at the end of the motion. Foreign Object Debris (FOD) has been  eliminated as a possible cause. Virts performed troubleshooting steps to ascertain the source of the noise in preparation for Robotic Refueling Mission (RRM) activities this Thursday which utilize the ST. Results were that the noise is still audible but is no worse than before, therefore, the Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) is go for RRM operations.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Pressure Fault: Yesterday, the UPA faulted due to high condensor pressure. Ground controller attempts to restart the UPA were unsuccessful.  Teams are standing down from running UPA pending troubleshooting and forward plans.
Russian Chibis Suit Smoke Event: This morning while performing their Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP training in the Chibis suit, the Russian crew reported smelling a burning odor and saw a small puff of smoke when they powered on the suit.  The suit was unpowered and Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) readings were taken which showed nominal for ISS atmosphere. Moscow believes the odor and smoke were due to a failed micropump are investigating the issue. 

