
Genes in Space: The crew completed the second of four planned sessions of the Genes in Space experiment by retrieving the miniPCR sample tubes from the Glacier and processing the samples in the miniPCR.  Data will be transferred to a Space Station Computer (SSC) for downlink to the ground. The Genes in Space investigation is a winning student-designed experiment to test whether the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) can be used to study deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) alterations aboard the ISS.  Spaceflight causes many changes to the human body, including alterations in DNA and a weakened immune system. Understanding whether these two processes are linked is important for safeguarding crew health, but DNA technology that can track these changes is relatively untested in space.
Energy: The crew set up the Pulmonary Function System (PFS) hardware and the Armband Activity Monitor to support the European Space Agency (ESA) Energy experiment. The PFS will be used to conduct 4 metabolic measurement sessions and the Armband Activity Monitor will be used during the 10-day experiment run to monitor activities and assess energy expenditures. The investigation assesses energy requirements of astronauts on long-duration missions. This is important for future planning of longer-duration missions to the Moon and Mars. 
JAXA Small Satellite Orbital Deployer MICROSAT (JSSOD-M1) Installation: In preparation for upcoming JSSOD-M1 deployment currently planned for April 27, the crew installed the JSSOD-M1 onto Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) and the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (AL) slide table.  The slide table was then retracted and the inner hatch closed, making the airlock ready for deployment activities.  J-SSOD provides a safe, small satellite launching capability to the ISS as well as containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites.
MAGVECTOR: Crewmembers configured the portable power supply and connected the universal serial bus (USB) jump drive to the MAGVECTOR in preparation for automatic data transfer that began immediately after activation. MAGVECTOR investigates how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research not only helps improve future ISS experiments and electrical experiments, but it could offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general, the backbone of our technology. 
Sprint Portable Pulmonary Function System (PFS) Setup: In preparation for tomorrow’s Sprint VO2 operations, the crew set up the Portable PFS power, data, front panel, and gas connections and configured the Portable PFS Mixing Bag System (MBS).  Sprint VO2 is a test that measures oxygen uptake, ventilatory threshold, and other physiological parameters for evaluation of Sprint exercise prescription. It evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crew members during long-duration missions. 
Fluid Shifts: Fluid Shifts operations continue today with the crew conducting body sample collections and stowing the samples in the Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  Fluid Shifts measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures. 
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Air Selector Valve (ASV) 104 Remove & Replace (R&R): From January 21 to February 4, 2016, the Lab CDRA valve 104 failed to reach its commanded position on numerous occasions. Data indicates that the valve stalled in the intermediate position and repeatedly had slow transition times as well as frequent position dropouts resulting in CDRA shutdowns. Today the crew R&Rd the valve with one of two spares available on orbit and ground teams successfully commanded to the valve. The CDRA has been activated for a 24-hour checkout period. 
Robotics Operations: Yesterday Robotics ground controllers successfully performed a FMS (Force Moment Sensor) characterization on LEE B, then picked up the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to prepare for the HTV-6 battery get-ahead tasks to break torque and retorque bolts on S4 batteries that are planned for replacement with Lithium Ion batteries.  When ORU Tool Changeout Mechanism 1 (OTCM #1) attempted to grasp the Robotic Offset Tool (ROST) to set up for the get-aheads, the OTCM stopped short of the expected gripper close range and was not able to perform the grasp.  A second attempt was unsuccessful.  The remainder of robotic operations for the day were postponed. Teams are meeting to discuss the anomaly and a forward plan.
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) O2 Repress: Today the first O2 repress of the ISS cabin atmosphere was performed using O2 from the NORS tank. When the NORS tank is empty, it will be returned to ground for reflight.

