
Orbital 7 (OA-7) Capture/Berthing: Friday night, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to inspect the Node 1 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ABCM). They then maneuvered the SSRMS to the Cygnus high hover position and powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) in “Hot Backup” mode in preparation for Saturday morning’s Cygnus capture. 
On Saturday, Pesquet and Whitson monitored the Cygnus approach from the Cupola Robotic Workstation and with Pesquet at the controls, Cygnus was captured nominally. Ground Controllers then maneuvered Cygnus into position to support an inspection of its Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) then maneuvered and installed it to the Node 1 Nadir Active CBM. The Cygnus hatch was subsequently opened and cargo transfer was initiated.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections (Marrow):  A 50S crewmember performed the Flight Day 15 (FD15) blood and air sample collections in support of the Marrow experiment.  A blood sample was collected, processed in the centrifuge and placed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  A breath sample and ambient air sample were also collected and stowed for return on a later flight. The Marrow investigation looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow. 
NanoRacks Microscope-3 Instrument Operations:  The crew performed NanoRacks Microscope-3 assembly and checkout for both microscopes.  NanoRacks Microscope-3 will be used for viewing and capturing digital microscope photos of various science specimens.
Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of the 50S crew, all 5 crewmembers reviewed priorities during emergency response to ensure safety of the crew and safe configuration of the ISS. To meet these priorities the crew covered crew accountability, readiness of the Soyuz escape vehicle and communication and coordination among themselves as well as with ground teams during an emergency event.
Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Status: On Sunday, the crew reported a grinding noise in the CEVIS and were directed to stand down on CEVIS use. Ground teams met and decided that the crew can continue CEVIS use wearing hearing protection and will schedule an Ergometer Remove & Replace (R&R). 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status: On Sunday, UPA experienced a Distillation Assembly Belt Slippage Fault and was moded to shut down. The same fault was experienced last Thursday. Ground teams met and recommends restarting the UPA which is in work.

