
SpX-17 Launch Status:  SpX-17 is now scheduled to launch on Wednesday, May 1 with capture/berthing on Saturday, May 4.
Rodent Research-12 (RR-12): The crew restocked all four Rodent Habitats by adding new food bars, and cleaning the interior lid and camera lenses. The access unit was also cleaned. Rodent Research-12, Tetanus Antibody Response by B cells in Space (TARBIS), examines the effects of spaceflight on the function of antibody production and immune memory. Spaceflight is known to have a dramatic influence on immune response, but there is little research on its effect following an actual challenge to the body’s immune system. Using a mouse model makes this possible, as the mouse immune system closely parallels that of humans.
Astrobee: The crew removed and deactivated the Astrobee Docking Station. Astrobee is a series of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. The robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the ISS. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Fluid Shifts: Crewmembers continued Fluid Shifts ultrasound operations, Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Distortion-product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE) and Ocular Structure (OCT) measurements. The purpose of this study is to characterize fluid distribution and compartmentalization associated with long-duration space flight, and to correlate these findings with vision changes and other elements of the SANS syndrome. 
Emergency Response On-Board Training (OBT): All crewmembers participated in today’s simulator drill to practice emergency response with ground controllers using information provided by simulator displays. Over the course of several sessions, the crew practiced the following:

Physically translating through ISS to the appropriate response locations to visualize the use of station emergency response equipment and interfaces.
Procedure execution, and the associated decision making, based on cues provided by simulator.
Communication and coordination with MCC-H and MCC-M as required for a given emergency scenario.

Following the drill, the crew completed a conference with ground teams to discuss results of the OBT.
Commercial Orbital Transport Services (COTS) UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Checkout:  In preparation for the upcoming arrival of SpaceX-17 planned on May 4, the crew coordinated with ground teams to activate the CUCU system and perform a Crew Command Panel (CCP) checkout. CUCU provides a command and telemetry communications link between ISS and Dragon during free flight operations near ISS.    
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion (CSA-CP) Checkout: The crew completed this routine maintenance today by replacing batteries in the CSA-CP units and updating internal clock settings. The CSA-CPs are used by the crew to detect evidence of fire and/or hazardous environment.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Live Event:  Saint-Jacques participated in a live PAO event with approximately 800 grade 7-9 students from Prince Edward Island featuring the Exploring Earth initiative which showcases photos of our planet taken by David from space. During the event, students discussed some of the things they have learned about our planet using David’s pictures and about our impact on the environment and the importance of protecting our planet.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) video system for Materials ISS Experiment (MISSE) transfer operations day 4. They maneuvered the MSS from the Park position to MISSE Sample Carriers (MSC) transfer position. Then, they commanded the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm2 to extract the MSC17 from MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT) slot T5 and to insert it in the Flight Facility (FF) W3 slot. The operations are progressing with the MSS maneuver in preparation for the MT translation from Worksite (WS)2 to WS7 and the stowing of MTT onto Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock. The MSS will be parked and powered down.

