ISS On-Orbit Status 04/23/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
 FE-1 Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the currently running Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [CDR again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 After breakfast, CDR Kotov concluded his second session of the standard 24-hour ECG (electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2 protocol.    [After the ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system, Oleg doffed the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads over the past 24 hours, recording data on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results were then downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data were downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]
 
 It was Sasha Skvortsov’s turn today to conduct the 1h15m session of the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, his first, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment, supported by ground specialist tagup, was then closed out and the test data downlinked via OCA.      [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]
 
 In Node-3, FE-6 Creamer removed the WDS (Water Delivery System) of the OGS (Oxygen Generator System) and stowed it in the Kibo JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment).
 
 Also in Node-3, TJ &amp; FE-5 Noguchi worked on the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly), re-installing and checking out the UPA T-valve.     [The failed retaining ring of the valve was replaced on 19A (4/15) by Caldwell-Dyson &amp; Creamer with a new one.  Today’s task finished the job by demating the pretreated urine supply line (from the WHC/Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) at the WRS2 RIP (Water Recovery System 2 Rack Interface Panel) and instead re-mating the valve to the RIP.  The original retaining ring had failed because it was a right-handed coil that allowed for the ring to be “screwed off” when turning the handle counter-clockwise. The new retaining ring is left-handed coil to avoid this problem.]
 
 FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson powered up the hardware for the SDRM (SpaceDRUMS/Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix) experiment, turning it off again several hours later, after data downlink.    [SpaceDRUMS suspends a solid or liquid sample using 20 acoustic beam emitters during combustion or heat-based synthesis.  Materials can be produced in microgravity with an unparalleled quality of shape and composition.  SpaceDRUMS will support scientific understanding of processes like combustion synthesis and self-propagating high temperature synthesis and also provide direct commercial benefits from materials processing.  Advanced ceramics, polymer, and colloids can be processed in SpaceDRUMS.]
 
 In the Lab, FE-5 Noguchi disconnected the Lab RWS DCP (Robotic Workstation Display &amp; Control Panel) cable, to preserve the DCP monitor’s life.
 
 Afterwards, Soichi &amp; Tracy spent 2 hrs on the long-planned relocation of the Cupola RWS from the Lab (loc. S5) to its designated place in the Cupola (loc. 2/3).     [During the installation, care was taken to provide enough cable slack to allow repositioning the RWS forward &amp; starboard without cable dematings.  With the RWS CRA (Crew Restraint Assembly) subsequently installed by Caldwell-Dyson, Noguchi then had additional time scheduled for powering up the RWS, configuring its laptop and performing an RWS checkout.  At the end, the systems were turned off again.]
 
 TJ later relabeled the Cupola UOPs (Utility Outlet Panels), intended to correct wrong labels on both UOPs at the J3 &amp; J4 ports after the recent (19A) installation oif Cupola corner panels &amp; curtain panels.
 
 Oleg &amp; Sasha completed the periodic (monthly) functional closure test of the Vozdukh CO<sub>2</sub> (carbon dioxide) removal system’s spare AVK emergency vacuum valves, in the spare parts kit.    [The AVKs are crucial because they close the Vozdukh's vacuum access lines in the event of a malfunction in the regular vacuum valves (BVK) or a depressurization in the Vozdukh valve panel (BOA).  Access to vacuum is required to vent CO<sub>2</sub> during the regeneration of the absorbent cartridges (PP).  (See Vozdukh note, below).]
 
 After the RS (Russian Segment)’s successful upgrade of the TsVM Central Computer &amp; TVM Terminal Computer to SM software Vers. 08.04, CDR Kotov today also upgraded the KTsP1 RS1 (Central Post Computer 1 Laptop 1) and KTsP2 RS2 to BVS software Vers. 08.04 (first the “images”/file structures, then the software load) and checked out the machines afterwards.
 
 As is standard for some new Expeditions, Skvortsov &amp; Kornienko performed the periodic 3-hr. routine maintenance job on the RS’s STTS telephone/telegraph subsystem, including its audio paths and intercom stations.  As part of this semi-annual activity, Sasha &amp; Misha also tested VHF receivers, conducted an inventory audit of installed &amp; stowed comm cap headsets (GNSh-K23, GBSh-K3), cables with push-to-talk units (PTT) and the 10-meter HECs (headset extension cables).  Afterwards they returned the STTS to its nominal config for report to TsUP/Moscow.    [The "Voskhod-M" STTS enables telephone communications between the SM, FGB, Docking Compartment (DC-1), MRM2 and U.S. segment (USOS), and also with users on the ground over VHF channels selected by an operator at an SM comm panel, via STTS antennas on the SM’s outside.  There are six comm panels in the SM with pushbuttons for accessing any of three audio channels, plus an intercom channel.  Other modes of the STTS include telegraphy (teletype), EVA voice, emergency alarms, Packet/Email, and TORU docking support.  Last time done: 10/20/09 by Suraev &amp; Romanenko.]
 
 With the video camcorder set up again in the SM (Service Module) for monitoring subsequent activities, Kotov, Kornienko &amp; Skvortsov spent much of their workday on Part 4 of the extensive TVIS treadmill IFM (Inflight Maintenance), finishing up maintenance to restore the exercise machine to full service.  After the IFM, Misha removed the video setup and its hatch-dragthrough cable.     [The current combined (annual + monthly + weekly) TVIS maintenance tasks involved: Inspect belt slats, weld nuts, and blue rollers; tension the tread belt; replace the forward right stabilizer; change out springs in the forward left, aft right and aft left stabilizers; install flywheel case, lubricate the transfer case; inspect gyro wire ropes and pivot spacer movement; inspect/replace corner components; perform monthly/quarterly inspections and cleaning; perform an acoustic survey &amp; speed characterization; perform ACO (Activation &amp; Checkout).  Today’s work steps consisted of reinstalling the aft right stabilizer, inspecting gyroscope wire ropes and clamp rope assemblies, vacuuming screens, checking cables, replacing and inspect blue bumpers on the TVIS isolator cage, installing the treadmill in the SM pit, and installing new IRBAs (Isolation Restorative Bungee Assemblies).   Background: The four TVIS stabilizers each contain a linear motor which moves a mass-spring system to provide an equal and opposite force to footfall forces; this serves to stabilize Z-axis &amp; pitch motion of the treadmill to minimize the transmission of loads to the station.  The springs have a limited life-time and can fail due to fatigue.]
 
 FE-6 Creamer serviced the ABRS (Advanced Biological Research System) in the Lab, pausing both ERCs (Environment Research Chambers) from the ELC (Experiment Laptop Computer) and removing the ERC2’s root tray in order to access the chamber’s inner walls and backside for wiping up excess moisture.  Initial configuration was then restored.     [Excessive moisture in the ABRS ERC2 had the ABRS humidity control system struggling to meet the humidity set point.] 
 
 In the US Airlock, Creamer terminated the regeneration of METOX (Metal Oxide) CO<sub>2</sub> absorber canisters #0020 &amp; #0022, initiated yesterday by him in the bake-out oven.
 
 Kotov turned on the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM for taking structural dynamics data and later checked to verify proper function.     [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control &amp; Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]
 
 The crew assembled for a joint review of the upcoming major job of relocating the T2/COLBERT treadmill from Node-2 to its final location in Node-3 and the subsequent setting up &amp; outfitting of the new 19A-delivered CQ (Crew Quarters) in its Node-2 place.  The time-critical activity will be spread over three days, starting tomorrow.     [Currently, the 6 crewmembers have only 5 permanent sleep stations: 2 Kayutas in the SM, 2 CQs in Node-2 &amp; 1 CQ in Kibo JPM.  A temporary sleep station is in JLP, with JAXA’s agreement due to expire on 5/1.  To gain some extra time in case of delays, the relocation activity must begin tomorrow (Saturday), leaving only one more weekend before 37P arrival/docking.  T2 relocation includes teardown, transfer, installation, VIS (Vibration Isolation System) installation, VIS photography for ground review. Caldwell-Dyson ACO (Activation &amp; Checkout), ground review of ACO data, and Noguchi/Creamer ACOs.]
 
 FE-1 did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 Soichi &amp; TJ filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
 For his exercise session on the T2 treadmill, Timothy again donned the Glenn treadmill harness with installed transducer instrumentation (second time for him), then activated the harness.     [Afterwards, FE-6 downloaded the harness data (including achieved “body weight”) and filled out a survey questionnaire to complete the SDTO (Station Development Test Objective).  With today’s session, TJ made up for a missed session due to 19A docking.  Pre-Increment plan was to have TJ, Tracy &amp; Soichi each conduct 4 Harness SDTO sessions on both harnesses (T2 &amp; TVIS), Schedule permitting, after tomorrow, the three will have 4 sessions each remaining.]
 
 The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-1, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-1, FE-3).   
 
 At ~4:10am EDT, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
 At ~1:05pm, Timothy Creamer linked up with MCC-Houston stowage specialists via S-band to discuss IMS (Inventory Management System) inventory &amp; stowage issues.
 
 At ~3:00pm, the ISS crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H via S-band/audio.    [S/G-2 (Space-to-Ground 2) phone patch via SSC (Station Support Computer).]
 
 At ~4:05pm, all crewmembers will convene for their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office (Steve Lindsey), via S-band S/G-2 audio &amp; phone patch.
 
 WRM Update:   A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.     [The updated card (23-0003E), reflecting 19A deliveries, lists 104 CWCs (2,661.8 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (24 CWCs with 988.8 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 467.5 L in 12 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 387.1 L in 9 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 2 bags with 66.0 L require sample analysis, 4 bags with 170.8 L are to be used with microbial filter &amp; 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (62 CWCs with 1,138.2 L),  4. condensate water (7 bags with 141.8 L and 4 CWCs with 73.0 L that are to be used with microbial filter, and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 26.3 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 Reboost:   A one-burn reboost of ISS is scheduled tonight for 4:30pm EDT using Progress 36P propulsion, viz. 8 aft DPO (Approach &amp; Attitude Control) thrusters.  Planned burn duration: 20 min 45 sec; delta-V: 3.0 m/s.  ISS attitude control authority will be handed over to RS MCS (Motion Control System) at 3:00pm and returned to US MM (Momentum management) at 5:40pm.
 
 Vozdukh Failure:   The Vozdukh CO<sub>2</sub> removal system is currently down, having failed four times this week.  Indications seem to point to a sticky valve, most likely the BVK1 vacuum valve.  This has happened before, and Vozdukh is usually quickly recovered.  Current CO<sub>2</sub> levels are good. 
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Bangui, Central African Republic (some light popcorn clouds may have been present over this central African capital city.  Looking to the left of track for Bangui. The city is located along the northern banks of the Ubangi River.  General context imagery of the city and its immediate surroundings was requested), Kerguelen Island, S. Indian Ocean (a clear weather slot near Kerguelen was expected to be present at the time of ISS’ approach.  Looking to the left of track for the island as the station passed over the southern Indian Ocean.  Overlapping west to east mapping frames of the entire island were requested to track the extent of glacial ice and snow cover), and Panama City, Panama (looking to the right of track for this Central American capital.  The city is located near the Pacific side of the Panama Canal; the built materials of the urban area contrast sharply with surrounding vegetated areas.  General context imagery of the city and its surroundings was requested).
 
 
