
Live Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event from ISS: Following today’s swearing-in of NASA Administrator Bridenstine, the US crew spoke with US Vice President Pence and Bridenstine about their experiences on the ISS and their time at NASA. Bridenstine was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on Thursday, April 19, to serve as the agency’s 13th administrator. Prior to this position, he served in the U.S. House of Representatives for the state of Oklahoma, where he held positions on the House Armed Services Committee and the Science, Space and Technology Committee. Bridenstine also is a pilot in the U.S. Navy Reserve and the former executive director of the Tulsa Air and Space Museum and Planetarium. 
Multi-Use Variable-G Platform (MVP): The crew inserted food cylinders in the food chambers in each Drosophila module in the MVP today. They collected solid and liquid samples, fixated them and inserted them into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). MVP is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others. It includes 2 internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity. Each carousel hosts 6 separate removable experiment modules on each carousel. Video and still imagery, including microscopy, can be included. The platform provides temperature and humidity controls and monitors and records oxygen and carbon dioxide levels. 
Mouse Stress Defense: The crew replaced waste collecting equipment and odor filters in the Mouse Habitat Cage Units today. Microgravity provokes cellular mechanical stresses and perturbs cellular signaling, leading to reduction of muscle and bone density. To overcome these stresses, one of the promising strategies is to activate Nrf2, a master regulator of antioxidant pathway. Mouse Stress Defense investigates how Nrf2 contributes to effective prevention of space-originated stresses. 
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Maintenance: There has been an increased ionic breakthrough on both WPA Multi-Filtration (MF) beds identified by a steep increase in the conductivity of the bed’s effluent. The beds were previously sampled to determine the species that is saturating the bed. Those samples, however, were inconclusive and it is believed the bicarbonate converted to carbon dioxide (CO2) and permeated through the sample bags. Today the crew collected new samples of the effluent from MF Beds 1 and 2 using ITCS sample bags that will not allow for CO2 permeation. These samples will be returned for analysis. The crew also replaced the WPA Separator Filter located on the Mostly Liquid Separator (MLS) and replaced a Waste Water Filter.
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) Remove and Replace (R&R): The N21B4B_B Remote Power Controller (RPC) 16 tripped on April 12, 2017 removing power from the Node 2 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) System Flow Control Assembly (SFCA) valve. Today, the crew, with ground team support, performed a power down, R&R, and successful checkout of RPC 16 and the Node 2 MTL SFCA. 
Dragon Cargo Status: Over the weekend, the crew performed 6 hours of cargo ops, completing message #3. ISO estimates 14h 30m of cargo operations remain to complete Dragon loading prior to vehicle unberths on May 2. 
Camcorder Deploy:  Today the crew unpacked, configured and deployed five new camcorders that were delivered on SpaceX-14. These new camcorders will replace old camcorders that were stowed in a trash location for later disposal. 

