All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 FE-1 Barratt continued his first week-long session of sleep logging for the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight) from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session. This is similar to Barratt’s BCD (Baseline Data Collection) which was performed pre-flight for comparison.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, Dr. Mike wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as his patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and uses the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.] 
 The FE-1 relabeled five CWCs (Contingency Water Containers), downgrading them from Potable to either Technical Water or Special Fluids. These bags are expired or are contaminated and cannot be used for potable water. [CWC 1004, 1081, 1039, 1079 were relabeled from Potable (Blue) to Technical (Green), and CWC 1080 from Potable to Special Fluids (Orange). The latter was further specified as containing “Disinfectant Flush" from last year.]  
 After a familiarization review and subsequent teleconference with the PI (Principal Investigator), Mike Barratt activated the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) from its A31p laptop initiated and conducted a session, the first of Increment 19, with the experiment SPICE (Smoke Point In Co-flow Experiment), performed in the MSG and controlled by its A31p with SPICE microdrives. At close-down, videotape and microdrive were exchanged and the MSG powered down.    [Mike exchanged burner tubes, set up the still camera, exchanged the gas bottle with new fuel (75% Propylene), performed ignition to start the flame test, adjusted to the smoke point and took photos.  SPICE determines the point at which gas-jet flames (similar to a butane-lighter flame) begin to emit soot (dark carbonaceous particulate formed inside the flame) in microgravity.  Objective is to improve the durability and performance of power and propulsion systems. Studying a soot-emitting flame is important in understanding the ability of fires to spread and in control of soot in practical combustion systems in space. Over 180 test points were successfully completed during Increment 18.] 
 In the JAXA Kibo JPM (Japanese Pressurized Module), Barratt took photographs of the structural situation in the JPM1F2 &amp; JPM1F3 rack bay areas behind soft dummy panels to aid in constructing the Temporary Crew Quarters of the Canadian crewmember Robert Thirsk, due on Soyuz 19S. 
 In the DC1 (Docking Compartment), CDR Padalka terminated the maintenance discharge of the first Orlan-MK 8253 battery pack and removed the pack from the ZU-S discharge/recharge unit. 
 In the JPM, FE-2 Wakata performed more troubleshooting-related work on the MLT (Microgravity Measurement Apparatus Laptop Terminal), changing the cable routing between the MLT and the ELT (Experiment Laptop Terminal), since SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center) wants to use the latter instead of the former for microgravity disturbance data measurements starting with Week 6. [After the swap, SSIPC was to perform some MMA (Microgravity Measurement Apparatus) measurements as a test.] 
 Koichi Wakata conducted the final hot water flushing activity on the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser). [The final flush was intended to remove any iron that may have leached out of the tubing and any iodine remaining in the ambient-temperature line from the STS-119 injection. Pending a final review by the IMMT (ISS Mission Management Team) of microbial counts in the water samples analyzed, the Go can then be given for the crew to drink the water.] 
 In Kibo, the FE-2 also prepared his camera equipment at window JPM1F8 for the JAXA EPO (Educational Program Operation) PHOTO-MOON, then took images of the moon, visible at that window from 8:32am EDT, for ~10 minutes. [The purpose of the MOON EPO is to create a musical score using moon photos taken from Kibo while the crewmember is floating naturally in micro-G. The position of the moon in the photos is regarded as the sound pitch (quarter note, eighth note, etc.), e.g., when the moon is at the top of the picture, it is a high pitch. The project will emphasize the difference between the photo (and score) taken from the Earth and taken from Kibo. Photos taken with the 400 mm lens use the moon craters to create the musical score. Crater size determines sound length. At least 80 photos are necessary each with the 200mm and 400mm lens.]  Wakata used the MAS (Microbial Air Sampler) kit to obtain the periodic microbiology air samples from specific sampling locations including from Kibo JPM mid-module, and the SSK (Surface Sample Kit) to collect/incubate microbiology samples. [After a 5-day incubation period, the air &amp; surface samples will be subjected to visual analysis &amp; data recording with the surface slides and Petri dishes of the MAS &amp; SSK.] 
 The CDR meanwhile collected the periodic readings of potentially harmful atmospheric contaminants in the SM (Service Module), using the CMS (Countermeasure System), a component of the SKDS GANK-4M Real-Time Harmful Contaminant Gas Analyzer suite, today using preprogrammed microchips to measure for Ammonia (NH3) and Carbon Monoxide (CO). 
 Most of Padalka’s schedule today was reserved for working on loading the Progress 32P cargo ship with excessed equipment and trash, to burn up in the atmosphere on 5/6.. 
 Gennady transferred two CWCs (Contingency Water Containers, #1043 &amp; #1065) with US condensate to the RS (Russian Segment) for the periodic (about twice a month) replenishing of the Elektron’s water supply for electrolysis, filling the designated KOV EDV container.  Once filled, the EDV was connected to the BPK transfer pump for processing through the BKO.     [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.] 
 Mike Barratt conducted the periodic status check on the payloads CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5) and ENose (Electronic Nose), both located in the ER-2 (EXPRESS Rack 2). 
 The CDR performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.] 
 Later, Gennady also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). 
 Dr. Mike supported ground payload operations by turning on the power switch in the ER6 (EXPRESS Rack 6) AGCAM locker 4 for ER6 and AGCAM (Agricultural Camera) ops. 
 Afterwards, the FE-1 relocated the video MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and its DC power supply in the JPM from starboard (loc. D1) to the EPS2 (Electrical Power System 2) Rack (loc. D5). 
 At 11:40am EDT, Koichi Wakata conducted the periodic VHF-1 emergency communications proficiency check over NASA’s VHF (Very High Frequency) stations, today at the Dryden (11:42:50am-11:50:18am) and White Sands (11:45:00am-11:52:35am) VHF sites, talking with Houston/Capcom, MSFC/PAYCOM (Payload Operation &amp; Integration Center Communicator), Moscow/GLAVNI (TsUP Capcom), EUROCOM/Munich and JCOM/Tsukuba in the normal fashion via VHF radio from a handheld microphone and any of the USOS ATUs (Audio Terminal Units).    [Purpose of the test is to verify signal reception and link integrity, improve crew proficiency, and ensure minimum required link margin during emergency (no TDRS) and special events (such as a Soyuz relocation).] 
 At ~12:30pm, Barratt closed the protective shutters of the Lab and Kibo science windows for the Progress 32P propellant line purge scheduled at 2:28pm EDT today. [The line purge (venting to space) is one more step toward undocking on 5/6. For attitude holding during the prop purge (i.e., its reaction force), attitude control authority will be handed over to Russian MCS (Motion Control System) thrusters at 2:20pm and returned to US CMG (Control Moment Gyroscope) momentum management control at ~4:49pm.] 
 Later today, Mike will perform the regular controlled shut-down of the EHS VOA (Environmental Health System-Volatile Organic Analyzer), with the ground power-cycling its RPC-3 (Remote Power Controller 3), part of RPCM (RPC Module) LAD42B_A. 
 At ~3:00pm, Gennady is to conduct another data collection run for the MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (Interactions) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.   [The software has a mood questionnaire, a group &amp; work environment questionnaire, and a critical incidents log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]  
 At ~5:20pm, just before sleep time, Padalka will set up the Russian MBI-12 SONOKARD (Sonocard) payload and start his third experiment session, using a sports shirt from the SONOKARD kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [SONOKARD objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 The crew performed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2) and ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2) 
 Afterwards, Mike downloaded the exercise data file to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week). 
 At ~7:00am EDT, the crew supported a JAXA PAO educational event in HD TV, with the G1 camcorder and MPC, with students from university, high school, junior high and elementary schools at Ishikawa Hall in Uruma-city, Okinawa, Japan. 
 At ~12:40pm, Padalka &amp; Barratt downlinked PAO TV greetings to the participants of the 8th Russian Delphian Games and of the International Regatta Tall Ships Atlantic Challenge 2009. [The 8th Delphian Games, from 5/15-5/20 in Samara, are dedicated this year to the “Youth of Russia”, celebrated in Russia in 2009 per Presidential decree. The international trans-Atlantic expedition of the legendary training sailing ship Krusenshtern and the frigate Mir began in Kaliningrad on 4/19 and will sail from the Spanish port Vigo on 4/30.  In the course of this expedition 150 trainees and apprentices are undergoing the Sea School training and participate in the international sail boat regatta “Tall Ships Atlantic Challenge”. From ISS: “May you have a fair wind and a following sea!”] 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Nile delta, Egypt (looking right, near nadir, to document land-use change with a mapping swath from the coastline to the Suez Canal. Populations are expanding fast in northern Egypt and land-uses are changing accordingly, with urban and agricultural uses competing), Saharan dust (Dynamic event. Looking right from near track to high oblique for possible dust. The crew asked to shoot any dust-cloud margins that may have been visible. Oblique viewing enhances the imaging of dust in the atmosphere. Including any of the black Tibesti Mountain rocks in the images will assist locating any images. The basin south of the mountains [under track] is one of the largest generators of atmospheric dust on the planet), and Lake Poopo, Bolivia (ISS had the saline Lake Poopo immediately left of track and the salar [dry salt lake] floor of Salar Coipasa [where hand mining of salt is the main occupation] immediately right. Images of the water level status in both basins were requested as the present El Nino gets underway). 
 CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone). 
 
