
Axiom-1 (Ax-1) Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Undock and Landing: SpaceX Crew Dragon Endeavour undocked from the ISS on Sunday, April 24th at 8:10 PM CT to return private astronauts Michael Lopez-Alegria, Larry Connor, Mark Pathy, and Eytan Stibbe following a successful 15 day docked mission. The vehicle splashed down near Jacksonville, Florida at 12:06 PM CT.
ISS Reboost: The ISS performed a reboost using the aft Progress 79P R&D thrusters on Saturday, April 23rd at 8:25 AM CT. The reboost was originally planned as a Pre-determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM) to clear the risk posed by a conjunction with a piece of space debris; however, the ground decided to perform the maneuver regardless if the risk dropped due to its downstream benefits. This reboost optimizes the Expedition 67 reboost plan to meet several high priority objectives, including Russian visiting vehicle phasing, NG-17 reboost capability, and a nominal ISS altitude strategy. The burn duration was 10 minutes 23 seconds with a Delta-V of 1.0 m/s.
Systems:
JEM Wireless Instrumentation System (WIS) Remote Sensor Unit (RSU) B4 Sensor Corrections: The crew corrected the 600mm JEM WIS Air Flow sensor on JEM WIS RSU B4 serial number (S/N) 1001 and the 380mm sensor on JEM WIS RSU B4 S/N 1002 for nominal configuration. The JEM WIS environmental monitoring function consists of the Cabin Advanced Network Apparatus (CANA) and the JEM Cabin Access Point (J-CAP). The CANA acquires JEM cabin environmental data utilizing wireless sensors like these two RSUs. 
Station Cleaning: The crew performed housekeeping tasks in a prioritized manner to clean the USOS following Ax-1 undock and prior to Crew-4 arrival. Crew-4 is planned to launch on Wednesday, April 27th from Cape Canaveral, Florida. Once at station, Crew-4 will participate in a direct handover with the Endurance Crew to adapt to space and be familiarized with the station’s configuration. 
Nitrogen/Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Nitrogen (N2) Tank Repress Part 2 and Termination: Today, the crew configured valves in the Airlock to perform a Nitrogen repress from the installed NORS N2 tank. After the ground executed the repress, the crew returned the valves to their pre-repress configuration.

