
Kubik: The crew installed Kubik #5 and #6 in the Columbus module in support of the upcoming NanoAntioxidents experiment arriving on SpX-17. Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator or cooler with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic microgravity experiments such as those using seeds, cells, and small animals.
International Commercial Experiment Cubes (ICE Cubes): The crew installed Experiment Cubes #4 and #5 in the ICE Cube facility; Cube #0 was relocated to slot J02 of the facility. The ICE Cubes Facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration or educational objectives. 
Space Fibers: The crew installed a sample cartridge into the Space Fibers facility and the ground team initiated a science run. Manufacturing Fiber Optic Cable in Microgravity (Space Fibers) evaluates a method for producing fiber optic cable from a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium and aluminum, called ZBLAN, in space. ZBLAN produces glass one hundred times more transparent than silica-based glass, exceptional for fiber optics. Microgravity suppresses two mechanisms that commonly degrade fiber, and previous studies showed improved properties in fiber drawn in microgravity compared to that fabricated on the ground.
Life Support Rack (LSR) Status: Yesterday the LSR experienced a fast shutdown. Following a software parameter update, LSR operated as expected and was scrubbing CO2 from the ISS atmosphere. Both LAB and Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRAs) were put in stand-by mode and ppCO2 levels were within nominal parameters. Due to a false fire alarm in the Cygnus vehicle today, LSR commissioning was interrupted and the LSR is in the process of being brought back up. The LSR captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR will operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future exploration missions. 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Status: Following Monday’s T2 failure, and yesterday’s treadmill remove and replace (R&R) activity, T2 was declared GO for use after engineers reviewed the Activation and Checkout (ACO) data captured yesterday afternoon.
SpaceX (SpX)-17 Arrival Preparations: In preparation for SpX-17 launch currently planned for April 30 and berthing on May 2, the crew completed the following On-Board Training (OBT):

Dragon Rendezvous: On-board proficiency training on the Dragon mission profile, Dragon rendezvous crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding the vehicle.
Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 1: The crew practiced a 30-meter approach, two capture point hold runs, and 2-meter runs.

Node 2 (N2) Filter R&R: The crew removed existing bacteria filters in N2 and cleaned the smoke detectors. They then replaced the filters with High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) and charcoal filters that were delivered on the Cygnus vehicle. N3 filters are scheduled to be replaced next Monday.
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Live Event: Anne McClain participated in the following three live PAO events:

An interview with the Army News Service that will be used by the U.S. Army PAO to highlight McClain’s achievements on National Astronaut Day.
A discussion with KCTS, a Public Broadcasting Service TV station in Seattle, Washington, on how exploration and space travel can inspire a smarter world.
In an exchange with KUOW, a National Public Radio member station in Seattle, Washington, McClain answered questions about life on-board ISS and how experiments conducted in space impact our lives on Earth.

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last night robotics ground controllers completed a walk-off of the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) before maneuvering the MSS to the start position for tonight’s Materials International Space Station Experiment (MISSE) robotics operations.  Tonight, the MSS will transfer new MISSE Sample Carriers (MSC) from the JEM Airlock to the external facility. The primary MISSE platform provides the ability to test materials, coatings, and components or other larger experiments in the harsh environment of space, which is virtually impossible to do collectively on Earth.
Cygnus Cargo Transfer Operations:  The crew has completed approximately 28 hours of cargo transfer activities.  Approximately 13 hours remain to be completed.

