
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #26 Preparation: In preparation for tomorrow’s planned EVA to Remove and Replace (R&R) the failed External (EXT) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM)2, the crew performed the following tasks:

Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Swanson and FE-5 Mastracchio performed final tool configuration.
Commander (CDR) Wakata completed a tool audit.
Wakata, Swanson and Mastracchio completed Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) software review.
All 3 crew members reviewed EVA procedures.
Wakata completed part 2 of Airlock preparation to support EVA operations.

Hatch opening is scheduled for 8:25am CDT.
NanoRacks BioRacks: Following installation yesterday the ground was unable to receive data from the NanoRacks BioRack. Troubleshooting was unsuccessful and today’s Experiment Container and Controller installation was delayed and Nanoracks Platform-3 was powered off. Swanson performed additional troubleshooting steps this morning with no success. Ground teams are working on a forward plan to recover the BioRack hardware.
T-Cell Finalization: Mastracchio copied and transferred the T-Cell data from the KUBIK-3 to the European Drawer Rack (EDR) laptop. He then disconnected and stowed the KUBIK-3. T-Cell samples will be returned to the ground for analysis on Dragon at the end of the SpaceX-3 mission. T-Cell seeks the cause of a depression in the human immune system while in microgravity. T-cells, a type of white cell, are coated with chemical receptors that must trigger together to activate the body’s immune system properly. T-cells from flight crews and ground volunteers in a range of ages are analyzed to determine changes in protein production and gene response on the ground and in microgravity.
SpaceX (SpX)-3 Status: Dragon systems are nominal. Powered cargo still on board is nominal (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator [GLACIER], Optical PAyload for Lasercomm Science [OPALS], and High Definition Earth Viewing [HDEV]).  Dragon cargo operations are approximately 20% complete.

