
Fluid Shifts Dilution Measurements:  The 49S subjects completed their Return minus 45 (R-45) Fluid Shifts Dilution Measurements activities today, collecting saliva, blood and urine and inserting them into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) prior to ingesting a Sodium Bromide (NaBr) tracer. Throughout the day, the crew will perform more collections, storing them in MELFI as well.  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging with Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure). The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and to prevention of eye damage. 
JAXA Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) #12 Installation and Execution:  The crew installed and configured the JAXA PCG#12 canisters in JEM Ryutai rack. This experiment will run until removal for return on 49S.  The two canisters contain a total of 47 protein samples that were prepared by Russian and Japanese researchers from universities, national research institutes, and the private sector. The purpose of this activity is to obtain high quality protein crystals in the microgravity environment at a constant temperature for about 6 weeks. Results may contribute to the development of drugs for multidrug-resistant bacteria, Alzheimer’s disease, muscular dystrophy and periodontitis. They will also aid in the development of a blood substitute and biosensor. 
Orbital 7 (OA-7) Arrival Preparations: In preparation for OA-7 capture and berthing this Saturday, the crew completed the following:

Reviewed Cygnus attached phase configuration, hardware, and stowage.
Relocated Portable Computer System (PCS) and cables from Japanese Experiment Module Pressurized Module (JPM) Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) to the Lab UOP.
Completed a Robotics Onboard Trainer (RoBOT) session to practice Capture Point hold runs and 2 meter runs.


