
Fluid Shifts (FS) Baseline Imaging Operations: With guidance from the ground teams, crewmembers continued supporting the second week of FS operations by conducting an Ultrasound 2 scan and eye exams using the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) hardware. Fluids Shift is divided into three one-week segments: Dilution Measures, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging using the Russian Chibis Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) device. The experiment measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures.
 
Cell Mechanosensing- 3 (CMS-3) Closeout: Following completion of microscope observations last week, the crew completed closeout activities by removing the Thermal Container from the Microscope in Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack Work Volume (MSPR WV). The investigation identifies gravity sensors in skeletal muscle cells to develop countermeasures to muscle atrophy. Scientists believe that the lack of mechanical stress from gravity causes tension fluctuations in the plasma membrane of skeletal muscle cells which changes the expression of key proteins and genes and allows muscles to atrophy.
 
Strata Payload Activation: The crew configured and activated Strata-1 in the US LAB. Strata-1 investigates the properties and behavior of regolith on small, airless bodies.  Regolith is the impact-shattered “soil” found on asteroids, comets, the Moon, and other airless worlds, but it is different from soil on Earth in that it contains no living material.  Strata-1’s goal is to provide answers about how regolith behaves and moves in microgravity, how easy or difficult it is to anchor a spacecraft in regolith, how it interacts with spacecraft and spacesuit materials, and other important properties.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations/HTV-6 Get-ahead Tasks: Robotics Ground Controllers are currently performing 1A battery operations.  The first bolt’s torque has been successfully released. Engineering and robotics teams are working a forward plan for battery 3A2-2 H1 bolt completion including increasing the maximum commanded torque. Additional attempts are tentatively scheduled tomorrow.
 
Inadvertent Time Tag Command during 4A3 Battery Reconditioning: During 4A3 battery reconditioning operations this morning, a time-tagged command executed after the time tag queue had been cleared. The executed command was the Battery Charge Discharge Unit (BCDU) Fault Isolator Closed command.  After the error was discovered, a BCDU Fault Isolator Open command was executed to correct. There were no impacts to the vehicle. Data will be evaluated following 4A3 battery reconditioning completion on May 4 to determine if there was any impact to the reconditioning effort.
 
Human Research Facility (HRF) Resupply: The crew restocked HRF supplies and trashed expired and limited life items.
 

