
Payloads:
Genomic Enumeration of Antibiotic Resistance in Space (GEARS): Following the completion of the MinION Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) sequencing, today the crew powered off and stowed the hardware. More information on the GEARS investigation can be found here.
Omics Archive: The crew collected various biological samples in support of the Omics Archive investigation. More information of Omics Archive can be found here.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The crew removed the processed Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) and installed a new SCA. The new SCA is part of the Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions-3 (MICAST-3) investigation. MICAST-3 seeks to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. The patterns of the crystals resulting from transitions of liquids to solids is important in the production of materials such as solar cells, thermoelectrics, and metal alloys. 
Thigh Cuff: In support of the Thigh Cuff investigation, the crew performed ultrasound scans, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), and blood pressure measurements. More information on this investigation can be found here.
Systems:
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Quarterly Maintenance: Today, the ISS crew completed regularly scheduled maintenance which included inspection of the X-Rotation Dashpots, cycling of the main arm through full range of motion, and applying grease to the ARED rails and rollers. This quarterly maintenance allows the ARED exercise device to keep operating nominally as well as verifying if any wear and tear exists on the hardware.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) International Docking Adapter (IDA) Multilayer Insulation (MLI) Inspection: Today, the crew inspected and photo-documented the IDA Forward MLI at the IDA to Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA) interface for blanket bunching, exposed Velcro and exposed metallic structure. The IDA converts the PMA from the Shuttle-era Androgynous Peripheral Attachment System (APAS) docking system to a standardized docking system that allows automated docking of vehicles to the US Segment of ISS. The IDA consists of a Modified APAS (MAPAS) ring, a short tunnel, and an IDA Passive Hard Mate Assembly (PHMA). 
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew verified the Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs) and the Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs) are all free of damage to ensure functionality. The crew spends several minutes to inspect each item and notes any visual damage. PEPS inspections are performed routinely to ensure good operational condition in the case of an emergency. The PBA provides breathable O2, eye/nose/mouth protection, and two-way communications to a crewmember during a fire, rapid depressurization, or toxic spill event.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap: Today, the crew reconfigured EMUs on EMU Don-Doff Assemblies (EDDA) for upcoming activities. The EDDA provides restraint of the EMU during EVA prep and post activities, as well as stowage of the EMU when it is not being used.
Water Storage System (WSS) Water Resupply Tank (RST) Changeout: The crew changed out RSTs 3 and 4 in WSS LAB1D4. The WSS resupply tanks are commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) tanks. The outer shell of the tank is a fiberglass composite that is sealed with an epoxy resin (not wetted). The interior of the shell is lined with polyethylene and the internal bladder is the polyether urethane material. Unlike most of the bladder tanks commonly used in space operations, the water is stored between the bladder and the shell (as opposed to inside the bladder). During transfer operations, the bladder is filled with compressed air which forces the water out of the tank.
