
Payloads:
Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings-2 (AC-2): Final surface swabs were performed and three placards were stowed for return. More information on this experiment can be found here.
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): Three tissue cassettes were installed into the BFF Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator (MERLIN) Insert Assembly and then the insert assembly was loaded into the MERLIN. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The Express Rack-07 Medium Temperature Loop (MTL) was reconnected to allow ground teams to verify that the upper leg valve could properly close. The MTL system is in full functional readiness for the upcoming CAL Remove and Replace (R&R) and Science Module 4 installation. More information on the current experiment (Cold Atom Lab) can be found here.
AstroPi: The AstroPi Vis camera lens was refocused in order to continue Earth observation operations. More information on this experiment (AstroPi) can be found here.
Genomic Enumeration of Antibiotic Resistance in Space (GEARS): GEARS DNA samples were whole genome sequenced using the MinION portable sequencing device. More information on the current experiment (GEARS) can be found here.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction – Material Ignition and Suppression Test (SoFIE-MIST): The Heat Flux Radiometer was adjusted to position “A”. More information on the current experiment (SoFIE-MIST) can be found here.
Systems:
ISS Reboost: Overnight, the ISS performed a nominal reboost using the Progress 87P Rendezvous and Docking (R&D) thrusters on SM Aft. The purpose of this reboost was to set up for the proper phasing conditions for Progress 88P launch in late May. 
Dragon Propulsion Checkouts: Overnight, the ground team performed nominal Dragon Draco thruster checkouts for both SpaceX-30 and Crew-8 Dragon as part of the propulsion system checkout in preparation for the upcoming SpaceX-30 Undock and Crew-8 relocation. The Solar Alpha Rotary Joints (SARJs) and Beta Gimble Assemblies (BGAs) were positioned in support of the test. Arrays were brought back to nominal stage configuration (autotracking) after completion of the test.
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued preparing and transferring cargo from ISS to the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until NET April 28th before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Brine Filter Changeout: As part of regular maintenance, the crew completed a brine filter changeout of the UPA brine filter. Brine filters are replaced every 60 days. The filter scrubs odor from the air leaving the UPA.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
