
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #62: Today, ISS CDR Oleg Kononenko (EV1) and FE-2 Nikolai Chub (EV2) performed RS EVA 62 with FE-17 Aleksandr Grebenkin providing IV operator support. The MRM2 hatch opened at 09:57 AM CDT. Today’s EVA lasted approximately 4 hours and 36 minutes and completed the following tasks:

Fully deploy the second panel of MiniRSA science hardware
Transfer of the [РК]-21-8 adapter from УРМ-Д (Portable Multipurpose Workstation) on SM Pl. II to MRM2
Installation of platform w/ adapters on MRM2
Installation of KVARTZ unit on MRM2
Installation of [ТКК-КМ] unit on MRM2
Removal of BIORISK-MSN container
Taking swab samples from the ISS RS exterior as part of SE Test
Changing orientation of БКДО unit on MRM2

Payloads:
Genomic Enumeration of Antibiotic Resistance in Space (GEARS): Media plate kits were insert into a Minus Eighty-degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) unit. More information on the current experiment (GEARS) can be found here.
Systems:
Environmental Health System (EHS) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Archive Sample Collect: Yesterday, the crew performed periodic EHS water sampling by collecting water samples from the PWD for post-flight analysis. The post-flight sample will return on SpaceX-30 for additional ground analysis. These tests are used to determine if the drinking water is still safe for crew consumption.
Transfer Cargo Dragon Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued preparing and transferring cargo from ISS to the SpaceX-30 cargo vehicle. SpaceX-30 is scheduled to remain at the ISS until NET April 28th before it undocks to return cargo and payloads to the ground.
Dragon Docking System Cleaning: The crew inspected and cleaned the Dragon Docking System Forward Hatch in preparation of the SpaceX-30 undock. This activity is performed prior to departure to ensure successful Forward Hatch closure and seal, as well as avoid Foreign Object Debris (FOD) compromising the International Docking Adapter (IDA) seal surface during undock. The IDA converts the Pressurized Module Adapter (PMA) from the Shuttle-era Androgynous Peripheral Attachment System (APAS) docking system to a new low-impact docking system that allows automated docking of visiting vehicles to the US Segment of the ISS.
