ISS On-Orbit Status 04/25/09
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – half-duty day for CDR Padalka, FE-1 Barratt, FE-2 Wakata.
 
 The crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 As part of the house cleaning, Padalka conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9).
 
 Barratt performed the daily procedure of flushing the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) ambient line with ~50mL of water (into a towel/Ziploc bag).  PWD water is currently cleared only for hygienic use.     [While final analysis of the PWD sample results on the ground is still pending, experts recommend keeping water flowing in the line daily to help control microbial growth.  The flushing will be done daily unless at least this amount has been dispensed for other activities during the day.]
 
 Mike also completed regular service on the WPA (Water Processor Assembly), first offloading the WPA into a CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodine, #1015) with the common H2O Transfer Hose (which took about 19 min) from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Auxiliary Port, then flushing the system.    [PWD water can be used by the crew for hygiene but is still off limits for human consumption until results of the post-flight analysis of 15A-returned samples are available.  Preliminary results of the sample analyses look good; the final report will be available on 4/28/09.  It is likely that approval for consumption of PWD water will be given at that point.]
 
 Wakata completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and File Server SSC (Station Support Computer) laptops.
 With the POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center)/Huntsville currently under power outage, FE-1 Barratt several times during the day performed status checks on critical payload equipment usually monitored from the ground, specifically on the –
 
 <ul><li>GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator) [comparing setpoint &amp; actual temp, should remain below -95 degC], <li>MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator), and  <li>MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for the ISS)  [checking on Dewars 1,2,3 – should remain below -90 degC, Dewar 4 should be at -2 degC, and gas bearing temp – should be below 40 degC.] 
 </li></li></li></ul>
 Gennady Padalka copied accumulated EXPOSE-R science data from the BSMM (Multiplex Bus Synchronization Unit) to a PCMCIA memory card in the RSS1 laptop.    [The EXPOSE-R experiment contains plant seeds and spores of bacteria &amp; fungi.  It was mounted outside the SM during the Russian EVA-21 on 12/22/08.] 
 
 At ~10:00am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 The CDR performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-2), and ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2).
 
 Afterwards, Koichi Wakata downloaded the exercise data file to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 Gennady today has six new job items on his Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, leading off with a session of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program, using the NIKON D2X digital camera to take 800mm-lens telephotos for subsequent downlinking on the BSR-TM payload data channel.    [Uplinked targets for today were the Swiss Alps, the Allaline Glacier, and towns on the eastern seaboard of Italy after the earthquake.]
 
 The second voluntary task for Padalka, spread over the next few days, was to remove eight ventilation fans in the SM and replace them with new units delivered on Progress.   [Fans to be R&amp;R’d are designated VPF1, VPF2, VV2RO, VPO5, VPO6, VPO11, VAP1, and VSU].
 
 As third task item, the CDR was to conduct an audit of Russian photo equipment, specifically checking camera lenses for protective caps and searching for any missing caps, plus cleaning lenses with Lenspen rubber bulb and tissue paper.
 
 Another discretionary job waiting for Gennady was to clean the CCD (Charge-Coupled Device) sensor matrix of the Nikon D3 &amp; Nikon D3X digital cameras of any dust particles and check on the result. 
 
 As fifth item, the CDR’s “job jar” list shows another session for Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.   [Today’s target: African coastline water surface contamination and water surface contamination in Sovetskaya Gavan port.]
 
 The sixth job suggestion for Gennady is trash gathering for disposal on Progress 32P, to be undocked on 5/6.
 
 VolSci Preview:   Two optional activities for the Voluntary Science program on 5/2 (Saturday) were suggested to Dr. Mike for his choice.    [The choices are: (1) BCAT (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test): Find &amp; photograph crystals (different colors) in samples 8, 9 and 10, then set up image on sample 4, verify focus and take multiple flash angle photos of sample 4.  Next, homogenize sample 4 and take test photos. Sample 4 will run with automated EarthKAM photography for about 8 days.  (2) BISE (Bodies In the Space Environment): Relative Contributions of Internal and External Cues to Self – Orientation, During and After Zero Gravity Exposure.] 
 
 UPA Failure:   On Thursday (4/23) evening, the Urine Processing Assembly experienced a check valve fault for each of four consecutive runs, which appears to be a re-occurrence of the sticky check valve issues previously seen on the UPA.  It had been determined before that the check valve is not required and will be removed.  Since the UPA had lost the capability to process urine and the WSTA (Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly was 70% full, the crew has been directed to use the SM ASU toilet facility through this weekend.  Specialists will convene to determine a forward plan which includes using the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) in manual mode, and developing IFM (In-Flight Maintenance) procedures to remove the valve.
 
 TVM Update:  Yesterday, TsUP/Moscow ground controllers performed a restart with context of the subset 1 of the Russian TVM (Terminal Computer System) in the SM.  No changes were made to the hardware, software or firmware prior to restart, and the data were recorded.  The TVM-1 failed out of set approximately 1h 20min later. Further restarts will be attempted in the future after specialists review the data and determine a forward plan.  Meanwhile, TVM is running nominally on two subsets. 
 
 Solar Array Characterization Test:  Overnight on 4/22-23, the DTF (Dedicated Thruster Firing) test for structural dynamics characterization of the S4 (Starboard-4) solar array truss was completed successfully by ground controllers.  A similar DTF for the S6 truss is scheduled for next week.
 
 
