
51 Progress (51P) Docking: 51P successfully docked to the ISS Russian Segment Service Module (SM) aft port with this morning with contact and capture occurring at 7:26 am CDT. All Progress systems operated nominally with the exception of Kurs АСФ2 antenna which had still not deployed. A software patch was uplinked to the 51P vehicle which allowed the automated rendezvous using only one deployed antenna and extended the final approach time from 11 to 20 minutes.  Hatch opening occurred at 10:30 am CDT.

Capillary Flow Experiments (CFE) Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-9 Operations: Marshburn unstowed the hardware, prepared the Maintenance Work Area (MWA), secured the CFE hardware on the MWA, positioned the High Definition (HD) camcorder and performed the 5th of 10 planned runs of this experiment. CFE is a suite of fluid physics experiments that investigates how fluids translate across surfaces in microgravity. The results aim to improve current computer models that are used by designers of low gravity fluid systems and may improve fluid transfer systems for water on future spacecraft.
In- Flight Maintenance (IFM) American to Russian Converter Unit [CHT]: Hadfield conducted the last day of this 4-day test which characterized the magnitude and frequency of the current noise seen by Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU)2A as well as MBSU4A. The test utilized an on-orbit oscilloscope and current probe, controlled by the SSC laptop, to measure the magnitude and frequency of the current. Following the test he removed the test equipment and stowed in Node 1.  Data will be analyzed to determine if the magnitude of the measured noise can damage USOS hardware on-orbit.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan: Hadfield, acting as Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and with assistance from the ground, set up the equipment and performed a Panoptic exam on FE-3 Cassidy. This exam is part of nominal medical testing on ISS crewmembers and is performed as part of a suite of eye exams this week, including Wednesday’s ultrasound exam and yesterday’s tonometry session to gather information on intraocular pressure and eye anatomy.
Reversible Figures (RF) Experiment: Marshburn and Hadfield performed their 6th and last session of this experiment. The experiment investigates whether the perception of ambiguous perspective-reversible figures (figure that can normally be seen to change in perspective or orientation in two different ways) is affected by microgravity. A comparison of the perceived reversals during visualization of the figures in crewmembers occurs before, during and after long-term exposure to microgravity. It is expected that measurable, perceptual differences can expand our understanding of human cognitive-perception dynamics by examining the differences that exist between the microgravity environment of the International Space Station (ISS) and that of the Earth’s surface.
Conjunction Status: Updates received on Object 30917 (debris from a Chinese satellite) confirm that it is no longer a threat to the ISS.  Ground specialists recommend standing down from any Debris Avoidance Maneuver (DAM) planning, and to proceed with a nominally scheduled reboost on Sunday to set up for phasing of the 33 Soyuz landing and 35 Soyuz docking, both scheduled for May.

Previous Status (04/25/13)
51 Progress (51P) Docking Status: Following yesterday’s launch, the Progress 51P Kurs-A antenna АСФ2 failed to deploy nominally.  All attempts by MCC-M to deploy the antenna have been unsuccessful.  MCC-M is working a plan to dock Progress to the SM AFT docking port with the antenna in the stowed configuration, which will be reviewed by the other ISS Partners.  At this time, docking is still scheduled for tomorrow at 7:26 am. All other Progress systems are performing nominally.

Robonaut Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn conducted a procedures review, set up video in Node 2 and performed the 2nd of this 2-day session of Taskboard and Tele-ops. The goals for today’s activities were orientation and depth familiarization, individual hand grasp and hand-to-hand object transfer and all were completed nominally. The Robonaut Tele-operation System is used to demonstrate the ability to effectively control Robonaut from the ISS. The research objective is to evaluate this control method in terms of its ability to perform tasks as well as measure the time necessary to complete the defined tasks. This capability will need to be developed to support future operations of Robonaut in the EVA environment as well as certain Intravehicular Activity (IVA) situations.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance: Commander (CDR) Hadfield performed this regularly scheduled maintenance today. The activity included ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) of EMUs 3010 and 3011 and Airlock cooling/water loops.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan: Hadfield, acting as Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and with assistance from the ground, set up the equipment and performed a Tonometry exam on FE-3 Cassidy. This exam is part of nominal medical testing on ISS crewmembers and is performed as part of a suite of eye exams this week, including Ultrasound yesterday and Panoptic Friday to gather information on intraocular pressure and eye anatomy.
eValuatIon And monitoring of microBiofiLms insidE (VIABLE) Experiment: Cassidy performed Onboard Training (OBT) earlier this morning and is currently conducting the once monthly session of this experiment. The potential application of novel methodologies and products to treat space materials may lead to improvement in the environmental quality of manned confined habitats on space and also specific bases and modules on earth where humans have to stay long-term, particularly for scientific purposes.
Clean Bench (CB) Preparation for Mechanisms of Gravity Resistance in Plants – From Signal Transformation and Transduction to Response (Resist Tubule): Yesterday Cassidy verified CB modes and functions including open/close loop mode, operation chamber lamp on/off and UV sterilization mode. Today he set parameters for microscope observation and observed a sample image after which he removed experiment equipment from the CB and configured the CB to the stow position. These activities are in preparation for the Resist Tubule experiment arriving on H-2 Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-4.
Potential Conjunction: Ground teams are tracking a possible conjunction with Object 30917 (debris from a Chinese satellite). The Time of Closest Approach (TCA) is Sunday, April 28 at 8:01 am CDT.

