
75P Departure: Today at 6:11 PM CST, 75 Progress (75P) is set to depart from the SM-Aft port of the International Space Station. The Russian cargo vehicle will stay in orbit for roughly 25 hours before beginning its deorbit burn at 7:01 PM CT on Wednesday 4/28, before re-entering the atmosphere for re-entry disposal at 7:36 PM CST. 75P was launched to station on April 25, 2020.
Change of Command Ceremony: Today at 12:25 PM CST, the ISS crew performed a Change of Command Ceremony so that Endeavour Crewmember Akihiko Hoshide will become the commander (CDR) of the International Space Station. Former Commander and Resilience Crewmember Shannon Walker will resume her previous “FE-13” designation as she and her crew prepare for departure from the ISS on Friday 4/30 as part of the Resilience Crew Undock.
Resilience Crew Undocking Delay: It has been decided, due to inclement weather at the landing zone, that the Resilience Crew Undocking that was scheduled for Wednesday 4/28 is to be postponed until no earlier than Friday 4/30.
Payloads:
MSL SCA-Batch3b-ESA: The crew removed the used MSL Sample Cartridge and installed the new 3B Sample Cartridge. Crew then prepared the facility for the next experiment run. The Materials Science Lab Batch 3b (MSL SCA-Batch 3b-ESA) serves two projects investigating how different phases organize in a structure when metallic alloys are solidified. The Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions (MICAST) experiment aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys. The Columnar-to-Equiaxed Transition in Solidification Processing (CETSOL) experiment aims to deepen the understanding of the physical principles that govern solidification processes in metal alloys.
Vascular Echo: The Blood Pressure Bio-Monitor wearable hardware was doffed and stowed completing a 13-hr data collection run. Cardiac and Vessel Structure and Function with Long-Duration Space Flight and Recovery (Vascular Echo) examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crewmembers are in space as well as follows their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health and quality of life for everyone.
Systems:
Crew-1 Dragon Prop Checkout: This morning ground teams performed a Dragon hotfire thruster test as a part of the propulsion system checkout in preparation for Crew-1 undock, now scheduled for 4/30.  Both Port and Starboard Solar Alpha Rotary Joints (SARJs) and Beta Gimble Assemblies (BGAs) 2B and 4A were positioned in support of the test.  Arrays were brought back to nominal stage configuration (autotracking) after completion of the test.

