
NanoRacks External Platform (NREP) Operations:  The crew depressurized and vented the Japanese Experiment Module(JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) in preparation for the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) transfer of the NREP to the JEM External Facility (JEM-EF) this Friday.  
Fluid Shifts Baseline Imaging: The 49S crew continued this week’s Fluid Shifts baseline imagery activities.  With one crew member performing as an onboard operator, ultrasound imaging was taken of arterial and venous measures at various body locations. Additional measurements using the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), ESA’s Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Device, and Intraocular Pressure (IOP) were taken as well. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Sample Holder Exchange: The crew completed a JAXA ELF Sample Chamber removal and inspection. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): The crew completed a series of interactive tasks for the FMS investigation which studies how fine motor skills are affected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth’s gravity. The goal of the investigation is to determine how fine motor performance in microgravity trends/varies over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compares with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trends/varies before and after gravitational transitions including periods of early flight adaptation and very early/near immediate post-flight periods. 
4K Ultra-High Definition (UHD) Streaming: The crew performed a successful 4K live video demo for the annual National Association of Broadcasters Convention (NAB). This meeting is attended by over 100,000 representatives in the media industry (ex., journalists, directors, producers and video engineers). The ISS showcased live 4K ISS downlink at a keynote address as part of the convention.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Yesterday Robotics Ground Controllers powered off the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and the Mobile Base System (MBS) and translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 6 (WS6) to WS3.  After powering the MBS and SPDM back up to operational they maneuvered the SPDM to unstow Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) #2 from the Tool Holster Assembly (THA). This was the first day of operations to set up MSS for the Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) S11A-C swap with RPCM S14B-G scheduled this Friday, April 28th.

