
New Status:
51 Progress (51P) Launch: 51P launched at 5:12 am CDT. Ascent was nominal and the vehicle reached orbital insertion at 5:21 am CDT. All appendages except Kurs-A antenna АСФ2 were deployed.  Telemetry shows the АСФ2 antenna remains in its fully stowed position. The Russians are troubleshooting in the hopes of deploying the antenna. A decision from the Russians as to whether or not to attempt docking on Friday is expected on Thursday; all other Progress systems are performing nominally.
Onboard Training (OBT) Emergency Simulation: Ground teams and all 6 crewmembers participated in the OBT with the crew using the onboard simulator and practiced steps required in the event of an onboard fire. Following this activity the crew conducted conference with the ground trainers in Houston and Moscow to review the event. The goal is to make communication between ground and crew as realistic as possible during these events.
Robonaut Operations: Marshburn reviewed a video, set up the Node 2 camcorder and deployed and attached the Taskboard in preparation for the start of a two day session of Taskboard and Tele-ops. The Robonaut Tele-operation System is used to demonstrate the ability to effectively control Robonaut from the ISS. The research objective is to evaluate this control method in terms of its ability to perform tasks as well as measure the time necessary to complete the defined tasks. This capability will need to be developed to support future operations of Robonaut in the EVA environment as well as certain Intravehicular Activity (IVA) situations. Marshburn will conduct another TeleOps session tomorrow.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-3: Cassidy finished Sample 4, mixed Sample 5 and took test photos this morning of the BCAT-3 experiment. The Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School (EarthKAM) software has been configured to take photos automatically for 7 days starting today, once per hour for 3 days, then once every 2 hours for the last 4 days. The BCAT experiment studies nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions will have the unique property that the particles will phase separate (like oil and water) and the particles will self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light (like opal). Photographing these samples in microgravity allow the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. This study will allow the development of new insights into this important material process.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound 2 Scan: Hadfield, acting as Crew Medical Officer (CMO), set up the equipment and performed an eye ultrasound exam on Cassidy. This exam is part of nominal medical testing on ISS crewmembers and will be performed as a suite of eye exams this week, including Tonometry scheduled for tomorrow and Panoptic scheduled on Friday to gather information on intraocular pressure and eye anatomy.
Thermolab Instrumentation for Circadian Rhythms:  Hadfield attached Thermolab sensors and mounted and powered on the Thermolab unit in the belt which he will wear for the next 36 hours. Circadian Rhythms objective is to get a better understanding of alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights. Such knowledge will not only provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, but also has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions.

Previous Status (04/23/13)
Columbus Water On Off Valve 7 (WOOV7) Remove and Replace (R&R): During a WOOV8 R&R on January 18, 2013, the crew observed that WOOV7 was notably contaminated from condensation deposits. This morning Commander (CDR) Hadfield pre-gathered required tools and with assistance from Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Marshburn, removed and replaced the contaminated unit with a new type of WOOV with an improved design.

Capillary Flow Experiments (CFE)-2 Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-9 Operations: Following yesterday’s hardware setup, Marshburn performed the 4th of 10 planned runs of this experiment. He is scheduled to perform the 5th run Friday. CFE is a suite of fluid physics experiments that investigates how fluids translate across surfaces in microgravity. The results aim to improve current computer models that are used by designers of low gravity fluid systems and may improve fluid transfer systems for water on future spacecraft.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS) Experiment (BASS): Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS) Experiment (BASS): Cassidy completed the 4th of 13 sessions planned for this experiment. He is scheduled to perform the 5th session Friday. BASS examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity and will guide strategies for extinguishing fires in microgravity. BASS results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Vascular Experiment: Hadfield performed a blood draw, processed the samples and stowed them in the Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). This activity is performed twice per increment. The Vascular experiment investigates the effects of long-duration spaceflight on the cardiovascular system of astronauts on board the International Space Station (ISS). The changes brought by this unique environment could impact the vascular system and accelerate the stiffening of blood vessels that parallels the aging process.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Window Inspection: Marshburn and Cassidy performed a JEM window inspection during which they documented contamination (smudges, particulates) and damage (scratches, cracks) that were on the window pane surfaces. Emphasis was placed on the exterior surface of the debris pane and interior surface of the pressure pane.

