
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) Materials ISS Experiment – Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) Operations:  The crew extended the JEMAL Slide Table into the JEM and removed the MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT) from the table. They also removed the JEM ORU Transfer Interface (JOTI), which was configured to support the MTT, from the table. 
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems (STaARS):  The crew removed the STaARS-1 experiment facility this morning for return on the SpaceX-14 vehicle.  The STaARS-1 facility supported biotechnology and life science investigations to characterize the effects of microgravity on living systems, targeting the molecular responses that alter cell physiology and lead to unique cellular processes and the production of novel compounds that can impact pharmaceutical, tissue engineering, regenerative medicine, biofuel, and discovery sciences. 
Space Headaches:  Two 53S crewmembers completed the weekly questionnaire for the ESA Space Headaches investigation today. This investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improve the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission. 
Node 3 (N3) External Wireless Communication (EWC) Systems Installation: The crew installed the N3 internal hardware required to interface with the EWC antennas that were installed during US EVA 49. Once installed, the BelAir Wireless Access Point (WAP) and associated coaxial, Ethernet, and power cabling will allow Joint Station Local Area Network (LAN) (JSL) data transmission to external payloads from these new external locations. The first payload scheduled to use this capability is ECOSTRESS arriving on SpaceX-15. 
Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew continued loading Dragon with cargo scheduled for return. Today the crew completed the fourth Dragon Cargo Message less 1 hour. The fifth cargo message, which includes Dragon Center Stack packing instructions, will be uploaded to the crew this weekend.  SpaceX-14 is currently scheduled to unberth on May 2. SpaceX-14 is currently scheduled to unberth on 2 May at 9:32 AM CDT.  
Node 3 (N3) Mass Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Troubleshooting: The reinstallation of the original ORU 08 (S/N F0001) last Thursday did not resolve the diverging constituent data issue in the N3 MCA.  Data review continues to point towards the ORU 02 as the likely cause of the anomalous readings. Today, the crew removed both ORU 02 and ORU 08 for return and refurbishment on SpaceX-14. ORU 08 (S/N F0002) is currently being re-installed in the N3 MCA and the rear utilities will be left de-mated so that the crew will not need to rotate the rack to install the next available ORU 02 spare scheduled for arrival on SpaceX-15. 
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) operations: Overnight, the ground Robotics Controllers will stow the Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) and Tool Holder Assembly (THA) used during Materials International Space Station Experiment (MISSE) robotics operations.  Once complete, they will stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and complete a SSRMS walk-off to the Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF). Tonight’s operations will conclude with the grapple of Dragon in preparation for unberth next Wednesday, 2 May at 9:32 AM CDT.    

