
50 Soyuz (50S) Launch/Dock: 50S launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome today at 2:13AM CDT with Fyodor Yurchikhin and Jack Fischer aboard and docked in the automated mode to the Mini Research Module (MRM)-2 at 8:24AM CDT.  Following hatch opening at 10:05AM CDT, all crew members participated in a crew safety briefing to review emergency actions and roles and responsibilities in the event of a depressurization, fire or toxic release. With the arrival of these crewmembers the ISS is in 5-crew operations. 
Electromagnetic Levitation (EML) Sample Coupling Electronic (SCE) Changeout: The crew swapped SCE Chambers in the Experiment Module of the EML today.  The SCE measures electrical resistivity of samples inside the EML which contains 4 inserts for Electromagnetic Levitation samples. The experiment samples are installed in a dedicated Sample Chamber that is attached to EML and will be replaced by new Sample Chambers for new experiment batches.
Microgravity Experiment Research Locker / INcubator (MERLIN) 2 Health and Status Troubleshooting:  The crew performed troubleshooting steps to recover Health and Status data which terminated on March 30, 2017. The crew then attempted to reboot the computer but the unit failed to reboot and is no longer cooling. A replacement MERLIN will arrive on OA-7.
Orbital 7 (OA-7) Arrival Preparations: In preparation for this Saturday’s OA-7 arrival, the crew deployed and performed a checkout of the Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) on the Node 1 Nadir hatch. Video from the CBCS is used to aid Flight Controllers during Visiting Vehicle mating operations. 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status: Overnight, the UPA experienced a fault due to apparent belt slippage in the DA. This signature has been seen on previous DAs, however it is the first occurrence since installing this ORU on April 13th. Ground teams are discussing the signature and forward plan for restarting the UPA.
Solar Array Wing (SAW) 3B Hinge Tear: During a review of imagery taken during Tuesday’s routine solar array inspection, ground teams identified a ~6-7 inch “tear” on one of the hinges of the 3B solar array blanket. The damage was reviewed prior to 50S docking and it was determined that, given the extent of the damage, there was no concern of propagation of that damage based on the expected loading conditions for the event. Followup imagery will be requested to assess the level of damage incurred and determine whether any additional actions will be required.

