ISS On-Orbit Status 04/28/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew off duty.    The crew is back on normal wake/sleep cycle (2:00am-5:30pm EDT)
 
After breakfast, CDR Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.  
 
FE-5 Kuipers powered up the ISS amateur/ham radio equipment (which had been turned off to prevent IR interference with Soyuz undocking).
 
FE-6 Pettit conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.
 
As generally on Saturdays, the crewmembers joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Oleg completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of the TsV2 fan screen in the FGB, then worked in the SM cleaning Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP), the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille and today the three IDZ-3 smoke detectors.
 
Kononenko also performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Also as part of uborka, FE-5 Kuipers used the vacuum cleaner to remove any dust and debris from the vents of the OpsLAN Server T61p SSCs (Station Support Computers) located in Lab bay O1 (LS1 &amp; ISS-SERVER1) to ensure their optimal performance.
 
André opened the protective window shutters of the Lab WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment and activated the ISSAC laptop, so ground images can be captured by ground commanding.        [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
At ~8:30am, the crew held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR).     [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.]
 
Tasks listed for Kononenko on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormalCxSpMiddle" style="color:black;margin-bottom:10.0pt;mso-add-space:auto;line-height:115%;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li class="MsoNormalCxSpMiddle" style="color:black;margin-bottom:10.0pt;mso-add-space:auto;line-height:115%;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).</li></ul> 

