
New Status:
Columbus Water On Off Valve 7 (WOOV7) Remove and Replace (R&R) Preparation: Commander (CDR) Hadfield pre-gathered hardware in preparation for the WOOV7 R&R scheduled for tomorrow.
Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Hardware Replacement: Cassidy reviewed procedures, gathered hardware, accessed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Combustion Chamber and removed the MDCA Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA). He then replaced the MDCA Needle 1 due to a fuel line that was damaged during previous activities when the MDCA CIA was being removed from the Combustion Chamber. The damage likely occurred when the disconnected end of one of the water hoses slipped across the bayonet that connects the fuel line to the reservoir.
Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students (EarthKAM): Cassidy set up the payload components in Node 2 and activated the camera and software for a week-long imaging session. EarthKAM is an education program that enables thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the International Space Station. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The team at EarthKAM then posts these photographs on the Internet for the public and participating classrooms around the world to view.
Capillary Flow Experiments (CFE) Hardware Setup: Marshburn unstowed CFE hardware, prepared the Maintenance Work Area, secured the CFE hardware on the MWA, and positioned the High Definition (HD) camcorder in preparation for the 4th and 5th of 10 planned sessions scheduled for tomorrow and Friday.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pre-Treat Tank Remove & Replace: Marshburn performed this R&R which is based on WHC flush counts and must be completed before the tank runs dry.
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA)-32 Tool Handover/Stow: Marshburn and Vinogradov transferred US EVA tools used last Friday on EVA #32 from the RS to the USOS. Marshburn then stowed them in their nominal location.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) [СНТ] Test Setup: On July 25, 2012 a Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU)2A Remote Bus Isolator (RBI) 5 overcurrent trip occurred, which powers Service Module (SM) [CHT] (American to Russian Converter Unit) 21 and [CHT]22. The cause of the trip was noise. Over the next 4 days, Hadfield will conduct a test which characterized the magnitude and frequency of the current noise seen by MBSU2A as well as MBSU4A. The test uses an on-orbit oscilloscope and current probe, controlled by the SSC laptop, to measure the magnitude and frequency of the current. Data will be analyzed by the team to determine if the magnitude of the measured noise can damage USOS hardware on-orbit.

Previous Status (04/19/13)
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #32: Flight Engineer (FE)-1 Vinogradov and FE-4 Romanenko performed a 6 hour 38 minute EVA. Egress was at 9:03 am. All planned tasks were completed nominally, including installation of the Obstanovka experiment, and the removal and replacement of the Laser Radar Reflector (LRR).  The LRR is used as a reference point during docking of the ATV vehicle to the Service Module (SM) port.  The crew also retrieved the Biorisk experiment which was a get-ahead task. Due to additional hatch closures during a RS EVA, FE-3 Cassidy and FE-2 Misurkin were isolated in the Mini Research Module (MRM)-2/34 Soyuz, and Commander (CDR) Hadfield and FE-6 Marshburn were isolated in the US Segment from the Functional Cargo Block (FGB) forward.
Blood Pressure (BP) Regulation (Reg) Experiment: Wednesday Hadfield set up the Human Research Facility (HRF) PFS (Pulmonary Function System) and the European Physiology Module (EPM) CDL (Cardiolab) LACS (Leg/Arm Cuff System) and conducted the first ever session of this experiment. Today Marshburn conducted another session of the experiment. The test will help to identify the astronauts who could benefit from countermeasures before returning to Earth. This method has great potential for astronaut health monitoring during future long-term space flights and it also has important implications for testing of individuals on Earth, especially the elderly, who are at risk for fainting. The research will also allow demonstrating the feasibility of obtaining a set of indicators of overall cardiovascular regulation from the non-invasive measurement of continuous blood pressure.
EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Laptop Computer (ELC) Software Updates: Marshburn loaded EXPRESS Software Version 9.0, Basic Input/Output System (BIOS), Serial Network Flow Monitor (SNFM) software and configured the EXPRESS Rack-8 Laptop Computer (ELC) for operations. He configured and loaded Microgravity Experiment Research Locker/Incubator (MERLIN) and General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) payload application software onto the ELC.
Education Payload Operations (EPO) DualFields Demonstration: Marshburn reviewed procedures, gathered materials, watched a video and with assistance from Hadfield performed a demonstration showing onboard technology used to capture Earth images from the ISS for Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School (EarthKAM) missions. EPO demos are educational videos conducted by crewmembers on-board the ISS and are seen by grades 5-12 students and educators.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pump-Separator Remove and Replace: Earlier today the WHC was not functioning and the check separator light illuminated. Hadfield replaced the Pump-Separator Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) and the WHC is operating nominally again.

