
Payloads
Celestial Immunity: The crew swapped the Short Trays in two SABLs 1 and 3 in preparation to support operations. This project seeks to gain a broad understanding of how gravity affects overall human immune function and potentially uncover novel pathways of immune function that can be exploited to develop better vaccines and immunobiologics for human use. The project will build on earlier studies that evaluated lymphocyte (a type of white blood cell) function in microgravity. The project will also evaluate whether gravity-regulated immune pathways are affected by age by examining cells from young adult and elderly donors in parallel.
HISUI (Hyperspectral Imager Suit): The crew removed and replaced the Portable 4TB HDD from the Z-Book connected to JAXA Mission Data Recorder in support of HISUI operations. HISUI is a next-generation spaceborne hyperspectral Earth imaging system. The objective is to obtain the data necessary to begin a full-scale practical application development for hyperspectral remote sensing through manufacturing, and the inflight performance verification of a hyperspectral imager onboard ISS.
Micro-16: The crew performed Micro-16 Final Loading and Microscopy Operations for Session 4 Day 1. Loss of muscle mass and strength present a major challenge for astronauts on future long space voyages. Determining Muscle Strength in Space-flown Caenorhabditis elegans (Micro-16) uses this tiny worm to test whether decreased expression of muscle proteins is associated with decreased strength. The research team developed a new device to measure muscle strength in multiple generations of space-reared C. elegans worms and compare that strength to postflight muscle gene expression analyses.
Myotones: The crew performed Myotones Ultrasound sessions and skin markings measurements. The investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g. muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth, as well as for future space missions.
RTPCG-2 (Real-Time Protein Crystal Growth-2): The crew performed Real-time Protein Crystal Growth Production Plate Loading for plate S/N 2B1. Phase II Real-time Protein Crystal Growth on Board the International Space Station (RTPCG-2) demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity produces high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 produces high-quality protein crystals for up to eight proteins for detailed analysis back on Earth.
SABL (Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory): The crew swapped out the CO2 Incubator Controller for SABL-3. SABL supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28vdc and 5vdc power supplies for investigation use.
ISS HAM: The crew performed a contact with Winmalee Public School, Blue Mountains, NSW, Australia. ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Systems
Adlink Ethernet Cable Swap: Three of the Ethernet cables in Node 3 had broken plastic tabs on the Adlink Mini PCs. Today the crew replaced the cables and provided feedback to the ground on Ethernet cable susceptibility to broken tabs and recommendations to protect them from future damage.
Node 2 (N2) Joint Station Local Area Network (JSL): The crew swapped a failed N2 JSL Firewall #2 with an onboard spare. Ground teams successfully checked out and configured the unit following power up. 
Emergency Equipment Preparation for Crew-2: The crew configured 5 emergency masks with ammonia cartridges pre-installed in preparation for Crew-2 arrival.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Deck Cleaning: The crew cleaned the CQ deck intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors in preparation for Crew-2 arrival.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics operations began yesterday in support of the Materials International Space Station Experiment (MISSE) payload. Robotics Ground Controllers translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Work Site (WS) 4 to WS7, unstowed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and Robot Microconical Tool (RMCT), extracted the MISSE Transfer Tray from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock, and translated the MT from WS7 to WS2.  Operations will continue daily through Sunday.

