
Payloads:
Astrobee – Zero Robotics: The crew reviewed the Astrobee procedures to prepare for a Zero Robotics technology demonstration session on Wednesday. Technology demonstration sessions provide practice for the crew and validate key components of the Zero Robotics competition, which will occur later. More information on the Zero Robotics investigation can be found here.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): The crew performed three xPWD AdLink Mini PC power cycles. More information on this investigation can be found here.
Systems:
EMER Air Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) Deploy: Today, the crew stowed Air PBA CTBs in Node 1 and Node 2 per recently approved stowage configuration. Emergency CTBs containing Air PBA Bottles were labeled and deployed per the revised USOS Fire Response. The PBAs provides breathable air to a crewmember during a fire, rapid depressurization, or toxic spill event.
On Board Training (OBT) Emergency Response On-board ISS: Today, the entire crew participated in a training exercise for ISS fire and rapid depressurization emergency scenarios. The emergency training involved crew and ground teams working together to practice communication and coordination while the crew physically translated through ISS to the appropriate response locations to visualize the use of equipment and interfaces. A post-simulation crew conference took place to discuss and evaluate the crew/ground control responses during the training event.
Atmospheric Control System (ACS) Nitrogen Oxygen Recharge System (NORS) Nitrogen Transfer: Today, the crew configured valves in the Airlock to perform a Nitrogen repress from the NORS Nitrogen tank installed. Then, ground teams performed a Pressure Control Assembly (PCA) N2 repress from the NORS N2 Recharge Tank. Finally, the crew terminated O2 Gas Transfer from NORS and performed a NORS O2 Teardown. NORS tanks and their support fixtures are designed to be plugged into the station’s existing air supply network to refill the tanks that were used before and brought up aboard space shuttles. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) Scan: The crew used the ultrasound device to perform a VTE scan. This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams. VTE is a condition that occurs when a blood clot forms in a vein. On Earth, this VTE is usually due to bed rest or sitting to long without moving, such as during travel; however, in space, VTE can be caused by distension and alteration of vascular structures due to fluid shifts, changes in red blood cell counts on-orbit causing blood viscosity changes, or stress.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Crew Quarters (CQ) Acoustic Blanket Removal and Replace (R&R): Yesterday and today, the crew removed and replaced Overhead and Port CQ acoustic blankets. The CQs contain sleeping bags, utility panels, ventilation system, speakers, laptops and lighting for the crew. There is additional shielding inside each CQ to reduce exposure to cosmic radiation. Periodic maintenance of the CQs ensures that the health and comfort of the crew is maintained throughout their stay on the ISS.
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Video Survey: Yesterday, the ground team at MCC-H performed a video survey of the BEAM module for potential Micro-Meteoroid and Orbital Debris (MMOD) impacts.  BEAM was originally flown as a two-year technology demonstration, but its mission has been extended so that it can be used for stowage.
IFM Oxygen Generator System (OGS) Gather: Today, the crew gathered tools and equipment in preparation for OGS Maintenance. On Friday, the crew is scheduled to R&R the OGS Hydrogen Sensor and Deionizing (DI) Bed. The OGS is part of the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS). The OGS produces oxygen via electrolysis using iodinated water from the Water Processor Assembly (WPA). Hydrogen is a byproduct of this process, and previously was used in Sabatier for water production.
