ISS On-Orbit Status 04/30/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – crew off duty. 
 
Short crew day: With last night’s late crew bedtime (11:00pm EDT), wakeup this morning allowed for a 5.5 hrs sleep-in, to 7:30am.  Sleep cycle gets back to normal tonight – 5:30pm. 
 
Upon wake-up, CDR Kondratyev performed the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> (oxygen) generator.      [Maxim Suraev installed these filters on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Dmitri inspects the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
As part of the current round of Russian ventilation systems maintenance, Alex Samokutyayev cleaned the fan grille of the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille in the SM (Service Module).
 
Afterwards, Sasha serviced the Progress-delivered biotech science payload BTKh-10/KONYUGATSIYA, first relocating it in its Rekomb-K container from the KRIOGEM-03M (at +4 degC) freezer in the SM to the TBU-V (Universal Bioengineering Thermostat V) in MRM2 (at +29degC), leaving it there for 1h50m, then returning it to KRIOGEM-03M (at +4 degC).  Dima shot documentary photos of the activities.
 
The CDR conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
At ~12:55pm, FE-2 Andrey Borisenko used the SM amateur station for a ham radio pass with students and Management of the Peruvian National Engineering University of Lima, Peru.       [In 2010, the Lima ham radio station at National Engineering University was established.  Faculty &amp; students have already conducted several successful radio sessions with ISS crews.  Today’s session was conducted in Russian, with questions asked in Spanish and translated into Russian.  Present were Nikolay Vsevolodovich Sofinsky, Ambassador Extraordinary &amp; Plenipotentiary of the Russian Federation Embassy in Peru, Alexander Nikolayevich Khokholikov, Russian Embassy Envoy-Counselor, Carlos Muniz Ortega, Chairman of Peruvian-Russian Cultural Association, a graduate of the Peoples Friendship University, Dr. of Historical Sciences, who had worked in the USSR as an Embassy of Peru Trade representative, and Jose Oliden, the University Space Program manager on behalf of Aurelio M. Padilla, D.Sc. in Engineering, the President of National Engineering University in Peru.]
 
FE-1 &amp; FE-2 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Sasha at ~9:40am, Andrey at ~10:25am EDT.
 
On this shortened crew day, the station residents worked out with an abbreviated physical exercise protocol, on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1,  FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-2, FE-5).
 
Progress 42P Deliveries:  The new cargo drone M-10M delivered 2.7 metric tons of cargo consisting of 2,976 lbs (1,350 kg) “dry” goods (food, spares, life support supplies, experiment hardware), 1,940 lbs (880 kg) refueling propellants for transfer to the SM, 926 lbs (420 kg) of water, and 110 lbs (50 kg) of oxygen.
 

