
NanoRacks BioRack Troubleshooting:  Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Swanson inserted BioRack experiment containers and controllers into the BioRack frame. Using the keyboard and Multiple Input, Multiple Output (MIMO) monitor, he commanded the BioRack manually to activate the experiment controllers. Ground teams are still troubleshooting as to why the ground could not command the BioRack frame in Platform 3 from the ground. NanoRacks BioRacks contains two investigations. NanoRacks-CellBox-Primary Human Macrophages in Microgravity Environment (NanoRacks-CellBox-PRIME) investigates microgravity-associated long-term alterations in primary human macrophages, which are responsible for attacking, and killing bacteria and other foreign and pathogenic intruders in the human body. NanoRacks-CellBox-Effect of Microgravity on Human Thyroid Carcinoma Cells (NanoRacks-CellBox-Thyroid Cancer) investigates the effects of microgravity on human thyroid carcinoma cells. The overall aim of the studies in microgravity is the identification of new biomarkers which can be used for developing new cancer drugs.
Cardio Ox Ultrasound and Blood Pressure (BP) Operations: With FE-5 Mastracchio as an operator, Commander (CDR) Wakata collected ultrasound and BP data for the Cardio Ox investigation. The goal of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15, and 60 after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
Hybrid Training Part Twelve: Wakata donned the Hybrid Training hardware, which provides electrical impulses to his non-dominant arm during concentric and eccentric arm motions. The electrical impulses help to simulate the resistance gravity would provide on the ground. This was Wakata’s twelfth of twelve Hybrid Training sessions. He will have one final session to measure the circumference of his arm and his muscle strength for comparison to the pre-investigation measurements. Hybrid Training will be used for Wakata’s upper limbs (the non-dominant arm) for four weeks, and his muscular strength and bulk will be compared to those of his dominant arm to examine its orbital operation capability utility, as well as the preventive for muscle atrophy. Hybrid Training can become a useful back-up for the standard training device on the ISS. It can also be a useful training device in small space ships for the exploration of the Moon and Mars.
Reversible Figures (RVF): Wakata conducted his sixth of six sessions of the RVF protocol. RVF investigates whether the perception of ambiguous perspective-reversible figures, a figure that can normally be seen to change in perspective or orientation in two different ways, is affected by microgravity. A comparison of the perceived reversals during visualization of the figures in crewmembers occurs before, during and after long-term exposure to microgravity. It is expected that measurable, perceptual differences can expand our understanding of human cognitive-perception dynamics by examining the differences that exist between the microgravity environment ISS and that of the Earth’s surface. Understanding whether the perception of ambiguous figures is affected by microgravity might help taking this into account for specific tasks to be executed by humans in microgravity.
Petri Plants: Swanson reviewed an On-Board Training (OBT) for the Petri Plant investigation prior to activation. He then removed the blackout cloth from the petri plates, exposed them to ambient light, and recorded light level measurements where the plants are deployed. The Petri Plants investigation focuses on the growth and development of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings in the spaceflight environment, with a specific focus on how a root knows which direction to grow in when gravity is absent. Plants are grown in agar, a nutrient solution with a gelatin-like consistency, and exposed to light or dark conditions. Plants are harvested on-orbit, preserved with a chemical preservative, and returned to the ground for post-flight evaluation.
Microbiome Sample Collection: Mastracchio collected body and perspiration samples as well as surface samples in the ISS for the Microbiome investigation. These samples will be stowed in MELFI. The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
Biological Research in Canisters  (BRIC)-18 Activation: Mastracchio activated BRIC-18 canisters A, B, and C. Later in the day Mastracchio placed canister C into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). Canisters A and B will be placed into MELFI at a later date. The BRIC-18 investigation will focus on the growth and development of seedlings in microgravity. Seedlings will be preserved with a chemical fixative and returned to the ground for post flight evaluation.
Sprint Operations: Swanson completed his Flight Day 15 Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) protocol using the Blood Pressure (BP)/Electrocardiogram (ECG) hardware. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in International Space Station (ISS) crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Columbus (COL) Water Pump Assembly (WPA): Last year, a Thermal Control System (TCS) switchover from WPA1 to WPA2 was scheduled in support of Water On Off Valve (WOOV) periodic cycling.  Attempts to restart WPA2 were unsuccessful and COL Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) has been operating on WPA1 with no redundancy. Today Mastracchio retrieved and pre-packed the failed WPA for return to ground on SpX-3.
Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) Kit and Surface Sample Kit (SSK) Sample Collection:  Wakata took air and surface samples to get a better understanding of microbial growth in the ISS modules.  The samples will be returned on 37S.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill and Pretreat Bad Qual Light (PTBQL) –  Yesterday, the crew completed a manual partial fill of the WHC Flush Water Tank.  After WHC reactivation the “Bad Pretreat Qual” light indicated a bad pretreat mix.  Nominal steps to clear the light were not successful. The crew performed troubleshooting and eventually cleared the light.  Today the PTBQL again activated.  A replacement of the dose pump failed to clear the light.  The crew then performed a pretreat tank remove and replace, and the PTBQL was no longer illuminated.  The crew was given the go to resume use of the WHC on internal EDV.
SpaceX-3 Status: The High Definition Earth Viewing (HDEV) payload was successfully extracted from the Dragon trunk today and installed on the Columbus Exposed Payload Facility.  The crew has finished unpacking the vehicle and has begun repacking return cargo.

