
Direct Current Switching Unit (DCSU) 3A:  The power system remains in a stable configuration following yesterday’s DCSU Channel 3A Remote Bus Isolator (RBI) 1 trip.  DCSUs 3A and 3B were tied together and all power loads were recovered.  Ground teams continue their investigation and are developing recovery plans.
Superconducting Submillimeter-Wave Limb-Emission Sounder (SMILES) relocation:  SMILES was relocated from Japanese Experiment Module Exposed Facility (JEM EF) position 3 to JEM EF position 5.  This was performed in order to make room for the Cloud-Aerosol Transport System (CATS) payload which is due to arrive on the SpaceX-5 vehicle and be mounted to JEM EF position 3.  The SMILES investigation aims to globally map stratospheric trace gases by means of a highly sensitive submillimeter receiver.
Dynamism of Auxin Efflux Facilitators, CsPINs, Responsible for Gravity-regulated Growth and Development in Cucumber (CsPINs) Sample Fixation: ISS CDR Wakata fixated three sets of CsPINs samples from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Incubator Unit (IU) microgravity and 1-gravity units. All fixated samples will be stowed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). CsPINs uses cucumber seedlings to analyze the effect of gravity on gravimorphogenesis (peg formation) in cucumber plants.
Petri Plants: FE-3 Swanson inserted a Petri Plate into the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC) in the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR). The ground team downlinked live video from the FIR for analysis. Swanson then took photos of the Petri Plants that are deployed and took light level measurements. Petri Plants investigation focuses on the growth and development of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings in the spaceflight environment, with a specific focus on how a root knows which direction to grow in when gravity is absent. Plants are grown in agar, a nutrient solution with a gelatin-like consistency, and exposed to light or dark conditions. Plants are harvested on-orbit, preserved with a chemical preservative, and returned to the ground for post-flight evaluation. 
Biological Rhythms: Wakata removed a digital walk holter and electrodes to end his second measurement of Biological Rhythms, and saved the data to a medical laptop. Biological Rhythms 48 hours studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
NanoRacks Module-27: Wakata used a NanoRacks swab kit to collect surface samples for the Module-27 experiment. Module-27 will characterize the microbial communities found on surfaces aboard the ISS using culture-independent methods. These samples will be returned on SpaceX-3.
Space Test Program- Houston 4 (STP-H4) and Space Communication and Navigation Testbed (SCAN Testbed) survey:  Robotics ground controllers completed the external payloads six month survey for STP-H4 and SCAN Testbed.  This survey obtains imagery of these external payloads with different angles in sunlight that can be taken at any time during Space Station Robotic Manipulator System/ Special Purpose Dextrous Manipulator (SSRMS/SPDM) operations.  The SSRMS/SPDM is currently in a good location for these surveys after the installation of Optical PAyload for Lasercomm Science (OPALS) on Express Logistics Carrier (ELC)-1.  These surveys help to correlate science data against payload condition during payload on-orbit operations, determine the effects of long duration exposure to space, and determine any impacts from visible degradation, Micro Meteoroid Orbital Debris (MMOD) strikes, mechanical integrity of pointing system and/or antennas, and insulation blankets.
Space-X 3 Release OBT:  Swanson performed training on the Robotics On-Board Trainer (ROBoT) simulator for unberth and release of the SpaceX-3 Dragon.  This was in preparation for SpaceX-3 unberth and release, currently scheduled for May 18th.  This will be the first time this has been performed with only one USOS crewmember on board station.  Additional assessments and procedure updates were put in place to support this activity. 

