
New Status: 
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Air Selector Valve (ASV) 102 Remove & Replace (R&R): On April 25 the Node 3 CDRA valve 102 failed to reach its commanded position. Over the following 24 hours the CDRA shut down 6 more times due to valve 102 not reaching position. Engineering teams reviewed the data and recommended the valve be removed and replaced. FE-6 Marshburn with the assistance of FE-3 Cassidy performed the R&R successfully. The N3 CDRA will be run for 24 hours before being deactivated. Ground teams will assess a forward plan for operating the N3 CDRA in the future. Access to the valve required removal of the Trace Contaminant Control System (TCCS) and ASV 103. The Lab CDRA has been used since N3 CDRA failure.
Robonaut Taskboard/Teleops: Cassidy and Marshburn completed the 3rd 2-day session of these activities, including vision recognition confirmation, and then powered down the system and stowed the hardware. The Robonaut Tele-operation System is used to demonstrate the ability to effectively control Robonaut from the ISS. The research objective is to evaluate this control method in terms of its ability to perform tasks as well as measure the time necessary to complete the defined tasks. This capability will need to be developed to support future operations of Robonaut in the EVA environment as well as certain Intravehicular Activity (IVA) situations.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Water Sampling:  Commander (CDR) Hadfield collected water samples using Microbial Capture Devices (MCDs) to be returned on 33Soyuz for Ground analysis, which includes: Water Processor Assembly (WPA) sample, Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) hot sample, SRVK hot and warm Service Module (SM) samples, and SVO-ZV sample for microbial and coliform detection.
Seedling Growth Experiment: Marshburn completed the second run and started the third of four runs of this experiment. The European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) seed cassettes were removed and stowed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). A new set of seed cassettes were installed to start the next Seedling Growth run. Seedling Growth studies the effects of microgravity on the growth of plants and is being performed on board the International Space Station (ISS) in collaboration with the European Space Agency.  Light and gravity sensing are key parameters in plant growth and development. Further understanding of how plants are affected by these factors helps in the development of strategies to optimize light sensing in plants, and modifying plant species by using biotechnological approaches to improve crop plants. Improvements in agricultural biotechnology lead to increased crop production, lessened environmental impact, and a greater sustainability of agricultural production to benefit human agriculture on Earth.
Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) Operations: The Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) system and began Day 4 of the RRM Tertiary Task Operations. The ground teams agreed to continue to press with the Test Port Panel (TPP) task, despite ripped MLI seen at the end of yesterday’s operations. The cutter spade on the Wire Cutting Tool (WCT) was used to complete the cutting of the MLI tape on Side 2 of the panel and then reconfigured to cut the tape on Side 3. Once the tape cutting is complete, the WCT will be used to fold back the flap to reveal a wire. The flap will be held down by a magnet, while the WCT is then used to cut the wire. Once the wire has been cut, the flap will be reclosed, completing the TPP task. Due to time constraints, it has been decided that the MLI-2 task will not be done during this set of RRM operations. Therefore, upon completion of the TPP task, the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dextre Manipulator (SPDM) will be reconfigured and the WCT and Safety Cap Tool (SCT) restowed in the RRM Tool Bay.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance: Hadfield completed regularly scheduled EMU cooling loop maintenance. The activity included ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) of EMUs 3005 and 3015 and Airlock cooling/water loops.
51 Progress (51P) Reboost: Overnight, 51P thrusters performed a nominal 1.47 meters per second reboost. This reboost provided phasing for 33 Soyuz landing and 35 Soyuz launch.
Previous Status (05/07/13)
Robonaut Taskboard/Tele-ops: Following yesterday’s procedures review and camcorder setup, today Cassidy and Marshburn retrieved Robonaut and supporting hardware, installed Robonaut to a seat track and connected the cables for powered/commanded operations. Today and tomorrow will be the 3rd 2-day session of these activities. The Robonaut Tele-operation System is used to demonstrate the ability to effectively control Robonaut from the ISS. The research objective is to evaluate this control method in terms of its ability to perform tasks as well as measure the time necessary to complete the defined tasks. This capability will need to be developed to support future operations of Robonaut in the EVA environment as well as certain Intravehicular Activity (IVA) situations.
On-Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Descent Training: Hadfield, Romanenko and Marshburn performed the 2nd of 2 Soyuz descent drills in preparation for their return to Earth on 33 Soyuz scheduled for May 13, 2013.
Capillary Flow Experiments (CFE) Vane Gap 2 (VG2) Test Operations: Cassidy set up hardware and performed a session of the CFE-2 Interior Corner Flow (ICF)-9 experiment. On completion, he dismantled and stowed the hardware. CFE is a suite of fluid physics experiments that investigate capillary flows and flows of fluids in containers with complex geometries. Results will improve current computer models that are used by designers of low gravity fluid systems and may improve fluid transfer systems on future spacecraft.
European Space Agency (ESA) NightPod Experiment: Hadfield performed a firmware upgrade and conducted a session of this experiment, which investigates improvements to digital photography for Earth observations at night by using long exposure time and compensating for the relative motion of the ISS and Earth. Scenario’s include cities at night, vegetation fires at night, visual analysis of maritime traffic / road traffic, volcano activity at night, urban pollution, squid fishing at night and day/night transitions.
Robotic Refueling Mission (RRM) Operations: Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and began Day 3 of the RRM Tertiary Task Ops. Video scrolling issues were seen again with the Wire Cutting Tool (WCT) camera video. Ground controllers worked with their Ku System experts to troubleshoot the issue in order to try to provide an acceptable view for the planned Test Port Panel (TPP) task ops. While that troubleshooting was in work, robotics controllers continued with completing the Torque Set Adapter (TSA) task. Using the TSA attached to the Safety Cap Tool (SCT) on Arm 1, the uncaged screw, unfastened during Day 2 ops, was refastened. This completed the TSA task set. The Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dextrous Manipulator (SPDM) were then reconfigured into position for the Test Port Panel (TPP) task. At this position, the quality of the tool camera video was assessed to be acceptable to continue with the TPP task. The Wire Cutting Tool (WCT) attached to Arm 2 was used to cut the Multi-Layer Insulation (MLI) tape on the first of three sides of the panel. At the start of the attempt to cut the second side of the panel, the MLI was ripped. The SPDM was maneuvered to a park position and operations were ended for the day. The RRM team will assess the situation and determine if this task can be continued on Day 4.

