
Gene, Immune and Cellular Responses to Single and Combined Space Flight Conditions – A (Triplelux-A): Cristoforetti continued operations for run two of two of Triplelux-A. She installed the Experiment Container (EC) in the Biolab Left Rotor (Rotor L) and activated the run. Triplelux-A uses a rat macrophage cell line to investigate and compare the ability of macrophages to kill pathogens under normal gravity and microgravity conditions.  The goal is to gain a better understanding of immune suppression in spaceflight.
Osteocytes and Mechanomechano-transduction (Osteo-4): Cristoforetti transferred the Osteo-4 locker from EXpedite PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 8 to SpaceX-6 (SpX-6) Dragon vehicle for return.  The contents of the Osteo-4 trays are currently stowed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and will be transferred just prior to unberth of SpX-6.  Following the relocation of the Osteo-4 locker, she relocated the EXPRESS locker stowed in EXPRESS Rack 7 in the now open slot on EXPRESS Rack 8, returning both racks to their nominal configuration.
Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM): Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to complete a free space checkout of the Visible Inspection Poseable Invertebrate Robot (VIPIR) Tool.  VIPIR was then stowed in RRM and SSRMS/SPDM were moved to a park position. This completes RRM transfer operations with all objectives met, and one day ahead of schedule.  RRM was installed on the JEM airlock slide table and the table has been retracted.
Radiation Area Monitors (RAM) Retrieval: Earlier this morning Virts retrieved 23 RAMs which were placed in various locations throughout the ISS. These RAMs arrived on 41S, November 2014, and are scheduled to return on 41S.
On Board Training (OBT): In preparation for 41S undock, currently scheduled for May 13, Cristoforetti and Shkaplerov completed the first session of Soyuz descent training.
Node 3 (N3) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Bed Remove & Replace (R&R): Following yesterday’s procedure review and equipment gather, Virts and Kelly removed the CDRA chassis and R&Rd Air Selector Valves (ASV) 104 and 106. Tomorrow Virts will remove and replace both Adsorbent/Desorbent (AD/DES) beds. While maintenance is being performed on the N3 CDRA CO2 removal is being performed by the Vozdukh, Lab CDRA and AMINE Swingbed.
Reboost:  The ISS is scheduled to perform a reboost using the 58P 8R&D thrusters at Wednesday May 6 00:15 am CDT.  The planned delta-v is 1.34 m/s with a 12 minute 17 second burn time.  The purpose of the reboost is to set up phasing requirements for 41S landing.

