
Crew Half-Duty Day: Today was a half duty day for the USOS crew following a week of CDRA operations and activities associated with SpX-6 unberthing, currently scheduled for May 21.
Gene, Immune and Cellular Responses to Single and Combined Space Flight Conditions – A (Triplelux-A):  Cristoforetti closed out the Triplelux-A experiment today. She unstowed and removed the Experiment Container (EC) from Biolab, removed the EC Handling Mechanism (HM) Interface and photo documented the Interface bags, then retrieved the Automatic Ambient Stowage (AAS).  All hardware was then stowed per the plan. Triplelux-A uses a rat macrophage cell line to investigate and compare the ability of macrophages to kill pathogens under normal gravity and microgravity conditions.  The goal is to gain a better understanding of immune suppression in spaceflight.
Rodent Research-2 Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (RR-2 CASIS): Virts and Kelly performed gather and setup for Monday’s RR-2 sample collection, the third of four collections.  The crew configured the Bone Densitometer, as well as the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  The primary objective of this research is to monitor the effects of the space environment on the musculoskeletal and neurological systems of mice as model organisms of human health and disease.
Skin-B:  Cristoforetti repeated the Skin-B activity performed earlier this week (Flight Day 150 session), having found a missing cable. She performed Corneometer (measuring the hydration level of the stratus coreum, or outer layer of the skin), Tewameter (skin barrier function measurement), and Visioscan (skin surface topography) measurements in support of the Skin-B experiment. The Skin-B investigation aims to improve the understanding of skin aging which is slow on Earth but greatly accelerated in space. This will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general.
Node 3 (N3) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Operations: Yesterday Virts and Kelly completed N3 CDRA reassembly and installed CDRA back in the rack.  Today the crew completed maintenance by reconnecting the power/data and fluid lines. The ground attempted to activate CDRA with no joy following the crew’s activity.   Error messages were received during an Active Built-in-Test (ABIT).   Ground teams are investigating the ABIT error messages.  Until the N3 CDRA is recovered, Vozdukh, Lab CDRA and Amine Swing Bed will continue to remove CO2.
Dragon Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued loading return cargo and trash into the Dragon vehicle. As of tonight’s crew report we are approximately 70% complete with SpX-6 cargo operations. 

