
Payloads:
B Complex: The crew consolidated their B Complex supplements and stowed them in their personal ISS medical accessories kit (IMAK). B Complex tests the use of supplements to help address Spaceflight-Associated Neuro-ocular Syndrome (SANS). More information on the B Complex investigation can be found here.
Lumina: The crew power-cycled the Lumina hardware and transferred the science data to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for subsequent downlink. Lumina uses optical fibers which darken on exposure to radiation as detectors. More information on the Lumina fiber dosimeter experiment can be found here. 
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): The crew rotated the rack down and cleaned several air path filter screens including those on the Avionics Air Assembly (AAA), Electronics Box (E-Box), the High Definition (HD) Video Drawer, and the MSG Laptop Computer (MLC). More information on the MSG can be found here. 
Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor-2 (SCRAM-2): Using a Grab Sample Container (GSC), the crew collected an air sample close to the SCRAM-2 system. The GSC will later be returned to the ground for analysis and comparison with air samples processed by the SCRAM-2 unit. SCRAM-2 is a miniature mass spectrometer air analyzer that monitors the major constituents in the ISS cabin air.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations: Today, the crew performed several tasks in preparation for the upcoming set of US EVAs in June. The first task was to charge EVA batteries used in the Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs). Second was to build a “sock puppet” that will be used to wipe silicone off bolts during the upcoming Radio Frequency Group (RFG) 2.5 EVA. Third the annual EMU positive relief valve cycling was completed on EMUs 3009 and 3013. Lastly the crew took pictures of the EMU 3009 Power and Data Cable P1 connection as part of ongoing troubleshooting efforts.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Active Carbon/Ion Exchange (ACTEX) Filter R&R: As part of regular maintenance, the expired ACTEX filter in the Node 3 WHC Flush Water Jumper was replaced. The ACTEX filter in the WHC is responsible for removing iodine from the water supplied to it.
Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Deionizing (DI) Bed and Hydrogen Sensor Remove and Replace (R&R) Operations: Today, the crew replaced the DI Bed and Hydrogen Sensor and cleaned the Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) interfaces in the OGA. The purpose of the DI bed is to remove iodine from the water that is used to generate oxygen. The hydrogen sensor monitors the hydrogen content, a byproduct of the oxygen generation process, of the oxygen being released into the cabin.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations: Today, ground teams will be performing several SSRMS tasks. The first is to walk the SSRMS from the Lab to Node 2. Once there, an ISS external camera will be used to survey the SSRMS Booms. Finally, in preparation for the arrival of Boeing CFT, SSRMS will perform a survey of the International Docking Adaptor-F (IDA-f) seals.
Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) Adlink Mini PC R&R: To recover BPA data downlink and ground commanding, the BPA Adlink Mini PC was replaced. Prior to this R&R ground teams were able to confirm that BPA was operational by monitoring the power draw inside of Node 3. The BPA allows the US segment to recover an additional 10%, up to 97%, of water consumed by the crew.
Medical Contingency On Board Training (OBT): The Endeavour crew performed medical contingency training with support of ground teams. Emergency medical equipment was deployed and crew practiced CPR positioning to ensure familiarity with procedure execution should a medical emergency occur. These trainings allow the crew to practice medical procedures in the microgravity environment of ISS.
