
Fluid Shifts (Chibis): The crew performed the first of two days of their LBNP data collection.  This week, two crewmembers will each perform two days of LBNP data collection.  Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronauts’ eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
JAXA Mouse Mission: The crew transferred the mice from SpX-17 to the ISS and completed related activities to begin the experiment.  Six mice were transferred to the 1G area of the CBEF and six mice were transferred to the 0G part of the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility).  The Mouse Mission analyzes alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term (e.g. more than 30 days) space environment.  Data collected could suggest not only experimental information about mice in the space environment, but also fundamental information about humans exposed to a prolonged space environment. 
MicroAlgae:  The crew homogenized the culture bags to remove bubbles and deployed them. Microalgae Biosynthesis in Microgravity (MicroAlgae) studies the effects of microgravity on Haematococcus pluvialis, a tiny freshwater algae capable of producing a powerful antioxidant known as astaxanthin. It could provide a readily available dietary supplement to promote astronaut health on long-duration space exploration missions. This research was proposed by a community college student and alumna of the NASA Community College Aerospace Scholars (NCAS) program. 
MVP Cell-01:  The crew installed six experiment modules into the MVP facility and took photos.  The Cartilage–Bone–Synovium (CBS) Micro-Physiological System (MPS) Using the Multi-purpose Variable-G Platform (MVP) (MVP Cell-01) studies a disease called Post-traumatic Osteoarthritis, in which a traumatic joint injury may lead to arthritis after loss of cartilage and bone. The ability of potential drugs to prevent the progression of this disease is tested on Earth and in space. The MVP facility is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others.  It includes internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity.
Nano Antioxidants:  The crew installed of twelve Nano Antioxidants Experiment Containers in the Kubik 5 facility and started the experiment run. The aim of the Nano Antioxidants investigation is to research innovative approaches for cellular stimulation to counteract the negative effects of long-term microgravity on the musculoskeletal system. There are numerous possible applications of this research project in other crucial social domains, such as healthcare of the elderly and of people with muscle atrophy disorders, through the implementation of new therapeutic strategies in the treatment of diseases involving oxidative stress as causing factor. 
STaARS (Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems) Bioscience-3: The crew installed six BioScience Experiment Containers into the STaARS Facility for processing.  Later in the day and according to the nominal experiment plan, three of these containers were removed and placed in -80 deg C cold stowage. The Spaceflight Effects on Vascular Endothelial and Smooth Muscle Cell Process (STaARS BioScience-3) investigation contributes to a greater understanding of cardiovascular disease (CVD) through the study of transcriptomics of vascular cells. Upon return from spaceflight, crew members often display alterations in their cardiovascular systems, similar to those suffering from CVD. The goal of this work is to elucidate the mechanism of vascular cell damage in the space environment by exposing vascular cells to spaceflight.
TangoLab- Mission-11:  As part of TL Mission 11, the crew attached the appropriate cubes onto two cards and installed them into the TangoLab-2 unit. The cubes installed were PENN_TOC01 (Lung Host Defense in Microgravity), TNGO_CCM04 (Cell Culture Module Fluid Behavior Demonstration), and UFLA_DEP01 (Electrodeposition Observation in Microgravity).  TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS.  Of note, the Lung Host Defense in Microgravity investigation uses organ-on-a-chip technology to create three-dimensional models of the lung and bone marrow from living human cells. Researchers infect the artificial organs and compare how lung cells respond and how white blood cells mobilize from the bone marrow into the blood stream in microgravity versus on Earth.
Dragon Cargo Transfer Status: Following SpX-17 arrival yesterday, the crew started transferring cargo and completed ~7.5 hours of operations. Today the crew removed the Center Stack, then retrieved and unpacked the Dragon Cargo Transfer Bags (CTB) and Double Coldbags (DCB). 

