
New Status: 
Spinal: Hadfield and Marshburn conducted their 3rd and final session of this experiment with Cassidy as operator and remote guidance from ground teams. Spinal Ultrasound uses ground and space-based studies to characterize spinal changes during and after spaceflight.  Ground based pre- and post-flight Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and high fidelity ultrasound, combined with in-flight ultrasound will be used to characterize and assign a mission health risk to microgravity-associated spinal alterations for back pain and potential injury. This research will determine the accuracy of MRI and musculoskeletal ultrasound in characterizing the anatomy of the vertebral unit and develop novel imaging and training methodologies.
On-Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Descent Training: Hadfield and Romanenko performed the first of 2 Soyuz descent drills. This morning they received a briefing from ground teams on return cargo stowage plan and cargo list. They then reviewed the descent timeline. Later Hadfield, Romanenko and Marshburn performed a Sokol Suit leak check. These activities are in preparation for their return to Earth on 33S scheduled for May 14.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT) Photos: Cassidy checked the setup of the D2Xs Camera, SB-800 Flash, and laptop. He then set up the BCAT-3 Slow Growth Sample Module for a multi-flash-angle photography session for BCAT-3, 4, and, 6 hardware and then photographed the sample manually with specific flash angles using the Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School (EarthKAM) software. The next BCAT operations are scheduled for May 13.
Robonaut Operational Review: Cassidy and Marshburn performed a procedures review and set up the camcorder in preparation for the 3rd 2-day Taskboard/Teleops session scheduled for tomorrow and Wednesday.
Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Air Selector Valve (ASV) 102 Remove & Replace (R&R): On Saturday, Cassidy completed a procedures review of the Node 3 CDRA valve R&R scheduled for this Wednesday. He will be assisting Marshburn with the task.
Previous Status (05/03/13)
improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG)-1 and -2 Installation: Commander (CDR) Hadfield upgraded PEHG-2 Wednesday and PEHG-1 today by removing the legacy PEHGs and installing two new iPEHGs. The new iPEHGs have enhanced configuration capabilities over the legacy PEHG, improved Gateway modes of operation and improved network protocols to support integration into Joint Station Joint Station LAN (JSL), faster medium rate and high rate data link, and additional accessible channels.  The activation and checkout of both iPEHGs were successful.
Integrated Cardiovascular (ICV) Ambulatory Monitoring:  With assistance from Hadfield, Marshburn initiated his 5th and final ICV data take session.  He donned the Human Research Facility (HRF) Holter Monitor 2 (HM2) to record Electrocardiogram (ECG) data, 2 Actiwatch Spectrums (waist & ankle) to record activity levels, and the Cardiopres equipment to continuously monitor blood pressure. This session had dedicated data takes for both resting and exercising periods. Integrated Cardiovascular quantifies the extent, time course and clinical significance of cardiac atrophy (decrease in the size of the heart muscle) associated with long-duration space flight,  to identify the mechanisms of this atrophy and the functional consequences for crewmembers who spend extended periods of time in space.
On Board Training (OBT) ISS Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) Drill: Cassidy, Vinogradov and Misurkin participated in this on-board training/drill which gives crewmembers the opportunity to work as a team in resolving a simulated medical emergency onboard ISS. The training refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment use, and procedures.
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Microscope Troubleshooting: After powering up the Fluids Integration Rack (FIR) and LMM for science ops on April 15, it was discovered that the microscope’s stage could not be moved up to properly position it for science operations. Cassidy inspected the LMM for potential obstruction that prevented the LMM X-Y Stage from moving up and down, and cleaned the ACE (Advanced Colloids Experiment) sample and objective lens.  He also checked for obstruction or damage while removing all hardware inside the LMM Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC).  After the LMM was reassembled ground operators were able to move the microscope’s stage.  

Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) Operations: Today the Safety Cap Tool SCT was used to retrieve the Torque Set Adapter (TSA), which  was used to unfasten one caged screw and then unfasten one uncaged screw. Afterwards the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) were maneuvered to a park position, ready for Day 3 of the RRM Tertiary Tasks Ops beginning Monday. MSS System performance was nominal.

