
Payloads:
Fluids Integrated Rack/Flow Boiling and Condensation Experiment (FIR/FBCE) – The crew searched for and located an FBCE Test Module power cable. This cable was removed last year, but not found in the FIR hardware returned to the ground on SpX-29. More information on the FIR facility can be found here.
KEyence Research Microscope Testbed (KERMIT) Vortex Mixer Checkout: The crew installed batteries and confirmed the KERMIT Vortex Mixer was operating properly. This mixer will be used to support future science activities. More information on the KERMIT facility can be found here.
Omics Archive: The crew gathered biological samples in support of the Omics Archive investigation. More information on Omics Archive can be found here.
Systems:
Water Resupply System (WRS) Catalytic (Cat) Reactor R&R: The crew successfully completed a smooth WRS Cat Reactor R&R, with the task being completed 45 minutes ahead of schedule. The ground team then commanded a flush of the new Cat Reactor. While reviewing telemetry data, it was discovered that the incorrect Cat Reactor was installed in the WRS. The system is currently in a safe configuration with a Failure Investigation Team (FIT) meeting scheduled to determine forward plans.
On-orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA) with KUDUwave Software Setup and Test: The crew performed a hearing test using an OOHA Headset and KUDUwave software. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Gas Trap Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew replaced the EMU Gas Trap on EMU 3009. The EMU Gas Trap removes particulate contamination from the water flow to the EMU Water Pump and concentrates and directs free gas in the coolant loop to the EMU Water Separator.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): As part of routine maintenance, the crew R&Red the WHC UR and IF. After the R&R, the crew cleaned the power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance activities.
NG-20 Cygnus Cargo Transfer Operations: Today, the crew performed cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-20 cargo vehicle. The crew is loading the cargo vehicle with items slated for disposal in preparation for its departure from station in July.
