
New Status: 
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG) Installation: Commander (CDR) Hadfield upgraded PEHG-2 (in LAB1D2) by removing the legacy PEHG and installing the new iPEHG. IPEGH-1 installation is scheduled for this Friday, May 3. The new iPEHG will have enhanced configuration capabilities over the existing PEHG, improved Gateway modes of operation and improved network protocols to support integration into Joint Station Local Area Network (LAN) (JSL). Improvements include:
Current PEHG                          New iPEHG
Medium Rate Data Link              -10 Mbps                                  -100 Mbps
-20 channels per PEHG (w/        -23 channels per iPEHG (w/
Some unused)                          all accessible)
High Rate Data Link                   -10 Mbps                                  -100 Mbps
Environmental Health System (EHS) – Sound Level Meter (SLM) Setup and Operations: Hadfield conducted an acoustic survey using an SLM to measure the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS. He then transferred the data to a laptop for downlink for Ground analysis. The plan includes measurements in the Service Module (SM), Node 3 (N3), Mini Research Module (MRM)-1 and twelve sound measurements of Treadmill 2 (T2) operating at various speeds.  These measurements verify that the crew is not exposed to harmful levels.
SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device): Cassidy assembled and set up the hardware, then he, Hadfield, and Marshburn performed this activity in support of the Nutrition experiment. SLAMMD provides an accurate means of determining the mass of the crew in microgravity. The guiding principle of SLAMMD follows that of Newton’s Second Law of Motion, F=ma (i.e., force is equal to mass times acceleration).  For the Human Research Facility (HRF) SLAMMD, the force is generated by two springs inside the SLAMMD 4 Process Unit (PU) drawer. The acceleration used in calculating the mass is actually a calculated average acceleration with regression analysis. The acceleration is measured through the use of a precise optical instrument which detects the position versus time trajectory of the SLAMMD guide arm and a micro controller which collects the raw data and provides the precise timing. The final computation is done via portable laptop computer with SLAMMD unique software.
European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Belt Replace: Marshburn conducted an On-Board Training (OBT) review, prepared the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) and replaced belts on Rotors A and B. He also cleaned internal debris on both centrifuges.
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE)-2 Vane Gap: Cassidy completed a procedures review and conducted a session of this experiment. Studies from CFE-2 may serve to demonstrate how liquids can be separated from gas in the absence of gravity. This is a key procedure for water purification systems in microgravity.
Periodic Drops on Joint Station Local Area Network (JSL) (Orbital Communications Adaptor (OCA): Since April 20, there have been periodic dropouts on the OCA network forward link that last from 10 seconds to 5 minutes. Yesterday, the crew reported that the frequency and duration of the dropouts had increased to the point that Internet Protocol (IP) Phone was no longer usable. The team performed several troubleshooting steps to try to resolve the dropouts. The United States Laboratory (USL) Edge Router was rebooted with no effect. The team then initiated a constant ping of the KU Communication Unit from the USL Edge Router and rebooted the KU Communication Unit network card. Since this time, no further dropouts have been seen and the crew was able to use IP Phone successfully overnight.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) Operations:  Tuesday, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite (WS) 4 to WS2. They then maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into position and grappled the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator System (SPDM) and released it from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 2. The Robotics Ground Controllers then maneuvered the SSRMS and SPDM to the start position for the RRM Tertiary Tasks Operations. Ground controllers also performed SPDM Diagnostics and Checkouts today in preparation for these operations.
Ground controllers tonight will be beginning the Day 1 of the RRM Tertiary Task Ops. They will maneuver the SSRMS into position and use the SPDM to unstow the Wire Cutting Tool (WCT) and the Safety Cap Tool (SCT) before reconfiguring the SSRMS to the forward face of the RRM to stow a safety cap, currently contained within the SCT, into the Safety Cap Receptacle (SCR). Once the safety cap is safely stowed, the SCT will then be used to retrieve the Sub Miniature Version A-Adapter (SMA-A) in preparation for the ops to take place on Day 2, scheduled for tomorrow.
Previous Status (04/30/13)
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite (WS) 4 to WS2.  They then maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into position, grappled the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator System (SPDM), and released it from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 2.  At the time of this report the Robotics Ground Controllers are starting to maneuver the SSRMS and SPDM to the start position for the Robotics Refueling Mission Tertiary Tasks Operations that will be performed tomorrow and Thursday, as well as Monday and Wednesday of next week.  They will also perform SPDM Diagnostics and Checkouts today in preparation for these operations

Spinal Ultrasound: FE-3 Cassidy completed his first of three planned Spinal Ultrasound scans with Marshburn as the operator and with remote guidance from the ground team. Spinal Ultrasound aims to use ground and space-based studies to characterize spinal changes during and after spaceflight.  Ground based pre- and post-flight Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and high fidelity ultrasound, combined with in-flight ultrasound will be used to characterize and assign a mission health risk to microgravity-associated spinal alterations for back pain and potential injury. This research will determine the accuracy of MRI and musculoskeletal ultrasound in characterizing the anatomy of the vertebral unit and develop novel imaging and training methodologies.
Crew Choice Ultrasound (CCU): Marshburn conducted carotid, hand, appendix and bladder scans with assistance from the ground team.
Vascular Experiment: Hadfield performed a blood draw, processed the samples and stowed them in the Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). This was the 2nd of 2 planned sessions. The Vascular experiment investigates the effects of long-duration spaceflight on the cardiovascular system of astronauts on board the International Space Station (ISS). The changes brought by this unique environment could impact the vascular system and accelerate the stiffening of blood vessels that parallels the aging process.
Columbus (COL) Water Pump Assembly (WPA) Troubleshooting: On January 13, 2013, a Thermal Control System (TCS) WPA1 to WPA2 switch over activity was scheduled in support of Water On/Off Valve (WOOV) 1 & 2 periodic cycling. Attempts to start WPA2 were unsuccessful and COL is currently operating on WPA1 with no redundancy. Cassidy performed the troubleshooting procedure but the WPA2 remains non-functional.  COL continues to operate using WPA1.

