
Payloads
AC Touch: Per standard procedure, the crew touched both the coated and uncoated coupons for this long-term investigation. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests is an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems, as well as create the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space for approximately six months and then will return to Earth for analysis.
Celestial Immunity: Today’s goal was to perform the first sampling activities for the cell cultures in a 24-well culture plate.  However, it was discovered that the fluids in the wells had spilled outside their designated well volumes, which mixed and invalidated the science capture. The team is discussing a forward plan and impacts. This project seeks to gain a broad understanding of how gravity affects overall human immune function and potentially uncover novel pathways of immune function that can be exploited to develop better vaccines and immunobiologics for human use. The project will build on earlier studies that evaluated lymphocyte (a type of white blood cell) function in microgravity. The project will also evaluate whether gravity-regulated immune pathways are affected by age, by examining cells from both young adult and elderly donors in parallel.
ManD:  As the next step in the troubleshooting of the Manufacturing Device (ManD), the crew exchanged the feedstock canister with another canister and manually fed the feedstock filament into the extruder area.  The Manufacturing Device enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the ManD printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. ManD is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymer feedstock, including engineered plastics.
SUBSA (Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules): The crew installed the SUBSA experiment hardware into the Microgravity Science Glovebox.  The first SUBSA investigation to be performed will be the BRAINS investigation.  BRazing of Aluminum alloys IN Space (SUBSA-BRAINS) examines differences in capillary flow, interface reactions, and bubble formation during solidification of brazing alloys in microgravity. Brazing technology bonds similar materials (such as an aluminum alloy to aluminum) or dissimilar ones (such as aluminum alloy to ceramics) at temperatures above 450°C. It is a potential tool for construction of human space habitats and manufactured systems as well as a repair tool for damage from micrometeoroids or space debris.
Systems
Port Crew Quarters (CQ) Single Fan Failure Troubleshooting – Crew performed additional troubleshooting designed to isolate the cause of the Port CQ Single Fan Failure Caution that has been in alarm since Saturday, May 1.  The activity disconnected the Exhaust Airflow Sensor and repowered the rack to determine whether the Single Fan Failure Caution alarmed (indicating that the issue is in the exhaust leg of airflow) or the Dual Fan Failure Warning alarmed (indicating that the issue is in the intake leg of airflow).  Following disconnection of the sensor, the Single Fan Failure Caution returned upon rack repower, narrowing the failure to the exhaust leg.  The sensor was reconnected, and the team will discuss further steps to isolate this to either a fan or a sensor problem.
Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Braking Band Replacement – In order to restore CEVIS Ergometer S/N 1002 as a fully functional on-orbit spare, the crew replaced the worn braking band, inspected and cleaned around the braking band and performed a brief checkout.  This ergometer was previously installed in CEVIS and was removed after braking band performance degraded to the point where excessive sticking was causing workload drift in the data.
NiH2 Battery Disposal Robotic Operations – Ground controllers completed operations to remove the NiH2 Battery Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) from External Stowage Platform 3 (ESP-3) Site 6 and install the NiH2 battery and FRAM on Cygnus Site 1 for disposal.  As part of these operations, the Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite 2 to Worksite 3.  During FRAM mating to Cygnus Site 1, robotic operators applied brakes early to prevent SPDM Arm 1 elbow pitch from entering a singularity, which could cause unpredicted arm motion.  Procedures target 147N steady state force to ensure a good seat of the FRAM prior to driving bolts, but the early braking resulted in a 120N force.  Teams agreed to proceed with an attempt to fasten bolts, which was successful, and the battery and FRAM were installed nominally on Cygnus Site 1.

