
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The crew replaced Nitrogen/Oxygen manifold bottles in support of the continuing s-Flames investigation. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity.
Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD)#13: The crew removed the J-SSOD#13 hardware from the JEM Airlock slide table. The JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the International Space Station (ISS). The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD, including satellite install cases with small satellites, is installed on the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) by crew members, it is passed through the JEM airlock for retrieval, positioning, and deployment by the JEMRMS.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2): The crew retrieved all the RADIN-N2 dosimeters from the Russian crew and installed them in the Node1-O3 rack front.  The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
RED-EYE: The crew restowed the RED-EYE hardware back into the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). The hardware was temporarily stowed in the Columbus module during the Astrobee operations in the JEM. The RED-EYE program develops and demonstrates technologies which increase the utility of low-cost microsatellites.
Systems
Northrop Grumman 13 (NG-13) Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew continued to perform Cygnus cargo operations today. Ground teams estimate ~2.5 hours of cargo operations remain prior to Cygnus departure, currently planned for May 11th.

