ISS On-Orbit Status 05/08/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday - crew off-duty.



 

At wake-up, FE-1 Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the currently running Russian Elektron O2 generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).   [FE-1 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]



 

Also after wake-up, FE-6 Creamer &amp; FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson continued their new week-long session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), TJ’s 5th, Tracy’s 2nd, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]



 

Skvortsov did the daily morning check on the TBU Universal Bioengineering Thermostat container and reported its current internal temperature to TsUP-Moscow. 



 

The station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]



 

As part of the uborka house cleaning, FE-1 conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).



 

FE-3 Kornienko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.,



 

Mikhail also checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP. 





As a VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activity, i.e., on his free time, Soichi conducted the JAXA EPO (Educational Payload Operation) program “Letter”, for which he verified messages on the MLT (MMA {Microgravity Measurement Apparatus} Laptop Terminal), uplinked in a JAXA Letter via ICS (Inter-Orbit Communication System), then took photos of the crew and Earth for downloading on MLT and SSC (Station Support Computer).



 

At ~8:50am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP/Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.



 

At ~10:20am, the three Russian cosmonauts filmed a video for a series of scenes showing cosmonauts living and working onboard the ISS RS (Russian Segment).    [The activity is commissioned by Roskosmos in cooperation with the Program “Vremia” (Time) on TV Channel One, to prepare a series of events about Russian cosmonauts working on-board ISS Russian Segment.  The videos are being recorded in HDV (High Definition) format, shot by one of the cosmonauts, with Kotov, Skvortsov &amp; Kornienko being interviewed and also showing US crewmembers.] 



 

At ~11:30am, the ISS crew held a teleconference with crewmembers of STS-132/Atlantis/ULF-4, due to visit them on 5/16.



 

At ~12:00pm, Caldwell-Dyson, Noguchi &amp; Creamer conferred with ground specialists and STS-132 crewmembers to discuss an uplinked ULF-4 Cargo Transfer Choreography outline.     [Cargo Master will be CDR Ken Ham, backed up by PLT Tony Antonelli.] 



 

At ~1:01pm, Caldwell-Dyson powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 1:06am conducted a ham radio session with participants at Space Day (Family Day) festivities at the Smithsonian Institution, National Air and Space Museum, Washington, DC, which include presentations (by astronaut Dan Tani and retired astronaut Jay Apt) and a number of hands-on projects for visitors.   [ http://www.spaceday.org  Space Day: May 7; Space Day Family Day: May 8.]



 

FE-2 &amp; FE-3 were scheduled for their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Misha at ~8:30am, Tracy at ~4:10pm EDT.



 

The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3). 




