
Payloads
Astrobee/ROAM: The crew configured the JEM to support the Astrobee ops, the appropriate experiment support software was loaded to the Astrobee free-fliers, and a series of ROAM experimental operations was performed.  Many tests were performed successfully and good data was obtained.  Relative Operations for Autonomous Maneuvers (ROAM) demonstrates processes for a robotic craft to rendezvous with debris in space. Space debris includes satellites that could be repaired or taken out of orbit, but many of these objects are tumbling, which makes rendezvous and docking challenging. ROAM uses the space station’s Astrobee robots to observe and understand how targets tumble and uses this information to plan ways to safely reach them.
Celestial Immunity: In preparation for the experimental sessions, the crew gathered the appropriate hardware, configured the Life Science Glovebox, and transferred thawing-assist items to SABL to condition.  This project seeks to gain a broad understanding of how gravity affects overall human immune function and potentially uncover novel pathways of immune function that can be exploited to develop better vaccines and immunobiologics for human use. The project will build on earlier studies that evaluated lymphocyte (a type of white blood cell) function in microgravity. The project will also evaluate whether gravity-regulated immune pathways are affected by age by examining cells from young adult and elderly donors in parallel.
GRASP: The crew performed 3 versions of the GRASP experiment in the quasi-free-floating configuration.  The ground teams reported the sessions appeared to go very well.  The purpose of the Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance:  Reaching and Grasping (GRASP) investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
MSG Work Volume Clean: In preparation for the next user of the MSG, the crew cleaned several threaded holes.  This was performed due to water that was released from a previous MSG user that may have resulted in deposits in these threaded areas.  The Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) is a rack-level payload facility located in the U.S. Laboratory module on the International Space Station (ISS). MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present. MSG is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads.
Story Time from Space – 8:  In preparation for the experiment, the crew installed the Thermal Balance experiment software on an appropriate SSC (Station Support Computer).  Story Time From Space (STFS) combines literacy and science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subjects with basic science demonstrations. The Story Time From Space-8 Heat Transfer Demo uses a Sun-Earth-Space model to demonstrate concepts of radiative heat transfer. It is performed on the International Space Station by an astronaut and videotaped, along with a reading of the book Give Me Some Space, and the videos and educational materials are made available on the STFS website.
Transparent Alloys:  Following the completion of the Transparent Alloys series of experiment runs, the crew removed the hardware to prepare for the next user of the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) facility.  The Transparent Alloys study is a group of several investigations, with the METCOMP being the most recent to be performed.  This investigation conducts research on layered structures in peritectic systems by in-situ observation.  Investigations of peritectic metallic systems show a wide range of possible microstructures. Bands, islands, tree-like microstructures and coupled growth appear when the primary and peritectic phase solidify in a competitive manner.  To improve the understanding of appearing morphologies during solidification, transparent model systems with a plastic phase are quite attractive.
Systems
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and used the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to stow the Robotics Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) in the Tool Holster Assembly (THA). Ground Controllers then translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 7 (WS 7) to WS 2.
Cupola Bump Shield Disassembly: The crew removed two Cupola Side Window Bump Shield doors. The doors will be returned to the ground where teams will analysis the effects of radiation on the materials.
Restraints & Mobility Aids (R&MA) Audit: The crew audited two CTBs searching for spare Multi-Use Brackets, Flexible Brackets, and Laptop Desks. Broken Multi-Use Brackets will be stowed separately for return to the ground.

