
Payloads:
Celestial Immunity: The crew performed activities related to the inoculation, treatment injection, and sample collection for the Celestial Immunity cultures.  This project seeks to gain a broad understanding of how gravity affects overall human immune function and potentially uncover novel pathways of immune function that can be exploited to develop better vaccines and immunobiologics for human use. The project will build on earlier studies that evaluated lymphocyte (a type of white blood cell) function in microgravity. The project will also evaluate whether gravity-regulated immune pathways are affected by age by examining cells from both young adult and elderly donors in parallel.
DOSIS-3D:  The crew installed the DOSIS-3D main box in its intended configuration and took photos of the suite of 11 DOSIS dosimeters. International Space Station crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation which can be harmful to their health. Dose Distribution Inside the International Space Station – 3D (DOSIS-3D) uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS.
Food Acceptability: Using the data collection tool an available Station Support Computer (SSC), the crew filled out a Food Acceptability Survey. This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system. Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
SBC-2: The crew powered up the recently installed SBC-2 experiment hardware.  Installation of this experiment hardware was delayed due to a tool incompatibility which was recently resolved.  Spaceborne Computer-2 High Performance Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Computer System on the ISS (Spaceborne Computer-2, or just SBC-2) builds upon the successes of the previous Spaceborne Computer, exploring how commercial off-the-shelf computer systems can advance exploration by processing data significantly faster in space with edge computing and artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities. SBC-2 further tests additional techniques for recovering or mitigating errors in the extreme environment of unprotected solar radiation, galactic cosmic radiation (GCR) and other events. SBC-2 has an anticipated 24 to 36-month mission duration.
SUBSA (Solidification Using a Baffle in Sealed Ampoules): As a continuation of the BRAINS investigation, the crew exchanged the calibration ampoule for the first science ampoule in the SUBSA. BRazing of Aluminum alloys IN Space (SUBSA-BRAINS) examines differences in capillary flow, interface reactions, and bubble formation during solidification of brazing alloys in microgravity. Brazing technology bonds similar materials (such as an aluminum alloy to aluminum) or dissimilar ones (such as aluminum alloy to ceramics) at temperatures above 450°C. It is a potential tool for construction of human space habitats and manufactured systems as well as repair of damage from micrometeoroids or space debris.
Systems:
Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Setup Node 3: Crew set up the Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Fluid Control Pump Assembly (FCPA) in order to refill the Node 3 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) and Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) Accumulators. After FSS operations were completed, the FSS FCPA and Jumpers were be drained and purged. This procedure has occurred now that the Node 3 Port Endcone has been cleared of stowage.
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Pump ORU Maintenance: Crew will inject a thermal expansion air bubble into the pump to protect Pump ORU S/N 4 and allow for removal of a Thermal Expansion Device needed for a different ORU. The crew will then purge the OGS Hydrogen Sensor with dry oxygen to prevent the possibility of condensation on the sensor when OGS is unpowered. Then the crew will Remove S/N 1 OGS Pump ORU and Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Rack Electrical Harness P-Clamp, and lastly replacing the Pump ORU with S/N 6.
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): The crew completed Max CEVIS today which is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. The test is performed every 90 days and upon the crew’s arrival and departure from the ISS.
DOSIS Main Box Repositioning and Photo Audit: Crew reinstalled the DOSIS Main Box in its proper configuration. Crew also was asked to take pictures of eleven dosimeters (ten Passive Detector Packs and one Triple Detector Pack) that are deployed in the ColumbusModule.
EDV Changeout for UTS: Crew swapped out the offload EDV and the mainline EDV, so that Urine Transfer System (UTS) offloading can take place.

