
Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer 8 (J-SSOD#8):  Today the crew depressurized and vented the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock in support of J-SSOD#8 operations this week.  The launch of small satellites from the J-SSOD#8 deployers is planned for Friday, May 11th.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): After retrieving the RaDI-N hardware from a Russian crewmember, a USOS crewmember deployed the eight Space Bubble Detectors in the US Laboratory module. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation measures neutron radiation levels in the ISS. Bubble detectors are designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF):  The crew exchanged the sample holders and installed a new sample cartridge within ELF to prepare for upcoming ground commanded operations.  ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
At Home in Space:  The crew completed a questionnaire for the At Home in Space investigation. This Canadian Space Agency investigation assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the spacecraft by creating a home in space. At Home in Space also uses questionnaires to investigate individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations:  Today the crew reviewed the EVA Systems Briefing Package for the upcoming US EVA Pump Flow Control System (PFCS) relocate EVA currently planned on 16-May.  The briefing contains crew reminders, an emergency briefing, helpful tips, and specific procedures for the upcoming EVA; this information was reviewed, and crew questions addressed, during this afternoon’s Procedures Conference with EVA ground specialists.  After completion of this conference, the crew configured EVA tools per the briefing package and continued with Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Batteries (LLB) charging operations. 
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations: Last night Robotic Ground Controllers performed the data gathering for characterization of the SSRMS Latching End Effector A (LEE-A) Force-Moment Sensor (FMS), on both SSRMS string.  They performed first the Thermal Drift Filter Checkout and the Wrist Roll (WR) Compensation Checkout while unloaded on prime string. They next maneuvered SSRMS as required to unstow Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and performed the same data gathering while loaded with SPDM.  They then swap SSRMS string to redundant and performed Thermal Drift Filter Checkout and the Wrist Roll (WR) Compensation Checkout while SSRMS was loaded with SPDM and then unloaded after having stowed SPDM. Data will be reviewed and will help to decide if software configuration file update is required.  MSS performance was nominal. 
This evening, Robotics Ground Controllers will begin operations to configure for the PFCS relocate EVA. They will power up the system, walk off the SSRMS to Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF 3 and then unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). They will then perform a Mobile Transporter (MT) pre-translation survey and MT checkout before translating to Worksite (WS)8. 

