
Payloads:
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): The crew continued the inspections and water-management troubleshooting of the XROOTS experiment hardware with a goal of determining if the system is able to support its plant growth modules. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator-1 (GLACIER1): The crew assessed possible damage to one of the GLACIER sample trays and replaced the desiccants in the GLACIER1 unit.  Depending on the types of samples placed in the GLACIER, it can be used as a refrigerator or freezer with temperature capabilities of as warm as +4°C (39°F) and as cold as -160°C (-301°F). The crew can perform maintenance and monitor the hardware. The GLACIER can also be commanded and monitored from the ground.
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance:  Reaching and Grasping (GRASP): Several sessions of the GRASP seated science protocols were performed using the virtual reality headset. The purpose of the GRASP investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g. sight or hearing), encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
Systems:
Onboard Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Simulation: The full crew participated in a simulation to practice emergency responses based on information provided by simulated displays. They translated through ISS to appropriate response locations and practiced procedure execution and decision making based on cues from the simulator. Following the training, they conducted a review session with Houston and Moscow Control Centers.
Robotic Operations: Today, ground operators translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite 2 to Worksite 6 and performed a Mobile Servicing System (MSS) maneuver to walkoff the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the Node2 Payload Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) in preparation for the OFT-2 mission.
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Operations: Today, the crew setup the recycle tank to drain to the brine processor using the brine processor transfer hose. As part of the setup, the crew removed and installed a new brine bladder into the brine processor. The ground then performed the tank drain using the Urine Transfer System (UTS) and the crew changed out the offload EDV. Lastly, the crew configured the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) fill drain valve and connected the UTS transfer compressor hose for nominal processing operations.
Emergency Equipment Return to Nominal: The crew returned the emergency equipment that was once stowed in Crew-3 Endurance back to a long-term stowage configuration until it’s needed for Crew-5 arrival. As part of this activity, the crew audited the emergency items in order to give the ground team time to work any needed actions prior to Crew-5 arrival.

