
Payloads:
BioFabrication Facility (BFF): Following the cleaning print activities on Tuesday, the test print cassette and cleaning syringe were replaced inside the BFF. Using 3D biological printers to produce usable human organs has long been a dream of scientists and doctors around the globe. However, printing the tiny, complex structures found inside human organs, such as capillary structures, has proven difficult to accomplish in Earth’s gravity environment. To overcome this challenge, the BFF experiment is designed to print organ-like tissues in microgravity, acting as a steppingstone in a long-term plan to manufacture whole human organs in space using refined biological 3D printing techniques.
BioNutrients-2: The crew gathered the appropriate items, hydrated and agitated the Kefir BioNutrients-2 production bags, and then placed them in SABL-3 to incubate. One challenge to maintaining crew health on future long-duration space missions is supplying adequate nutrition. BioNutrients-2 tests using an on-demand system to produce specific quantities of key nutrients from yogurt, a fermented milk product known as kefir, and a yeast-based beverage. Samples return to Earth for analysis and comparison with identical samples grown on the ground.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction/Growth and Extinction Limit (CIR/SoFIE/GEL): In support of ongoing science, the crew gained access to the CIR and exchanged the experiment samples, igniter tip, and adsorber cartridge. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the CIR that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies by providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. The GEL experiment studies burning in microgravity, measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. Results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques, improving crew safety in future space facilities.
Manufacturing Device (ManD): In a continuation of the troubleshooting for ManD, the feedstock canister was exchanged and the feedstock strand was manually fed into the extruder mounting location. The Additive Manufacturing Facility (also known as AMF or ManD) enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the AMF that is installed into an EXPRESS Rack locker location. The AMF is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Systems:
SpaceX Crew Dragon Port Relocation Computer Based Training (CBT): In preparation for the Crew-6 Port Relocation, the crew completed 2 CBTs. First, the crew reviewed the Rendezvous and Departure CBT. Next, the crew reviewed the Port Relocation for ISS Crew CBT. On Saturday, May 6th, Steve, Woody, Sultan, and Andrey will ingress Crew Dragon Endeavor and relocate the vehicle from Node 2 Zenith to Node Forward.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Airlock Deconfiguration and Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Tool Stow: The crew deconfigured the Airlock following EVA operations and prepared EMUs and equipment for long-term stowage. The Manovacumeter, Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garments (LCVGs), Comm Caps, Wrist mirror, Cuff Checklists, and Helmet were all properly stowed. Next, the crew installed protective covers on parts of the EMU and removed EMU Li-Ion Batteries and Metox canisters. Finally, the crew gathered and stowed a sample tool deployed to dry out in the airlock.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Ultrasound Exams: The crew used the Ultrasound 2 device to perform Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) scans on each other. VTE is a condition that occurs when a blood clot forms in a vein. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams. However, this routine medical exam still utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. To ensure the safety and health of the crew, scans are performed periodically.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Stowage Activities: Following the completion of the Oxygen Generation System (OGS) maintenance activities yesterday, the crew restowed hardware to the designated locations per the stowage note. The OGA, which is part of the Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS), produces oxygen via electrolysis using iodinated water from the Water Processing Assembly (WPA). Next, the crew gathered tools and parts required for the Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) blower and Air Selector Valve (ASV) 103 Removal and Replace (R&R) scheduled for next week. CDRA uses a series of desiccant and adsorbent (molecular sieve) beds to selectively remove water vapor and CO2 from the cabin atmosphere through absorption.
