ISS On-Orbit Status 05/07/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – crew off duty.
 
Upon wake-up, FE-1 Samokutyayev performed the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> (oxygen) generator.      [Maxim Suraev installed these filters on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Alexandr inspects the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
FE-5 Nespoli continued his 5<sup>th</sup> (FD180) and final suite of sessions with the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.  Before sleeptime tonight, Paolo sets up the equipment for his NUTRITION/Repository/Pro K 24-hr urine collections starting tomorrow.  Also tomorrow, Cady Coleman will set up the hardware for Paolo’s ProK/Nutrition/Repository blood draw on Monday (5/9).       [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day.  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
FE-6 Coleman concluded her 4<sup>th </sup>(FD135) and final 24-hr ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity (~2:50pm EDT).   Data download from all devices to the HRF (Human Research Function) PC1 laptop will be scheduled later.     [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres/BP is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.]
 
The six-member crew joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).       ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of the uborka house cleaning, CDR, FE-1 &amp; FE-2 completed regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of the TsV2 fan screen in the FGB plus Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM (Service Module).
 
FE-2 Borisenko took the (currently) daily photographs of the BTKh-39 ASEPTIK culture medium samples in the “Poverkhnost” and “Vozdukh” devices and their stowage, later edited the images and downlinked them to Earth.
 
At ~6:55am, Paolo Nespoli powered up the new amateur radio station in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and at ~7:05am conducted a ham radio session with students at Istituto Tecnico Industriale Statale "Enrico Mattei", Maglie, Italy.
 
At ~8:30am, Kondratyev, Samokutyayev &amp; Borisenko supported a Russian PAO TV event, downlinking congratulations on the occasion of Victoria Day, May 9, an official Russian holiday, to the V-Day veterans and war veterans at Baikonur/Kazakhstan.     [The Soviet Victory Day on May 9 marked the capitulation of Nazi Germany to the Soviet Union in the Second World War (also known as the Great Patriotic War) in Russia.  Though it has been celebrated since 1946, the holiday became a non-labor day only in 1965 and only in some of the countries.]
 
At ~8:35am, Paolo used the COL amateur radio station for a ham pass with students at the Turin Flying Institute, Caselle Torinese, Italy.
 
At ~9:00am EDT, the six crewmembers held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~11:25am, the three Russian crewmembers supported a Russian PAO TV downlink, addressing messages of greetings and salutations to four different events.     [To (1) the participants of the "Single Day, the Children's Road Safety" propaganda event for children’s road safety to be held May 11 on the city square of the city of Odintsovo, Moscow Region; (2) to the closing ceremony of the Continental Hockey League (CHL) with the presentation of individual, team and special prizes to the best players, coaches and clubs of the season for the Gagarin Cup.  One of the special prizes, "The Future Depends on You", will be awarded in the category "Best Newcomer" to a very young and promising player of the CHL, (3) as a TV salute to the opening of the Fifth International Satellite Navigation Forum 2011 on June 1 in Moscow in the "Expocenter" Central Exhibition Complex, and (4) as a welcome at the opening meeting of the Sixth Congress of All-Russian Teachers on May 30-31 in Moscow.]
 
At 1:10pm, Cady conducted a ham radio session from the COL with visitors at the National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC.  
 
FE-1 &amp; FE-5 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Sasha at ~7:30am, Paolo at ~10:45am EDT.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).
 
TVIS Treadmill Update:   TVIS data on sound are still being analyzed by specialists.  A possibly TVIS intrusive gyro inspection is under discussion.  For the time being, TVIS continues to be No Go for the crew.
 
TOCA Issue:   On 5/5, the crew reported a TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) fault alert indicating elevated liquid loop pressures.  Specific root cause is unknown but is thought to be related to an improperly executed buffer container changeout and associated loop priming.   A procedure is in work to provide manual commanding to relieve pressure by forcing water through a downstream relief valve. Planned execution is 5/10 (Tuesday).
 

