
Direct Current Switching Unit (DCSU) 3A Trip:  DCSU Channel 3A Remote Bus Isolator (RBI) 1 tripped open due to a negative current condition.  DCSUs 3A and 3B have since been tied together and all power loads have been recovered.  Hardware that temporarily lost power or partial power included:  Optical PAyload for Lasercomm Science (OPALS), AlphaMagnetic Spectrophotometer (AMS), Robotic systems, and 3A PhotoVoltaic Thermal Control System (PVTCS) cooling.  No thermal clocks were violated while power was removed. A similar trip was experienced in 2012. Ground teams will continue their investigation and are developing recovery plans.
Dynamism of Auxin Efflux Facilitators, CsPINs, Responsible for Gravity-regulated Growth and Development in Cucumber (CsPINs) Sample Preparation: ISS CDR Wakata watered five CsPINs chambers and inserted them into the Measurement Experiment Units. Three of these units were installed into the microgravity Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) incubator unit. The remaining two units were installed into the 1-gravity CBEF incubator unit. CsPINs uses cucumber seedlings to analyze the effect of gravity on gravimorphogenesis (peg formation) in cucumber plants.
Petri Plants: FE-3 Swanson inserted a Petri Plate into the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC) in the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR). The ground team downlinked live video from the FIR for analysis. Petri Plants investigation focuses on the growth and development of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings in the spaceflight environment, with a specific focus on how a root knows which direction to grow in when gravity is absent. Plants are grown in agar, a nutrient solution with a gelatin-like consistency, and exposed to light or dark conditions. Plants are harvested on-orbit, preserved with a chemical preservative, and returned to the ground for post-flight evaluation.
VEG-01 Experiment Run: Swanson checked out the Veggie hardware and then installed root mats and plant pillows to initiate the VEG-01 experiment. During the installation there was an issue hydrating one of the pillows, so a backup pillow was used.  Veggie provides the necessary lighting and nutrient delivery for efficient plant growth in space. The Veg-01 hardware validation test investigation utilizes the Veggie facility on ISS. This investigation will assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie, and focus on the growth and development of ‘Outredgeous’ Lettuce (Lactuca sativa ) seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the effects of the spaceflight environment on composition of microbial flora on the Veggie-grown plants and the Veggie facility. 
Threshold Acceleration for Gravisensing (GRAVI)-2 Run #2: At the conclusion of GRAVI-2 Run #2, FE-5 Mastracchio stopped the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) and removed experiment containers. Mastracchio disassembled sixteen of the GRAVI-2 culture chambers and eight GRAVI-2 fixative units from the EMCS experiment containers, using the BioLab glove box. The aim of GRAVI-2 is to subject lentil seedling roots to different centrifugal acceleration levels in microgravity, in order to determine the threshold of acceleration the roots respond to. The seedling roots are stimulated by means of a centrifuge for several hours, and the gravitropic response (root curvature) is followed by time-lapse photography or video observation during this centrifugation; making it possible to determine precisely the threshold acceleration at which the root responds to the gravity stimulus. After the stimulation period, the roots are chemically fixed in glutaraldhyde, formaldehyde, and RNALater to determine the movement of amyloplasts under the influence of the stimulation.
37S Return Preparations:  Today the 37S crew (Wakata, Tyurin, and Mastracchio) performed an OBT exercise with a follow-on tagup with ground specialists in preparation for their return to Earth on May 13th.  During the OBT, they reviewed procedures and messages for deorbit and reentry.  Additionally, the 38S crew (Skvortsov, Artemyev and Swanson) performed a review of emergency roles and responsibilities for when the ISS is at 3 crew following 37S undock.
Microbial Capture Device and Coliform Detection Bag (MCD/CFM) visual analysis and data recording: Wakata performed analysis on samples which were collected on Tuesday.  These samples will also be returned for further analysis on 37S.  The analysis is designed to detect the presence of coliform bacteria, which is a good indicator of the sanitary quality of food and water.

