
Miniature Exercise Device (MED-2):  The MED-2 session planned for today was postponed due to time constraints.
SpaceX-14 Cold Stowage:  The crew implemented changes in the cold stowage plan today to support the return of blood samples on the SpX-14 vehicle. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub and Conductivity Test:  As part of the preparation activities needed to support the upcoming US EVA Pump Flow Control System (PFCS) Relocate currently planned on May 16th, the crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and tested water samples for conductivity.  During the maintenance activities, the crew noted that EMU 3006 was making an unexpected noise.  While suit telemetry appeared nominal, and no hardware issues were noted throughout the activities, a recording of the anomalous sound was provided to engineering teams for review. 
External TV Camera Group (ETVCG) Assembly: Today the crew completed assembly of an ETVCG for use in the upcoming US EVA on 16-May. This new ETVCG was constructed using the Light Assembly that was recently repaired by the crew on-orbit.  Despite multiple attempts, the crew was unable to confirm full engagement of the locking mechanism that holds the External High Definition Camera (EHDC) onto the Color TV Camera (CTVC). Engineering teams are currently reviewing photos and ground test data to determine whether or not additional action is required prior to the EVA.
Zero-Gravity Stowage Rack (ZSR) Photography: In preparation for installation of the Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG) arriving on HTV-7, the crew took specialized photos of the ZSR rack, and surrounding structure, at the JPM1F5 location. Ground specialists will use these photos to verify that on-orbit rack clearances match engineering models using a technique known as Photogrammetry.  Fundamentally, photogrammetry is about measurement: the measuring of the imaged object. The process involves taking overlapping photographs of an object and converting them into 2D or 3D digital models. By including objects of known length in the photographs, 3D models can be generated with a known scale. The results of this work will directly affect the verification and development of hardware required to install LSG later this year.

