
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): A crewmember performed a visual inspection of the CAL Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Jumper to check for leaks and reported the observed leakage. The MTL Jumper has been experiencing a small leak and periodic crew monitoring has been implemented while the ground assesses future remediation options. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Grip: Following a review of the Big Picture words and setup of the hardware, the crew performed Grip seated science-1 (Dynamics Seated) and seated science-2 (References Seated) sessions. The Grip experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
Light Ions Detector for ALTEA (LIDAL): LIDAL was temporarily relocated to allow the upcoming Grip and GRASP sessions room to be performed. The capability of Anomalous Long-Term Effects in Astronauts (ALTEA) to measure the linear energy transfer (LET) of protons and helium and the kinetic energy of protons and heavy ions was upgraded by the addition of a new time of flight (TOF) system detector called LIDAL. LIDAL upgrades the ability of ALTEA to make measurements that can be converted, by dedicated software in real-time, into radiation risk coefficients – effectively enabling ALTEA to become the first ever dosimetric (risk meter) aboard the ISS.
Nutrition Monitoring for the International Space Station (NutrISS): The crew set up the NutrISS bioimpedance device and performed a measurement session with the device. They also filled out the questionnaire related to the session. Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. It is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss.
Phospho-aging Mechanism of Accelerated Aging Under Microgravity (Phospho-aging): The crew performed blood and urine collections in support of the Phospho-aging investigation. Phospho-aging examines the molecular mechanism behind aging-like symptoms, such as bone loss and muscle atrophy, that occur more rapidly in microgravity. Using analysis of human premature-aging syndromes (progeria) in mouse models, scientists identified CalciProtein Particles (CPPs) as a pro-aging factor in mammals. CPPs behave like a pathogen, inducing chronic inflammation and systemic tissue damage that could be the mechanism behind accelerated aging in space.
Systems:
Spare Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only memory (EEPROM) Refresh The MDM On-Orbit Tester (MOOT) is a collection of hardware and software that is used to perform testing and software changes to an uninstalled MDM. Today, the crew gathered required items and configured the MOOT, MDM, and laptop to complete a EEPROM refresh  and checkout of two spare MDMs. The crew completed both refreshes nominally and finished the task by saving the results, tearing downing the worksite, and restowing the equipment.
Crew-3 Dragon Departure Preparations Activities: Today, the Endurance crew performed activities in preparation for Crew-3 undock and return, including Crew Dragon Emergency Hardware Transfer and Crew Dragon Suit Checkout. The Endurance crew also completed handover with the Freedom crew to familiarize the newly arrived crewmembers with living and working on ISS.
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Functional Check: As part of regular maintenance, the crew activated the spare TOCA and cycled the Gas Mass Flow Controller to mitigate potential failure of the spare TOCA. TOCA primarily serves as a general indication of overall water quality of the Water Processor (potable water). The crew also tested the water samples for the presence of Coliform bacteria utilizing a Coliform test bag. The TOCA was restowed following the TOCA Functional Check.

