
Gene, Immune and Cellular Responses to Single and Combined Space Flight Conditions – A (Triplelux-A): Cristoforetti installed the three Triplelux Reservoir A into the Automatic Ambient Stowage (AAS) inserts. She retrieved the second Culture Tube A from Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), thawed it in the Biolab glovebox and installed it in the EC. Following crew activities, ESA ground control teams performed bioluminescence measurements. Triplelux-A uses a rat macrophage cell line to investigate and compare the ability of macrophages to kill pathogens under normal gravity and microgravity conditions.  The goal is to gain a better understanding of immune suppression in spaceflight.
Cell Mechanosensing-3 Preparation: Virts configured and performed a checkout of the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Thermal Container and the Microscope in the rack in advance of the Cell Mechanosensing experiment launching on SpX-7. The experiment clarifies the mechanism of how tension fluctuation in cell membrane regulates activities of such transducers during microgravity conditions. The experiment cultures L6 myotubes/myoblastic cells on extracellular matrix with different rigidity in ‘Kibo’ module of the ISS so that microgravity conditions induce distinct tension fluctuation in cell membranes.
JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Operations: Virts repressurized the JEMAL and performed a leak check. The Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) Task Board-2 and Safety Cap Tool (SCT) will be brought into the ISS habitable volume and removed from the JEMAL Slide Table later in May.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Hose Install:  Due to recent high pressure signuatures the UPA has not been processing.  The data indicates that there is a restriction preventing the Pressure Control Pump Assembly (PCPA) to maintain the purge to the Distillation Assembly (DA) during operation. Since the DA is new with only 29 hours of operation, the restriction is expected to be in the purge line between the DA and PCPA.  This morning Kelly replaced this purge line with a pristine contingency hose.  UPA is currently processing nominally.
Node 3 (N3) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly Bed Remove & Replace (R&R):  Virts continued CDRA maintenance operations by removing both of the N3 CDRA Adsorbent/Desorbent (AD/DES) beds and installing the new beds that arrived on SpX-6. The old CDRA beds will be returned on SpX-6 for refurbishment.
ISS Reboost:  This morning, the ISS performed a reboost using 58P thrusters to set up phasing requirements for 41S landing scheduled on May 13. Burn duration was 12 minutes, 17 seconds with a Delta-V of 1.34 meters/second.
SpaceX (SpX)-6 Cargo Transfer Operations: The crew continued loading return cargo and trash into the Dragon vehicle. As of tonight’s crew report we are approximately 67% complete with SpX-6 cargo operations.  

