
Fluid Shifts Operations In the Service Module: With operator assistance from the ground team, crewmembers continued the third week of the Fluid Shifts experiment run completing a Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) test, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) exam, Tonometry exam, and a Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) test. The Fluids Shift investigation is divided into three one-week segments: Dilution Measures, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging using the Russian Chibis Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) device. The experiment measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures.
 
Microbial Observatory-1 Operations: The first of three Microbial Observatory -1 sample collections this week were completed today when the crew took surface and air sample collections using various devices in multiple locations of the ISS. The investigation monitors the types of microbes present on ISS over a one-year period. Samples are returned to Earth for further study, enabling scientists to understand the diversity of the microbial flora on the ISS and how it changes over time.
 
Strata-1 Data Transfer: The Strata SD cards were replaced and the data was transferred for transmission to the ground.  The experiment will run for a year and investigate the properties and behavior of regolith on small, airless bodies.  Regolith is the impact-shattered “soil” found on asteroids, comets, the Moon, and other airless worlds, but it is different from soil on Earth in that it contains no living material. Strata-1’s goal is to give us answers about how regolith behaves and moves in microgravity, how easy or difficult it is to anchor a spacecraft in regolith, how it interacts with spacecraft and spacesuit materials, and other important properties.
 
NanoRack Platform-2 Modules Removal: NanoRack Modules 20 and 22 were removed from NanoRack Platform-2.  Both NanoRack modules are parents of 4 sub-experiments. The NanoRack Platform is a multipurpose research facility on board the International Space Station (ISS).NanoRack Platforms support NanoRacks Modules in the CubeSat form factor by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity.
 
Dose Tracker: The crew completed entries for medication tracking. This investigation documents the medication usage of crew members before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities.
 
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPs) Inspection:  The crew audited the PEPs hardware to verify that the emergency response equipment is in the expected location and is free of damage.  Among the items that were inspected were Water Mist Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA) including Quick Don mask Assemblies (QDMAs) and Pre-Breathe Masks.
 
Dragon Cargo Transfer Status: The crew has completed 38:40 hours of cargo transfer with ~6 hours of transfer remaining to be completed.
 
Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA1)/Node 1 Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Reconfiguration:  Following up on the crew’s activity yesterday to reposition the Node 1 Overhead Starboard diffuser vanes so the air flows away from the PMA, today the crew covered the IMV diffuser at NOD1OS4 with Gray Tape and constructed a cone around the diffuser section of PMA1 ducting such that air is redirected back towards the RS.  The airflow between the segments is being limited in order to optimize CO2 removal throughout the ISS.
 
Robotics operations:  Ground controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) in order to gather imagery of defects which had been intentionally created on the SpX-8 Thermal Protection System (TPS). This was to demonstrate the viability of performing and noticing a defect for future crew vehicles.  Then the ground team grappled the SpX-8 dragon capsule in preparation for unberth and release scheduled for May 11.
 
 

