
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #57: Yesterday, ISS CDR Sergey Prokopyev (EV1) and FE-2 Dmitry Petelin (EV2) performed RS EVA #57 with Andrey Fedyaev supporting as the Intravehicular (IV) operator. The trio performed a multitude of tasks concurrently with ERA Mission 7 in order to relocate the Multipurpose Laboratory Module (MLM) science airlock from its stored location on MRM1 to MLM. The MRM2 hatch opened at 3:03 PM CDT and the following tasks were completed:

Demate the ШК-MRM1 interface cables, mate cable connections on the airlock (ШК)
Remove the MLI cover from the ШК modified passive docking assembly (АСП-М)
Remove the protective cover from the УФП-4 passive restraint device
Release the ШК airlock launch locks on MRM1
Monitor the progress of disengagement of the ШК Airlock from the attachment fixtures on the MRM1
Monitor the automatically controlled transfer of the ШК Airlock by the ERA from MRM1 to the MLM
Inspect MLM radiator attachment interface
Monitor ШК Airlock and MLM latching
Mate the cable connections between the MLM and ШК Airlock
Jettison bundle of disposal items from MRM2

The Total Phased Elapsed Time (PET) of this EVA was 7 hours and 11 minutes.
Payloads:
BioNutrients-2: The crew gathered the appropriate items, hydrated and agitated the Yogurt BioNutrients-2 production bags, and then placed them in SABL-3 to incubate. They also inspected the Kefir productions, which were hydrated on Wednesday, and reported they looked as expected. After sufficient time has elapsed for the cultures to develop, the production packs are frozen and later analyzed on the ground. One challenge to maintaining crew health on future long-duration space missions is supplying adequate nutrition. BioNutrients-2 tests using an on-demand system to produce specific quantities of key nutrients from yogurt, a fermented milk product known as kefir, and a yeast-based beverage. Samples are returned to Earth for analysis and comparison with identical samples grown on the ground.
ISS Fiber Safety Questionnaire: The crew answered a safety questionnaire designed to assist with future fiber optic production experiments. Many of the fiber optic experiments seek to develop efficient methods to produce ZBLAN (ZrF4, BaF2, LaF3, AlF3 and NaF) cable in microgravity, which has the potential to be much higher quality than the same type of cable produced on Earth.
Story Time From Space-9 (STFS-9): The crew was recorded while reading from the book Rocket says “Look up!”. STFS combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crew members read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crew members videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Zero T2: An Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) exercise session was performed on the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED). Exploration-class missions including Artemis, Gateway, and beyond require an exercise device that is lightweight and has a small footprint. These devices provide a variety of full body resistance exercise options, and aerobic rowing and cycling, but no treadmill. Without a treadmill there is no means of ambulating, or reinforcing the motor pattern of walking and therefore the objective of this study is to quantify the effect of no treadmill usage during an entire spaceflight mission on bone, muscle, aerobic, and sensorimotor health and performance, which is important data for determining the adequacy of exercise regimens for exploration missions.
Systems:
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Tool Stow: The crew deconfigured, stowed, trashed, and verified EVA EMU tools used in the recently completed USOS EVA #86 (RFG Retrieval). Tethers, Cue Cards, Thermal Mittens, D-Ring Extenders, Modular Mini Work Station (MWS) buildup, T-Bar, Wire Tires, Body Restraint Tethers (BRTs), Pistol Grip Tool (PGT), Towels, Contamination Detection Kit (CDK), General Purpose (GP) Tool Caddy, and Retractable Equipment Tethers (RETs) were all part of the activity and steps were completed per the instructions in Stow Track.
Work Light Disposal and Install Operations: The crew gathered current Work Lights and accessories, removed Camcorder batteries and Multi-use Bracket (MUB) adapters, and disposed of current Work Lights and accessories. The crew then deployed new LED Work Lights per crew preference. The Work Light Assembly is a portable, broad beamed light that is battery, or direct-powered, Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) hardware used on the ISS. These Work Light Assemblies are used for both maintenance and video operations during normal internal volume activities that require a wide light pattern.
Columbus (COL) Cabin Stowage Consolidation: The crew performed stowage consolidation in order to optimize stowage in COL. Additionally, the crew reorganized the COL Starboard Endcone and the Deck Rack Fronts and reported any deltas with respect to the expected final configuration. Finally, pictures were taken of each sector of the COL Starboard Endcone and the COL Cabin from the COL hatch. 
Crew-6 Dragon Endeavour Port Relocation Preparation Activities: The crew cleaned the Dragon Soft Capture system prior to Port Relocation and documented photos for downlink. The ground team then inspected the photos to confirm health of the docking system. During undock, the Docking Seal will become exposed and any loose Foreign Object Debris (FOD) in the Vestibule could get stuck to the lubricated seal and prevent a good seal to the port upon redocking. FOD on the rotating surfaces or the splined shaft could cause jamming and prevent the soft capture mechanism from successfully deploying. Additionally, the crew transferred EVA stowage from the NODE 2 Forward area back to the Crewlock in preparation for the port relocation this Saturday. 
