
Sprint: With assistance from Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Swanson, Commander (CDR) Wakata took data for his Return-7 days ultrasound Sprint session. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Ultrasound scans are on FD 14, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and R-7 for mission duration of six months and are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume.
Micro-7 Canister D Activation: FE-5 Mastracchio removed the Micro-7 fixation kit from Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus (CGBA)-4 and the BioCell Habitat D from CBGA-5. He processed BioCell Habitat D and placed it in Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator II (MERLIN). The majority of cells in the human body are non-dividing cells that provide critical functions, from blood cells to cells in different organs. Micro-7 studies how microgravity affects the genetic expression and physical shape of these types of cells for the first time. Understanding how these cells function in microgravity is a step toward understanding how organs, tissues, and the entire body change during spaceflight.
Petri Plant Operations: The first run of Petri Plants was completed today.  Wakata successfully acquired data on four distinct plant types at 2.5X and 10X magnifications using two different microscope filters.  Following this run, Swanson removed the Petri Plate from the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) and returned it to the Petri Plate Fabric Mount.  Petri Plants investigation focuses on the growth and development of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings in the spaceflight environment, with a specific focus on how a root knows which direction to grow in when gravity is absent. Plants are grown in agar, a nutrient solution with a gelatin-like consistency, and exposed to light or dark conditions. Plants are harvested on-orbit, preserved with a chemical preservative, and returned to the ground for post-flight evaluation.
Threshold Acceleration for Gravisensing (GRAVI)-2:  After today’s completion of GRAVI-2 run #1, Mastracchio disassembled the culture chambers and fixative units from the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) and stored them in the Biolab Temperature Control Unit.  The aim of GRAVI-2 is to subject lentil seedling roots to different centrifugal acceleration levels in microgravity, in order to determine the threshold of acceleration the roots respond to. The seedling roots are stimulated by means of a centrifuge for several hours, and the gravitropic response (root curvature) is followed by time-lapse photography or video observation during this centrifugation; making it possible to determine precisely the threshold acceleration at which the root responds to the gravity stimulus. After the stimulation period, the roots are chemically fixed in glutaraldhyde, formaldehyde, and RNALater to determine the movement of amyloplasts under the influence of the stimulation.
SpaceX-3 Optical PAyload for Lasercomm Science (OPALS): Following yesterday’s successful extraction of OPALS from the Dragon trunk, Robotics Ground Controllers prepared for tomorrow’s installation of OPALS on Express Logistics Carrier (ELC)1.  This afternoon they walked off the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF)4.  Later today they will unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and translate the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Work Site (WS)-6 to WS-7.
37 Soyuz (37S) Departure Preparations: In preparation for 37S undock scheduled for next Tuesday, May 13, Mastracchio and FE-4 Tyurin performed On Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Drill #1.
ISS Emergency Drill:  Wakata, Swanson, FE-1 Skvortsov, and FE-2 Artemyev participated in an ISS emergency drill and debrief.  Today’s case was a cabin depress. The purpose of this drill was to practice ISS emergency responses based on information provided by the onboard simulator. The crew physically translated through ISS to appropriate locations in order to visualize the use of station equipment and interfaces. They also practiced procedure execution and associated decision making, all while exercising communication skills with MCC-H and MCC-M.

