ISS On-Orbit Status 05/09/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Underway:  Week 8 of Increment 27.     &gt;&gt;&gt;Victory Day,<a name="May_9"> one of the most sacred national holidays for the Russian people, commemorating the dozens of millions of their countrymen fallen in the Great Patriotic War (World War II)</a>.&lt;&lt;&lt;
 
Upon wake-up, FE-1 Samokutyayev performed the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> (oxygen) generator.      [Maxim Suraev installed these filters on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Alexandr inspects the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
CDR Kondratyev’s morning inspection today included the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM (Service Module) on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
FE-6 Coleman undertook her 21<sup>st</sup> weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures session, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.  The required ~10h fast period started for her last night.       [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.] 
 
In the morning (~5:45am EDT), FE-5 Nespoli concluded his 5<sup>th</sup> (FD180) and final suite of urine collections for the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight &amp; Recovery), with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period.  Afterwards, Paolo underwent the associated generic blood draw, with Cady Coleman assisting with the phlebotomy as operator.  FE-5 then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI.        [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day.  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  Urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.  The operational products for blood &amp; urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads were revised some time ago, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they must verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
Alex Samokutyayev completed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #1 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated later today (~2:50pm), followed tomorrow by Bed #2 regeneration.     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 4/18-4/19.]
 
Nespoli initiated another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer) and deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.       [This was the 34<sup>th</sup> session with the replaced GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 7 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop (due to a software glitch, the software needs to be opened, closed, and then reopened in order to ensure good communication between GC/DMS and SSC-12).  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware],
 
Afterwards, Paolo supported ground-controlled BXF (Boiling Experiment Facility) payload operations from POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) by visually inspecting &amp; activating the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox).        [The purpose of the BXF is to validate zero-G models being developed for heat transfer coefficients, critical heat flux and the pool boiling curves.]
 
In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-3 Garan worked on the PCRF (Protein Crystallization Research Facility), relocating its 3 MUs (Maintenance Units) from positions #4, #5, #6 to #1, #2, #3.    [The planned return of the MUs to their previous positions was cancelled.]
 
FE-2 Borisenko continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, today working ~2h20m in the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok) cleaning the grilles of interior panels 201, 301 &amp; 401, followed by the vent screens of panels 116, 316, 231, 431.
 
FE-1 conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Samokutyayev also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Later, Sasha performed the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways to see how the ventilation/circulation system is coping with the 6-person crew.      [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]
 
Ron Garan serviced the WRS (Water Recovery System), accessing the RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) of the WRS-2 rack and reconfiguring the setup for the periodic RFTA backfill with a QD (Quick Disconnect) hose, which was then stowed and the RFTA activity closed out.     
 
Later, Ron performed periodic maintenance on the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), inspecting the exercise rope knot for fraying or damage in rope or rope strands.     [Knot can be loosened as needed to aid in the inspection.  Areas of concern are those with the tightest diameters (i.e. sections of rope contacting the French Clip).  If damage is found, Ron was to photo document it and notify MCC-Houston.]
 
Also working on the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), Paolo Nespoli completed the periodic evacuation of its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition &amp; sensor calibration.
 
Performing stowage consolidation of ESA CARD (Long Term Microgravity:  Model for Investigating Mechanisms of Heart Disease) equipment, Paolo sorted out the contents of the CDL HLTA BP (Cardiolab Holter Arterial Blood Pressure) kit.     [All items were trashed with the exception of the PCMCIA memory card and BP cuff, kept as spares.] 
 
Before sleeptime tonight, Cady Coleman will manually close the TOCA VCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer / Volume Compensation Assembly) valve via the TOCA maintenance screen to recover from the recent sample analysis failure.      [On 5/5, the crew reported a TOCA fault alert indicating elevated liquid loop pressures.  Specific root cause is unknown but is thought to be related to an improperly executed buffer container changeout and associated loop priming.   A procedure was worked out to provide manual commanding to relieve pressure by forcing water through a downstream relief valve.]
 
Ron, Cady &amp; Paolo again spent several hours on ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) cargo operations which included some “cleanup” work in the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) Leonardo..     [Today’s activities mainly consisted of finishing unpacking items from rack bay P1, with commensurate trashing of packing material.  Also, to make room for some ESA owned cargo, half of the S1 bay in PMM had to be cleared out.  More ATV cargo ops are scheduled throughout this week.]  
 
At ~2:20pm, Ron Garan conducted a tagup with MCC-Houston to debrief on today’s ATV cargo transfers.
 
Alex Samokutyayev completed the regular (weekly) inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of the KOB-2 (Loop 2) of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).
 
Dmitry Kondratyev prepacked return cargo for loading on Soyuz TMA-20/25S, guided by an uplinked list of ~60 items.  
 
Paolo Nespoli meanwhile readied US items also to be packed on 25S for return, using a list with ~13 entries.
 
The three Russian crewmembers joined up for another 2-hr activity of regular crew handover requirements.
 
Dmitri &amp; Cady had about an hour set aside for personal crew departure preparations; these are standard pre-return procedures for crewmembers.
 
Before sleep time, Dima will prepare the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his 13<sup>th</sup> experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
Later tonight before “Presleep” period, Cady will power on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Andrey &amp; Sasha had another 2h reserved for more video shooting in support of the Roskosmos Television Studio’s project to prepare a film, “ISS Tour”, requested by the Moscow Planetarium, intended for the commissioning of the renovated Planetarium on 6/12. 
 
At ~9:00am EDT, the six crewmembers conducted a scheduled familiarization (pre-handover) video teleconference with the Expedition 28 crew of Fossum Furukawa &amp; Volkov, slated to come up on Soyuz 27S in June.
 
At ~1:50pm, Cady is scheduled to power up the new amateur radio station in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and conduct at ~2:00pm a ham radio session with students at St. Michael School, Schererville, IN.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).
 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

