All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Saturday – half-duty day for the crew.  Space Day Family Day!  
 FE-1 Barratt continued his first session of sleep logging for the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight) from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long run.  This is similar to Barratt’s BCD (Baseline Data Collection) which was performed pre-flight for comparison.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, Dr. Mike wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as his patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and uses the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.] 
 FE-2 Wakata began the day by closing the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) door in the Saibo Rack to provide room in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  Later in the day, the CBEF door was opened again to reduce the humidity level in the incubator. 
 The crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.] 
 As part of the house cleaning, Padalka conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9). 
 The CDR also did the periodic maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM and FGB by cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting the POTOK in automatic mode. 
 After shutdown of the EarthKAM (EK/Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students) experiment down by ground commanding, Michael Barratt dismantled the setup in Node-2 and stowed the equipment.  
 For his VolSci (Voluntary Science) program session today, the FE-1 configured the BCAT (Binary Colloid Alloy Test) payload in the Node-2, checked it out and started the experiment.  At the end of the experiment run, Barratt moved the A31p laptop from the BCAT location to the BISE experiment location in the Lab for the next experiment.    [Mike set up the experiment along with camcorder and DCS-760 still camera, finding and photographing crystals of different colors in samples 8, 9 and 10, then setting up the camera for taking multiple flash angle images of sample 4, followed by homogenizing sample 4 and taking test photos.  The FE-1 then initiated the activity of automated photography of sample 4 with the Kodak DCS-760 digital still camera controlled by the EarthKAM software running on an SSC-13 (Station Support Computer 13) for about 87 days.] 
 FE-2 Wakata’s VolSci program for today was another session with the BISE (Bodies in the Space Environment) experiment, complete with video coverage, investigating the relative contributions of internal and external cues to self-orientation during and after zero-G exposure.  After setting up the camcorder for recording the activity, configuring the “Neurospat” hardware and activating the BISE software on its A31p SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop, Wakata then had ~90 min for completing the experiment protocol.    [The CSA (Canadian Space Agency)-sponsored BISE experiment studies how astronauts perceive Up and Down in microgravity. The specific objective of the BISE project is to conduct experiments during long-duration microgravity conditions to better understand how humans first adapt to microgravity and then re-adapt to normal gravity conditions upon return to earth.  This experiment involves comparisons of preflight, flight, and post-flight perceptions and mental imagery, with special reference to spaceflight-related decreases in the vertical component of percepts.  The test involves having subjects view a computer screen through a cylinder that blocks all other visual information. The astronauts will be presented with background images with different orientations relative to their bodies.] 
 In Kibo, FE-2 Wakata prepared his camera equipment at window JPM1F8 for the JAXA EPO (Educational Program Operation) PHOTO-MOON, then took images of the moon from that window for ~10 minutes.    [The purpose of the MOON EPO is to create a musical score using moon photos taken from Kibo while the crewmember is floating naturally in micro-G.  The position of the moon in the photos is regarded as the sound pitch (quarter note, eighth note, etc.), e.g., when the moon is at the top of the picture, it is a high pitch.  The project will emphasize the difference between the photo (and score) taken from the Earth and taken from Kibo.  Photos taken with the 400 mm lens use the moon craters to create the musical score.  Crater size determines sound length.  At least 80 photos are necessary each with the 200mm and 400mm lens.] 
 Mike performed the daily procedure of flushing [the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) ambient line with ~50mL of water (into a towel/Ziploc bag).  PWD water is currently cleared only for hygienic use, pending Russian approval.   CDR Padalka completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.] 
 The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR). 
 Afterwards, Wakata downloaded the exercise data file to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week). 
 At ~10:00am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events. 
 At ~11:18am, Barratt powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at ~11:23am conducted a ham radio session with visitors assembled at the National Air &amp; Space Museum (NASM) in Washington, DC.  This public exchange, mostly with students selected from the audience, was part of the Space Day Family Day events celebrating NASA’s 51st anniversary and 40th year anniversary of the first moon landing.  [Check out http://www.spaceday.org/ ] 
 
