All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  Closing out Progress M-02M/32P. 
 FE-2 Wakata had two hours reserved for fan filter cleaning on the CHeCS AAA (Crew Health Care System Avionics Air Assembly) in the US Lab which had been relocated from loc. LAB1D4 to loc. LAB1S4.    [This was the only expected execution of this procedure at this location before the CHeCS rack leaves ISS.] 
 Several hours were spent by CDR Padalka and FE-1 Barratt on preparing the Progress M-02M/32P cargo ship for its undocking and deorbit tomorrow.  Specifically, the close-out steps included –  Uninstalling &amp;      removing the LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the      BITS2-12 onboard measurement telemetry, along with its ROM unit (read-only      memory, TA765B) for re-use, Disconnecting the US-21      Matching Unit from the BITS2-12 onboard measurement telemetry system and      removing it for re-use  [the US-21 Matching Unit has      “matched” (connected) the SM (Service Module) with the      Progress motion control and DPO thrusters systems, so that they could be      commanded by the SM computer system (BVS)], Installing the docking      mechanism (StM, Stykovochnovo      mekhanizma) between the cargo ship and the DC1 [the StM is the      "classic" probe-and-cone type, consisting of an active docking      assembly (ASA) with a probe (SSh), which fits into the cone (SK) on the      passive docking assembly (PSA) for initial soft dock and subsequent      retraction to hard dock.  The ASA is mounted on the Progress' cargo      module (GrO), while the PSA sits on the docking ports of the SM, FGB and      DC1], Taking out an SD1-7      double-light fixture for re-use, Activating the      spacecraft’s electronics and taking out the ventilation/heating air      duct;  Removing the QD (quick      disconnect) screw clamps (BZV) of the docking &amp; internal transfer      mechanism (SSVP) which rigidized the joint   [during clamp      removal and leak checking, Russian thrusters were inhibited due to load      constraints], Closing      the hatches (~12:15pm);  Starting the standard      one-hour leak checking of the SU docking vestibule and fuel/oxidizer      transfer line interface between Progress and DC1 (~12:25pm), and Downloading the video which      recorded the close-out activities, for review by ground specialists.      Conducted the standard one-hour leak checking of the docking vestibule and      fuel/oxidizer transfer line interface between Progress and DC1  [during      leak checking and initial clamp installation, Russian thrusters were      inhibited (as was the case during docking)];  
 Mike Barratt updated the SODF (Station Operations Data File) Warn books by printing out new uplinked procedures pages, unstowing all three copies of the 15A Warning book (Lab, SM, FGB), replacing old pages with the new sheets, and restowing the books. 
 After reviewing the POC DOUG (Portable Onboard Computers/Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) software setup for the next SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) activity, Mike Barratt &amp; Koichi Wakata maneuvered the robotarm to the MT (Mobile Transporter) translate position after the usual calibration of the translational hand controller (THC) and rotational hand controller (RHC). 
 In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), the FE-1 completed the mechanical configuration of the FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory) required to install the Optical Target for the upcoming Optical Checkout 3. 
 Barratt transferred US condensate from the Lab CCAA (Common Cabin Air Assembly) dehumidifier tank to a CWC (Contingency Water Container, #1070), while monitoring the time (~20 min) it took for the pump to fill the latter (in order to evaluate the performance of the US filter used).  
 The FE-1 also closed the protective shutters of the JAXA Kibo laboratory module. 
 Additionally, Dr. Mike took care of the daily status check on the BCAT-4 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test-4) science payload, running by itself since 4/3.    [The status check, conducted on the last image taken by the DCS 760 digital still camera which is controlled by EarthKAM software on an A31p laptop, is to verify proper image focus and camera alignment.  The SSC (Station Support Computer) is taking photography of the phase separation occurring in the BCAT Sample 3, with the photo flash going off every half hour.] 
 CDR Padalka replaced the Russian laptop RS1 in the SM with laptop RS3 and made connections. 
 The CDR also performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.] 
 Afterwards, Gennady completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur). 
 FE-2 Wakata continued/finished the inventory/audit of EVA equipment stowed at various locations and in selected bags in the E/L (Equipment Lock).    [Part of A/L stowage locations have already been audited by the previous Increment crew.  Koichi’s work completes the work started earlier.  Afterwards, MCC-Houston was to be informed of any missing or additional items that were found.] 
 The FE-2 installed the CCC (CEVIS Contingency Controller) on the CEVIS ergometer, replacing its Control Panel which he stowed. 
 Wakata, Barratt and Padalka had their PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, at Koichi at ~7:40am, Mike at ~8:05am, Gennady at ~9:25am EDT. 
 The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1) and ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2)  
 Afterwards, Mike Barratt downloaded the exercise data file to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week). 
 At ~11:15am, the crew supported an U.S, PAO educational event via High Definition TV (G1 camcorder, MPC/Multipurpose Converter, IPU/Image Processing Unit) with the Fernbank Science Center, Atlanta, Ga. 
 CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website: http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone). 
 
