
Threshold Acceleration for Gravisensing (GRAVI)-2 Run #2: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Mastracchio hydrated sixteen GRAVI-2 sample chambers on the MWA. He then assembled sixteen GRAVI-2 culture chambers and eight GRAVI-2 fixative units into the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) experiment containers, using the BioLab glove box. The aim of GRAVI-2 is to subject lentil seedling roots to different centrifugal acceleration levels in microgravity, in order to determine the threshold of acceleration the roots respond to. The seedling roots are stimulated by means of a centrifuge for several hours, and the gravitropic response (root curvature) is followed by time-lapse photography or video observation during this centrifugation; making it possible to determine precisely the threshold acceleration at which the root responds to the gravity stimulus. After the stimulation period, the roots are chemically fixed in glutaraldhyde, formaldehyde, and RNALater to determine the movement of amyloplasts under the influence of the stimulation.
Circadian Rhythms: ISS CDR Wakata completed his final 36 hour Circadian Rhythms session and removed the equipment. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Biological Rhythms: Wakata attached a digital walk holter and electrodes to start taking data for his second measurement of Biological Rhythms. Wakata will collect data for 48 hours. Biological Rhythms 48 hours studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
Biological Research in Canisters (BRIC)-18 Canister D Activation: Mastracchio activated BRIC-18 Canister D.  Later in the day, Mastracchio placed BRIC-18 Canister D into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The BRIC-18 investigation focuses on the growth and development of seedlings in microgravity. Seedlings will be preserved with a chemical fixative and returned to the ground for postflight evaluation.
Veggie Hardware Installation: FE-3 Swanson and Mastracchio installed the Veggie hardware into Express Rack (ER)-3. Swanson also completed Veggie software and VEG-01 experiment On-Board Training (OBT). Veggie provides the necessary lighting and nutrient delivery for efficient plant growth in space. The Veg-01 hardware validation test investigation utilizes the Veggie facility on ISS. This investigation will assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie, and focus on the growth and development of ‘Outredgeous’ Lettuce (Lactuca sativa ) seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the effects of the spaceflight environment on composition of microbial flora on the Veggie-grown plants and the Veggie facility.
Optical PAyload for Lasercomm Science (OPALS):   Today Robotics Ground Controllers successfully installed OPALS on Express Logistics Carrier (ELC)1.   Initial power on of the payload is planned for Saturday.  OPALS  tests the potential for using a laser to transmit data to Earth from space.  Instead of being broadcast on radio waves, data is packaged onto beams of laser light.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 2 Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Bolt 3-1 Remove and Replace (R&R): On April 20 during SpX-3 berthing, CBM Bolt 3-1 failed its torque limit and was subsequently retracted. The bolt needed to be changed out prior to Dragon departure scheduled for May 18, 2014. Today Wakata and Swanson performed the bolt R&R and performed a video inspection of the bolt threads.
External (EXT)-2 Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM) Card Removal – The crew removed the Enhanced Input Output Control Unit Circuit Card (EIOCC) and two power supply cards from the failed EXT-2 MDM.  These cards will be returned to the ground for diagnostics.

