
Main Bus Switching Unit (MBSU)2 Robotic Remove & Replace (R&R): Last night, Robotics ground teams completed the extraction of the spare MBSU Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) from External Stowage Platform 2 (ESP-2) and successfully relocated it on the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP).  Then, the SPDM was used to unfasten the secondary H1 bolts and to break torque on the primary H2 bolts on both, the new spare and the failed unit.  Ground teams are currently executing steps to remove the failed MBSU from the S0 truss and install the spare.  Power up of the new MBSU is expected to occur tomorrow morning, followed by the powerdown and power up of the Direct Current Converter Units (DDCU) S02B to remove the Lab Truss Contingency Jumper (LTCJ) and return the external loads to their nominal configuration.  The removal of the Lab Secondary Power Distribution Assembly (SPDA) jumper and associated DDCU LA2B powerdown is planned for Monday.. 
OsteoOmics:  The crew thawed BioCells and injected them into growth media inside the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). After six BioCells are processed they are placed into BioCell Habitat 4, which is then placed in the Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL).  Later in the day  crewm removed a media kit from a Microgravity Experiment Research Locker / INcubator (MERLIN) and inserted it into a Cargo Transfer Bag at ambient temperature for the next day’s operations. This completes the first of four weeks of OsteoOmics operations.  Crewmembers experience bone loss in orbit, stemming from the lack of gravity acting on their bones. OsteoOmics investigates the molecular mechanisms that dictate this bone loss by examining osteoblasts, which form bone, and osteoclasts, which dissolve bone.  Improved understanding of these mechanisms could lead to more effective countermeasures to prevent bone loss during space missions and in a wide range of disorders on Earth. This may lead to better preventative care or therapeutic treatments for people suffering bone loss as a result of bone diseases like osteopenia and osteoporosis, or for patients on prolonged bed rest.
Genes in Space 2: The crew completed a session of the Genes in Space 2 experiment. They retrieved a sample from a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) and inserted it into the miniature Polymerase Chain Reaction (miniPCR) system for processing. The Genes in Space 2 investigation is based on the winning student proposal from the second Genes in Space competition. It tests whether the polymerase chain reaction can be used to study deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) alterations on board the ISS.  Spaceflight causes many changes to the human body, including alterations in DNA and a weakened immune system.  Understanding whether these two processes are linked is important for safeguarding crew health, but DNA technology that can track these changes is relatively untested in space. 
Sarcolab-3: The crew set up hardware for next week’s third and final joint-NASA-ESA-Russia Sarcolab experiment with a 49S crewmember. They deployed and configured the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) in the Columbus module. Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus (calf muscle) where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body.  Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure.
Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Status:  Yesterday the crew reported a high loading problem with CEVIS. Overnight, the crew and ground teams performed troubleshooting and isolated the issue to a faulty control panel. The control panel was replaced and CEVIS is now go for unrestricted crew use.

