
Fluid Shifts Baseline Imaging Using Chibis in the Russian Segment: The crew began operations for the third and final week of the Fluid Shifts experiment by performing data collections while wearing the Chibis Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) device. The Fluids Shift investigation is divided into three one-week segments: Dilution Measures, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging using the Russian Chibis Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) device. The experiment measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures.
 
Rodent Research-3 (RR-3) Transfer and Bone Densitometer Scans: Following yesterday’s grip strength operations, today the crew transferred the rodents from their habitats, configured Ultrasound 2, and performed bone densitometer scans with support from ground teams. This is one of three sessions planned this week that studies the molecular and physical changes to the musculoskeletal system that occur in space. Results will expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
 
Microbial Observatory-1 Review: In preparation for upcoming Microbial Observatory -1 operations, the crew reviewed reference material and videos before discussing sample collection procedures with the payload developer. The Microbial Observatory-1 investigation monitors the types of microbes present on ISS over a one-year period. Samples are returned to Earth for further study, enabling scientists to understand the diversity of the microbial flora on the ISS and how it changes over time.
 
AMS external survey: Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers successfully completed a survey of the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) payload from various angles to understand the state of the payload as well as to obtain detailed views of the payload. This evening, controllers will translate the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Work Site 2 (WS2) to WS4. The Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) will then walk off to Node 2 to perform Dragon Thermal Protection System (TPS) inspection and re-grapple in preparation for unberth on May 11.
 
Treadmill 2 (T2) software update:  Ground teams updated the software on the T2.  The regularly scheduled exercise session on T2 after the update was performed nominally.
 
Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA1)/Node 1 Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Reconfiguration:  Following the PMA1/Node 1 IMV reconfiguration activity on Monday, data indicated that air exchange is still occurring between the Russian segment and the USOS.  Today, to limit the air exchange through the PMA, the crew repositioned the Node 1 Overhead Starboard diffuser vanes so the air flows away from the PMA.  Additionally, the crew will be reconfiguring the stowage in the PMA to direct the air coming out of the PMA grille toward the Russian Segment.  The airflow between the segments is being limited in order to optimize CO2 removal throughout the ISS.
 

