
SpaceX (SpX)-17 Capture/Berthing: SpX-17 launched successfully Saturday carrying approximately 5,500 pounds of research, crew supplies, and hardware to the ISS. The vehicle was captured today at 6:03 AM CT with berthing to the Node 2 Nadir (N2N) port at 9:22 AM CT. The crew completed vestibule pressurization, leak check and vestibule outfitting and has begun cargo transfer. Dragon will remain berthed to the ISS until May 31, 2019.
Double Coldbag (DCB) Unpack:  The crew reviewed plans for transfer and unpacking of the DCBs scheduled for tomorrow.  The Double Coldbags are loaded with phase change media to keep science items within the acceptable temperature rage during visiting vehicle ascent.
Fluid Shifts: The crew performed Big Picture Words review, item gather, and hardware relocation in preparation for tomorrow’s Fluid Shifts operations in the Russian segment.  Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging with Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure in the Russian segment). The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronauts’ eyes.  Because the head-ward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
Food Acceptability: The crew completed their Food Acceptability questionnaires. This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system. Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
JAXA Mouse Mission: Hardware preparation including washer tank inspection, Mouse Habitat Cage Unit water refill and item relocation were performed in preparation for the upcoming JAXA Mouse Mission.  The purpose of this Mouse Mission is to analyze any alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term (e.g. more than 30 days) space environment.  Data collected could suggest not only experimental information about mice in the space environment, but also fundamental information about humans exposed to a prolonged space environment.
Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) Status:  During today’s planned activation of TAS, the Domain Adapter Node (DAN) computer was not passing data. Ground troubleshooting discovered an abnormally large file using up all available disk space on the DAN. Once the file was deleted, data flow was restored and TAS was activated.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collection: The crew collected water samples from the PWD for in-flight and post-flight analysis. Collection is performed multiple times throughout the increment to verify water quality.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday Robotic Ground Controllers used the Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to complete a survey of the Node 2 Nadir (N2N) Active Common Berthing System (CBM). Today the crew monitored the SpaceX-17 approach and captured the vehicle using the SSRMS. Ground Controllers then inspected the Dragon Passive CBM sealing surface and installed Dragon on the N2N CBM.

