
Payloads:
BioNutrients-2: The crew gathered the appropriate items, hydrated the Yeast BioNutrients-2 production bags, and placed them in SABL-3 to incubate. In addition, the Yogurt production packs were inspected a final time, and frozen for later analysis on the ground. One challenge to maintaining crew health on future long-duration space missions is supplying adequate nutrition. BioNutrients-2 tests using an on-demand system to produce specific quantities of key nutrients from yogurt, a fermented milk product known as kefir, and a yeast-based beverage. Samples are returned to Earth for analysis and comparison with identical samples grown on the ground.
Immunity Assay: The appropriate hardware was gathered to support an upcoming Immunity Assay session. Kubik 5 and Kubik 6 were also set up to support the experiment session. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a blood sample, with the help of a functional immune test. Until now, this test could only be accomplished on Earth, and conducted pre- and postflight. With the help of a newly developed assay tube, researchers can also execute this test inflight, which allows for a much clearer assessment of the immune changes that happen in flight.
Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina): Lumina hardware was rebooted, and data was transferred to a Station Support Computer (SSC) laptop for subsequent downlink. Lumina is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Selectable Optical Diagnostics Instrument (SODI)/Particle Vibration: The SODI/Particle Vibration hardware was removed from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and stowed. The Particle Vibration science activities were previously completed; they spanned several months and were very successful. Thermovibrationally-driven Particle Self-assembly and Ordering mechanisms in Low gravity (Particle Vibration) project aims to investigate the self-organization mechanisms of particles in fluids. The outcomes of the project have various implications in the science of materials (development of novel manufacturing techniques) and astrophysics (understanding of the mechanisms responsible for the formation of asteroids and planets).
Systems:
Crew-6 Dragon Endeavour Port Relocation Preparation Activities: In preparation for the Crew-6 Port Relocation, the crew performed a Port Relocation Paper Sim with the SpaceX ground team, followed by a conference with ground specialists. Additionally, the crew relocated a Cargo Dragon Station Support Computer (SSC) in support of monitoring tools for the Crew-6 Dragon Port Relocation and performed a Crew Dragon Seat Actuator Checkout. On Saturday, May 6th, Steve, Woody, Sultan, and Andrey will ingress Crew Dragon Endeavor and relocation the vehicle from Node 2 Zenith to Node 2 Forward.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Line Vent Tube Assembly (WLVTA) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew performed a replacement of the EMU 3009 WLVTA, degassed the WLVTA in preparation for loop scrub, and configured/stowed the removed WLVTA for return. The WLVTA is the component of the EMU that uses a Multiple Water Connector to connect the EMU cooling and ventilation loops to the Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garment (LCVG). The WLVTA must be changed out after 4 years of life.
EMU Cooling Loop Scrub: The crew performed ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) of EMUs 3009 and 3013 as well as Airlock (A/L) cooling water loops. Conductivity readings and a water sample were taken from the cooling loop following the 70-minute scrub. Finally, crew terminated and deconfigured the EMUs. EMU loop scrubs are required preventative maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU cooling loop. The EMU is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an Extravehicular Activity (EVA) in Earth orbit.
Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation System (CEVIS) Control Panel Swap: Today, the crew replaced the failed CEVIS Control Panel with a spare, power cycled CEVIS, and performed a Control Panel checkout following the R&R. CEVIS provides the ability for cycling activities via leg or arm ergometry in order to provide aerobic exercise as a countermeasure to cardiovascular deconditioning on-orbit.
