ISS On-Orbit Status 05/02/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Underway:  Week 7 of Increment 27.
 
Upon wake-up, CDR Kondratyev performed the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> (oxygen) generator.      [Maxim Suraev installed these filters on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Dmitri inspects the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
Kondratyev’s morning inspection today included the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM (Service Module) on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
As part of the crew’s regular morning inspection tour, FE-1 Samokutyayev performed the routine checkup of circuit breakers &amp; fuses in the DC1 (Docking Compartment).      [The monthly checkup in DC1, MRM1 &amp; MRM2 looks at AZS circuit breakers on the BVP Amp Switch Panel (they should all be On) and the LEDs (light-emitting diodes) of 14 fuses in fuse panels BPP-30 &amp; BPP-36.  MRM2 &amp; MRM1 were derived from the DC1 concept and are very similar to it.]
 
FE-6 Coleman undertook her 20<sup>th</sup> weekly U.S. “Bisphosphonates” biomedical countermeasures session, ingesting an Alendronate pill before breakfast.  The required ~10h fast period started for her last night.       [The Bisphosphonates study should determine whether antiresorptive agents (that help reduce bone loss) in conjunction with the routine in-flight exercise program will protect ISS crewmembers from the regional decreases in bone mineral density documented on previous ISS missions.  Two dosing regimens are being tested: (1) an oral dose of 70 mg of Alendronate taken weekly starting 3 weeks prior to flight and then throughout the flight and (2) an intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg Zoledronic Acid, administered just once approximately 45 days before flight. The rationale for including both Alendronate and Zoledronic Acid is that two dosing options will maximize crew participation, increase the countermeasure options available to flight surgeons, increase scientific opportunities, and minimize the effects of operational and logistical constraints.  The primary measurement objective is to obtain preflight and postflight QCT (Quantitative Computed Tomography) scans of the hip. The QCT scans will provide volumetric bone density information of both cortical and trabecular (spongy) bone regions of the hip.] 
 
Samokutyayev worked in the Progress 42P vehicle to install the electronic LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and its PZU-1M ROM (read-only memory), using the LKT and PZU boxes removed from the previous Progress 41P and stowed in DC1.
 
Alexandr also scavenged (uninstalled &amp; removed) the SD1-7 light fixtures from the Progress, stowing them with spares &amp; updating the IMS (Inventory Management System).
 
Borisenko performed the periodic verification of the automatic refresh of the IUS AntiVirus program on the Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2.  Non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1 were not refreshed today since complete software re-installation on them to restore virus definition files is scheduled tomorrow and Wednesday.       [After first scanning the FS (File Server) laptop, the virus database is usually transferred by flash-card to the non-network computers, which are then scanned one by one.   Background:  Regularly on Mondays, automatic virus definition file updates are verified on the RSS2, RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 network laptops, while the non-networked laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1 are manually updated.  Antivirus scans are then started &amp; monitored on RSS2 &amp; RSE-Med.  Results of the scans on RSS1, RSK1-T61p, RSK2 &amp; RSE1 are verified on Tuesdays.  Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
Continuing rack reconfiguration work in the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) Leonardo, FE-5 Nespoli removed K-BARs (Knee-Brace Assembly Replacements) &amp; K-BAR capture mechanisms from the rack in loc. F2 and used LSAs (Long Strap Assemblies) to tie it down instead.     [The K-BARs are required for the CQ (Crew Quarters) in Node-2 at D5.]
 
Nespoli supported ground-controlled payload operations in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) by activating (and later deactivating) the PWS1 (Portable Workstation 1).
 
Paolo also spent several hours setting up a two T61p laptops from stowage as (1) the new ISS-SERVER1 (Windows) and (2) the new domain controller LS1 (Linux Server 1), then loading both with SSCV4 (Station Support Computer Version 4) software via LIS (Load Image Server) on their prime and backup HDDs (Hard Disk Drives).      [The ISS-SERVER1 &amp; LS1 laptops were later stowed along with the spare HDDs.  The new ISS-SERVER1 will be used for the next version of the OpsLAN (Operations Local Area Network).  This sets the stage for the upcoming stage SSCV4 transition, tentatively in late May.] 
 
In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Coleman connected umbilicals from the MSPR (Multipurpose Small Payload Rack) to a Z-Panel (UIP/Utility Interface Panel) at loc. A4.  Afterwards, Cady verified proper functioning of the fire indicator illumination at the A4 ISPR (International Standard Payload Rack).
 
In the US Lab, Cady installed &amp; configured the “Purple” and “Green” HRF (Human Research Facility) Supply kits at the HRF rack, than took documentary photography.
 
Continuing the support of Progress 42P-delivered biotech research payloads, Samokutyayev relocated the BTKh-6,7 ARIL, OChB experiments from the TVU thermostatic container (+29 degC) and deposited them in the KRIOGEM-03 cooler (+4 degC).
 
With Dmitri Kondratyev taking pictures, Sasha later transferred the BTKh-26 KASKAD (Cascade) bioreactor from the TBU-V (Universal Bioengineering Thermostat V) thermostatic container (+29degC) in the MRM1 module, mixed it in the KT container in the DC1 and placed it back in the TBU-V.       [KASKAD investigates cell cultivation of microorganisms, animals and human in microgravity to obtain concentrated biomass (emulsion) with a high content of cells, providing the increased output of target BAS (bioactive substances).  The BIOEMULSIYA science hardware includes a closed-type autonomous bioreactor in a bag, the KT thermostat (temperature-controlled)-body with BUP-06 actuator control unit in DC1 and the onboard KRIOGEM-03 cooler in SM.]
 
Andrey Borisenko again used the biotech procedure BTKh-39 ASEPTIK, first for sterilizing the Russian GB/Glavboks (Glovebox) work site, then taking air &amp; surface samples to determine the degree of sterilization of the GB during its use for KASKAD, accompanied by situational photography.  Later in the day, Andrey monitored the automatic shutoff of the ASEPTIK’s pump, retrieved the sample from the GB and set it up for incubation.      [ASEPTIK evaluates procedural reliability &amp; effectiveness for methods &amp; equipment to provide aseptic conditions for on-orbit biotechnological experiments.  It supports the development of a flow chart for control checks of the sterility of the Glovebox-S hardware and other equipment.]
 
After reviewing uplinked procedures and a video clip on “Flight of Paper Rockets”, Cady Coleman prepared another “Kids in Micro-G” experiment, then performed the demo session with Ron Garan’s assistance.  The video recording was later downlinked to the ground via MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter), with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  
 
After retrieving a spare RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) from the PMM, FE-3 Garan worked in Node-3 on the WRS-2 (Water Recovery System) Rack 2 to change out the RFTA, then discarding the old unit.     [RFTAs collect the substances cleaned from the pretreated urine by the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) as it turns it into water.  They need to be replaced when filled.]
 
Working on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), Ron Garan adjusted the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) snubber at lower left of the rack to bottom out the snubber pin and fully seat the alignment guide in the ARIS (Active Rack Isolation System) cup.
 
In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-6 Coleman worked several hours on the FPEF MI (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility / Marangoni Inside [as opposed to “Surface”]) payload, closing out the latest experiment run and removing the experiment cassette for return on ULF7.     [Activities included removing the silicone filter hose from FPEF in the Ryutai Rack, disconnecting the FPEF payload bus cable and the IPU (Image Processing Unit) User Video cables between FPEF and IPU, setting up the FPEF MI Body on the MWA (Maintenance Work Area), removing the MI Core from the FPEF Body and setting it up on the MWA for removing the MI Cassette from it and then stowing it.  The Marangoni convection experiment in the FPEF has researched fluid tension flow in micro-G:  first, a liquid bridge of silicone oil is formed into a pair of disks.  Then, using temperature differences imposed on the disks, convection is induced causing the silicone oil to move and transition through different types of flows because of its fluid instability: successively from laminar to oscillatory, chaos, and turbulence flows as the driving force increases.  The flow and temperature fields are observed in each stage and the transition conditions and processes are investigated.]
 
FE-5 Nespoli conducted the periodic inspection of the PEPs (Portable Emergency Provisions), checking PFEs (Portable Fire Extinguishers, PBAs (Portable Breathing Apparatus), EHTKs (Extension Hose Tee Kits) and QDMA (Quick-Don Mask Assembly) harnesses.     [PFEs: 2 in Node-1, 1 in A/L (Airlock), 2 in Lab,1 in Node-2, 1 in Node-3, 2 in JPM, 1 in JLP, 2 in COL.  PBA O<sub>2</sub> Bottles: 4 in Node-1, 5 in A/L, 2 in Lab, 2 in Node-2, 2 in Node-3, 2 in JPM, 2 in COL.  QDMAs: 4 in Node-1, 8 in A/L, 2 in Lab, 2 in Node-2, 2 in Node-3, 2 in JPM, 2 in COL.  EHTKs: 1 in Node-1, 2 in Lab, 2 in Node-2, 1 in Node-3 .]
 
Afterwards, Paolo – as per crew request – used the BCR (Bar Code Reader) to inventory &amp; consolidate the four onboard ITCS CQMKs (Internal Thermal Control System / Coolant Quality Monitoring Kits).
 
Both Paolo &amp; Ron had more time set aside for ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) cargo ops, focusing on transferring trash &amp; excessed equipment to the spacecraft for disposal.   Paolo was scheduled for a tagup with MCC-Houston at ~2:30pm to debrief on today’s ATV cargo transfers.
 
In the JAXA JPM, after powering off the MMA (Microgravity Measurement Apparatus) of the GHF (Gradient Heating Furnace) on the Kobairo Rack and disconnecting the MMA TAA (Triaxial Acceleration Assembly) cable, Cady performed maintenance on the GHF by opening its MP (Material Processing) front panel and taking electrical resistance measurements of the GHF heating units insulation material with the MultiMeter volt/amp instrument.     [The front panel was then reattached and the TAA cable reconnected.]
 
Borisenko unpacked &amp; deployed new Progress 42P-delivered RODF (Russian Operations Data Files) material.      [This involved updates for the books on Atmosphere Revitalization System (SOGS), Communications System (RTK), Pressure Control &amp; Atmosphere Monitoring System (SKDS), Medical Operations (MO Book 1, MO Book 2), Technical Experiments (TE), Biotechnology Experiments (BTKh), Life Science Experiments (BE), IFM IVA General Guidelines &amp; Standard Operations Reference Materials (VnuKD Tipovye operatsii), FGB IVA Part 1 (PTO VnuKD FGB ch. 1), Transfer Ops (RPR), Progress 410 Transfer Ops (RPR TKG 410) plus 1 ODF CD-ROM.] 
 
Dima conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Sasha took care of the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Later tonight before “Presleep” period, Cady will power on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
CDR, FE-1, FE-2 &amp; FE-5 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) scheduled, via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Paolo at ~8:35am, Dmitri at ~12:35pm, Sasha at ~1:30pm, Andrey at ~2:00pm, EDT.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR/2x, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).
 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

