
Wisconsin Crystal Growing Contest-Wisconsin Space Crystals (CASIS PCG-14): Today a jar sample assembly was performed on the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) during which the crew attached the solution and desiccant jars to a membrane interface. The desiccant draws solution vapors through a membrane, resulting in crystals forming at the membrane surface. Crystals are expected to form within about 14 days. The investigation has two goals: to explore closed-system crystallization of inorganic salts from aqueous solutions using evaporation facilitated by a desiccant, and to examine how well a previously optimized thermal-gradient inorganic salt crystallization procedure translates to other systems. Middle and high school students compete to grow the most perfect ground-based crystals, as judged by experts in crystallography, and those with the fewest imperfections fly their experiments aboard the ISS.
Genes in Space-6: The crew performed Genes in Space 6 Freeze and Fly Run Part 1 and recorded a congratulatory message for the four student winners of the 2018 contest.  Part 1 involved the crew setting up the miniPCR, preparing samples for the miniPCR, and running the miniPCR.  Part 1 looks at ground-prepared DNA samples and the goal is to process and return some of the samples on SpX-17 and use some of the samples in Freeze and Fly Part 2 and Part 3. Genes in Space-6 determines the optimal DNA repair mechanisms that cells use in the spaceflight environment. The investigation evaluates the entire process in space for the first time by inducing DNA damage in cells and assessing mutation and repair at the molecular level using the miniPCR and the Biomolecule Sequencer tools aboard the ISS.
Kakuda Imagery: The crew took multiple photos and a video of the Kakuda Space Rice Seed experiment which will return on SpX-17. The Kakuda Space Rice is a JAXA commercial mission designed to attract public attention for local commercial activities to promote the brand equity of the City of Kakuda, located in the Miyagi prefecture. A local farmer grows rice seeds that are, in turn, flown to the ISS aboard a cargo vehicle. The rice seeds are stored internally in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) on the ISS, and later returned to Earth. 
Characterizing the Effects of Spaceflight on the Candida albicans Adaptation Responses (Micro-14): Using the Microgravity Sciences Glovebox (MSG), the crew inoculated a new culture bag and preserved the previous, used culture bag.  The Micro-14 life science research mission will investigate and evaluate the responses of the C. albicans, a type of yeast, to microgravity conditions and, in particular, to assess changes at the physiological, cellular, and molecular level and to characterize virulence factors. 
MSRR/MSL (Materials Science Research Rack/Microgravity Science Laboratory):  The intent of the Monday’s activities was to activate the facility and begin the chamber pump-down sequence.  Unfortunately, a low pressure indication in the Argon tank was observed (this gas system is used to fill the chamber following the pump-down sequence).  A crewmember was asked to check the configuration of valve HV-G1 and it was verified to be in the expected configuration.  Ground teams are assessing a forward plan. The MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. The MSL can accommodate and support diverse experiment modules. Many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday afternoon, robotics teams in Japan removed the Cloud Aerosol Transport System (CATS) payload from Exposed Facility Unit (EFU) 8. CATS was then handed over from the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) to the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). Houston robotics ground controllers then used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to maneuver and install CATS into the SpX-17 trunk for disposal. 

