
CSA/Bioanalyzer: Using the Cellular Labeling and Biomarker instruments of the Bio-Analyzer, the crew initiated an analysis of a control sample.The hardware was powered and the crew ran a control sample. Although the International Space Station (ISS) is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, existing instrumentation for the analysis of biological samples is almost completely lacking as compared to capabilities found in laboratories on Earth. To address this issue, the Bio-Analyzer Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Analyzer facility, which was specifically developed to quantify molecules and cells in body fluids such as blood, urine or saliva. The analysis is conducted on blood samples collected through a finger prick and the instrument provides the data within 2 hours after blood collection.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR)/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME):  The crew replaced the ACME Igniter Tip and installed the ACME Short Thermocouple Array, which will allow the continuation of the ACME/Flame Design investigation.The Flame Design investigation studies the production and control of soot to optimize oxygen-enriched combustion and the design of robust, soot-free flames. Soot can adversely affect efficiency, emissions, and equipment lifetime, so this may lead to more efficient and cleaner burner designs. The experiment is conducted with spherical flames of gaseous fuels in the CIR as part of the ACME project.  Flame Design is one of five experiments hosted by CIR/ACME.
Cryo chiller Desiccant Remove: The crew removed one desiccant pouch from each of the four openings of the Cryo Chiller Sample Cartridge. Cryo Chiller operates in an EXPRESS Rack and provides a configurable interface at -185°C that accommodates a variety of sample types plus provides flexibility for custom sample configurations if desired. It provides convenient ambient temperature stowage adjacent to the cold volume, so additional hardware may be co-located during crew operations. The unit provides capability for transportation using Commercial Orbital Transportation Services (COTS) vehicles at temperatures currently unavailable (approximately -160°C at 75W).
Fluid Shifts Chibis Ops:  Two crewmembers performed the second of two days of their Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) data collection.  Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the LBNP part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronauts’ eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage.
Kidney cells: The crew removed Kidney Cells hardware from Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL) and performed the media change inside Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG). Effects of Microgravity on the Structure and Function of Proximal and Distal Tubule Microphysiological System (MPS), or Kidney Cells, examines how kidney health is affected by microgravity and other factors of space travel, including increased chemical exposure, water conservation and recycling, and altered dietary intake. Serious medical conditions caused by poor kidney health, including protein in the urine (proteinuria), osteoporosis, and kidney stones, occur more often and more quickly in space. Knowledge gained can help protect the health of astronauts and also contribute to better treatments for kidney related conditions on Earth.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Orbiting Carbon Observatory (OCO)-3: Last night Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to extract OCO-3 from the Dragon trunk. The MSS then handed off OCO-3 to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (RMS) which was used to install OCO-3 on the JEM Exposed Facility (JEM-EF). The payload was subsequently activated successfully. Commissioning activities have begun and will continue for 90 days. The OCO-3 will enable carbon dioxide (CO2) observations from the JEM-EF aboard the ISS. The space instrument is designed to investigate questions about the distribution of carbon dioxide on Earth as it relates to growing urban populations and changing patterns of fossil fuel combustion.

