ISS On-Orbit Status 05/19/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew off duty.   &gt;&gt;&gt;Today the AMS-02 (Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer 02) celebrates its First Anniversary of continuous operation on ISS – Congratulations!&lt;&lt;&lt;
 
After wakeup, CDR Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
The six Exp-31 crewmembers joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Oleg completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).
 
The CDR also handled the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
FE-3 Acaba completed his (currently) daily task of filling out his SHD (Space Headache) questionnaire.     [He started this activity after his Soyuz launch and is continuing it on ISS (on an SSC/Station Support Computer), currently with daily logging in the first week, thereafter once weekly.  Neurologists from Leiden University are studying the question whether astronauts in space suffer from headaches.  With the help of a simple questionnaire, André registers the headache episodes and the eventual accompanying symptoms.  The results may help to characterize the frequency and characteristics of space headache and to develop countermeasure to prevent/minimize headache occurrence during the space flight],
 
FE-5 Kuipers conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.
 
FE-1 Padalka serviced the Russian BIO-8 PLAZMIDA biology experiment by removing it in its Rekomb-K hardware from the TBU temperature-controlled incubator (+37 degC) and inserting it into the KRIOGEM-03 cooler (+4 degC).
 
Joe removed his CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation) PCMCIA memory card from the SSC laptop where it was formatted for him.
 
FE-6 Pettit filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), his 15<sup>th</sup>.      [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
At ~8:45am EDT, the entire crew held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~10:25am, Joe Acaba had his (currently) daily post-arrival PMC (Private Medical Conference) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video.
 
FE-2 &amp; FE-6 conducted their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Sergei at ~8:10am, Don at ~2:15pm EDT.
 
The “newcomers” spent some time familiarizing themselves with the onboard exercise equipment, Gennady &amp; Sergei observing Oleg’s workout on the TVIS treadmill, Joe watching Don Pettit on the T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill and André Kuipers on the ARED and CEVIS machines.
 
The “old” crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6).       [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day. Today’s exercise called for ARED+T2 (resistive+aerobic), with CEVIS (aerobic/interval), ARED+T2 (Kinematics), T2 (aerobic/interval), ARED+T2 and CEVIS (interval) following in the next 5 days.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.] 
 
WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.    [The new card (31-0005C) lists 9 CWCs (36.4 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (no CWCs);  2. Condensate water (3 CWCs with 14.0 L, plus 2 empty bags);  3. Iodinated water (2 CWCs with 22.4 L; and 4. Waste water (1 empty bag EMU waste water).  Also one leaky CWC (#1024) with 8.5 L).  No bags with Wautersia bacteria.  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
Did you know?   In the last 28 days imagery downlinks via US OCA have averaged 30 GB (Gigabytes)/day.
 

