
Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) Marangoni Deformation (MD) Removal: Cristoforetti removed the MD10 from the FPEF in preparation for Dynamic Surf-3 scheduled in Increment 45.  Fluid convection observations are performed of a silicone oil liquid bridge that is generated by heating the one disc higher than the other within the FPEF. By observing and understanding how such fluids move, researchers can learn about how heat is transferred in microgravity, and ultimately drive the design and development of more efficient fluid flow based systems and devices.
Actiwatch Reconfiguration: Kelly reconfigured his and Kornienko’s SLEEP Actiwatches.  He verified the remaining battery life and modified the settings to match the data collection intervals required for the experiment. The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity, and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness, to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the International Space Station (ISS). 
Microbial Observatory-1 Sample Collection: Virts performed surface and air sampling using various devices in multiple locations and photograph each location prior to sample collection. This activity is to characterize the types of microbial populations on ISS.  The samples will return on SpaceX-6.
ISS Reboost: The ISS is scheduled to perform a reboost tonight using 58 Progress (58P) thrusters. Planned burn duration is 15 minutes, 1 second with a Delta-V of 1.64 meters/second. 
Mobile Servicing System Operations: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to prepare to stow Robotic Micro-Conical Tool 2 (RMCT2).  SPDM Arm 1 was then used to maneuver RMCT2 over the Tool Holster Assembly (THA) and stow the RMCT.  After releasing the RMCT, Arm 1 was configured to a stow configuration.  The Robotics Ground Controllers are currently maneuvering SSRMS to place the SPDM on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2).  They will then release SPDM and maneuver SSRMS to a park position.
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Update –Yesterday, the crew successfully replaced the N3 CDRA blower fan.  Ground teams completed leak checks on beds 1 and 2 today.  No leaks were detected on vacuum side, however, data indicates a possible leak on the air side. No impacts expected to CO2 removal and plan is to leave Node 3 CDRA operational while engineering continues to monitor.  Lab CDRA will be deactivated tonight. CO2 levels remain low. 

