
ISS Reboost: On Saturday, the ISS performed a reboost using the aft Progress 79P R&D thrusters. The purpose of the reboost was to set up phasing conditions for the 81P 2-orbit rendezvous on June 3 (GMT 154). The burn duration was 11 minutes 25 seconds with a Delta-V of 1.1 m/s. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Maintenance: On Saturday, after performing several component remove and replace (R&R) activities to address improper WHC operation, the crew discovered a cap gasket that was blocking the flow path at the connector from the pre-treat tank. A spare dose pump was installed on Sunday and the WHC was recovered.
Payloads:
Astrobee: ISS video hardware was set up in preparation of autonomous Astrobee operations. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): A crewmember performed a visual inspection of the CAL Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Jumper to check for leaks and reported the observed leakage. The crew will continue to perform periodic leak checks until a spare MTL jumper is flown. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten-billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The CIR Optics bench was rotated out from the rack and the Chamber Pump gas connections were retightened prior to rotating bench back into the rack. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
rHEALTH: A crewmember operated the rHEALTH Analyzer for the rHEALTH Hardware Demo in order to determine flow cytometry in microgravity. The rHEALTH ONE Microgravity Demonstration (rHEALTH) is intended to establish whether the technology used by this modified, commercial off-the-shelf device can identify and analyze biomarkers, cells, microorganisms, and proteins in the spaceflight environment. The device uses flow cytometry technology to sort and identify cells. This technology could be used to provide quick and accurate measurements of biological indicators related to disease, infection, or environmental exposure on future long-duration exploration missions.
Standard Measures: Saliva hardware setup was completed for specified crewmembers and a cognition test was performed. Spaceflight Standard Measures (Standard Measures) collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crew members until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Vascular Aging: A crewmember donned the Bio-Monitor Garment and Headband and connected the hardware to the Data Unit. A calibration was performed, and a 48-hour data collection session was initiated. Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Systems:
Treadmill 2 (T2) Yearly Maintenance: The crew performed both the 6-month and yearly T2 preventative inspections and maintenance actions. During these tasks, the crew inspected the tread belt slats and screws, cleaned the treadmill drive shaft, greased forward and rear axles, vacuumed inside the rack and around the treadmill, and inspected the umbilical panel and the bungee shackle key mount witness marks. The MTL hoses were also inspected to provide long-term trending of previously-completed repair work. An unmanned activation and checkout was completed and ground specialists are reviewing the data to verify T2 remains GO for exercise.
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the water processing assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.

