
Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) #2:  The crew opened the Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) inner hatch and extended the Airlock slide table into the JEM. They detached and stowed samples for return to the ground from the Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP).  The ExHAM is a cuboid mechanism equipped with a fixture on the upper surface for grappling by the JEM Remote Manipulator System Small Fine Arm, and components on the under surface for attaching the ExHAM to the handrail on the JEM EF. 
Team Task Switching:  A crewmember completed a Team Task Switching survey today.  When crew members are often required to switch their attention between tasks, performance on each of the tasks can be affected.  The objective of the Team Task Switching investigation is to gain knowledge about whether or not crew members have difficulty in switching tasks and determine the impacts of these switches, in order to both reduce any negative consequences and improve individual and team motivation and effectiveness. 
Cygnus On-board Training: Today, the crewmembers scheduled to capture OA9 (Cygnus) performed a Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. OA9 is currently on track to launch on May 20th and be berthed to ISS on May 24th.
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Crew Activities:  Today the crew performed Post-EVA medical evaluations, airlock reconfigurations, and a water recharge on the Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) used during the EVA.  They also conducted an EVA debrief with ground specialists. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Overnight, robotics controllers supported post-EVA operations by unstowing the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) with the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and translating the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite (WS) 6 to WS 8. Today, ground controllers used the MSS to transfer and install of the spare Pump Flow and Control Subsystem (PFCS) to the P6 long spacer.  After the PFCS has was transferred, the ground robotics team began a series of follow-on tasks to get the MSS ready for OA-9 capture and berthing on Thursday, May 24. 
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Hardware Checkouts: Once the ground robotics flight controllers completed relocating the spare PFCS to the P6 long spacer, ground controllers were able to regain insight into the PFCS and perform a firmware prefresh. A checkout of the ammonia Flow Control Valve (FCV) is planned for tomorrow. Ground controllers were also able to verify proper functionality of the new Space to Ground Transmitter Receiver Controller (SGTRC) and the Camera Port #13 (CP13) External Television Camera Group (ETVCG). 

