
37 Soyuz (37S) Undock and Landing:  Expedition 39 Commander (CDR) Wakata,  Flight Engineer (FE)-4 Tyurin and FE-5 Mastracchio closed the hatches to the 37S vehicle and undocked their spacecraft from the ISS today at 5:36 p.m. CDT, marking the start of Expedition 40.  The Soyuz landed outside of Dzhezkazgan, Kazakhstan at 8:58 p.m CDT. The crew’s return completes 187 days in space. CDR Swanson, FE-1 Skvortsov and FE-2 Artemyev will operate the ISS as a three-person crew until the arrival of three additional crew members on May 28.
Salivary Markers Blood Collection: With the help of FE-5 Mastracchio, ISS CDR Swanson collected his midpoint blood collection for Salivary Markers. This sample will be returned ambient on 37 Soyuz. These samples will be used to measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays. This research study will help identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system. Maintaining a robust immune system during prolonged spaceflight missions (i.e., to other planets or asteroids) will be important to ensure mission success. If any impairment in immunity is found due to spaceflight, this will allow the development of appropriate countermeasures to help mitigate the risks.
Protein Crystal Growth (PCG) Removal: FE-6 Wakata removed the PCG samples from the Protein Crystallization Research Facility (PCRF) and stowed them in a canister bag for return on 37S. These samples have been in the PCRF since they were delivered to ISS on 38 Soyuz in March. High quality protein crystals can be obtained in microgravity conditions, which can provide detailed information regarding crystal structure for designing new drugs for diseases and catalysts for ecological applications.
Petri Plant Harvest: ISS CDR Swanson prepared the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) for Petri Plant harvest, and then removed the plant specimens from Petri Plates and inserted them into Kennedy Space Center (KSC) Fixation Tubes (KFTs) in preparation for return on SpaceX-3. The Petri Plants investigation focuses on the growth and development of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings in the spaceflight environment, with a specific focus on how a root knows which direction to grow in when gravity is absent. Plants are grown in agar, a nutrient solution with a gelatin-like consistency, and exposed to light or dark conditions. Plants are harvested on-orbit, preserved with a chemical preservative, and returned to the ground for post-flight evaluation.
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) Trips:  The RPC (N3A51B4A-A Remote Power Controller (RPC)- 17) powering the Sabatier compressor tripped this morning.  Initial data review shows it was an over current trip.  The specialists are reviewing the data to determine future actions.  Additionally, RPCM LA1B-G RPC 3, powering Rack Flow Control Assembly for CIR, tripped open as a FET Controller Hybrid issue.  After five unsuccessful attempts to reset, the RPCM was changed to close inhibited. 

