
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD) Removal and NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer #7 (NRCSD) Installation: In preparation for next week’s NRCSD #7 deployment, the J-SSOD was removed from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) on the JEMAL Slide Table followed by installation of the NRCSD #7 onto the MPEP. The slide table was retracted into the JEMAL.  The J-SSOD is the first of its kind to deploy small satellites from the ISS. The NRCSD is a commercially operated small satellite deployer that maximizes full capabilities of each airlock cycle of deployments. The MPEP/NRCSD is put into position to be grabbed by the robotic arm which places the CubeSat deployer into the correct position for release of miniature satellites into proper orbit.
 
Rodent Research 3 (RR-3) CASIS: In preparation for next week’s RR-3 operations, crewmembers referenced the RR-3 Grip Strength, Bone Scan, and other required documentation before participating in a conference with the payload developer. They also gathered hardware to configure the Grip Strength equipment in the Microgravity Sciences Glovebox (MSG).
 
Skin-B Operations: The crew completed Corneometer, Tewameter and Visioscan measurements on his forearm. The Corneometer measures the hydration level of the stratus coreum (outer layer of the skin); the Tewameter measures the skin barrier function; and the Visioscan measures the skin surface topography. Skin B is a European Space Agency (ESA) investigation that aims to improve the understanding of skin aging, which is greatly accelerated in space. The data will also be used to verify the results from previous testing for the SkinCare investigation on the ISS.
 
NeuroMapping Operations: The crew set up hardware to support the NeuroMapping investigation and performed the experiment including testing in both a “strapped in” and ”free floating” body configuration. The investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it takes for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
 
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks was completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation.  This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after return to Earth’s gravity.
 
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Radio Frequency (RF) Checkout: The C2V2 Comm Units are two fully redundant radios (C2V2 A and C2V2 B) that are planned for use with future visiting vehicles. The units were installed on March 11 in the LAB with initial activation on April 1.  Today’s test commands and voice communication checkouts concluded the series of tests performed over the last several weeks to verify end to end functionality of both C2V2 Comm Units.
 

