
Microgravity Experiment Research Locker/INcubator (MERLIN) Desiccant Swap: The crew completed a routine desiccant swap on MERLIN1. These activities are performed as needed to maintain the desired humidity environment inside the units. MERLIN incubators are capable of storing samples at temperatures from -20.0°C to +48.5°C.  MERLIN is part of the Cold Stowage Fleet of hardware which includes Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER), Polar, and Coldbags. 
Microalgae Biosynthesis in Microgravity (MicroAlgae): The crew performed the daily mixing and deploy, periodic photography, and then stowed the experiment at the end of the day to maintain the day/night cycle for the algae. MicroAlgae studies the effects of microgravity on Haematococcus pluvialis, a tiny freshwater algae capable of producing a powerful antioxidant known as astaxanthin. It could provide a readily available dietary supplement to promote astronaut health on long-duration space exploration missions. This research was proposed by a community college student and alumna of the NASA Community College Aerospace Scholars (NCAS) program.
POLAR-2 desiccant swap: The crew replaced the used POLAR-2 desiccant pack with fresh desiccant. When humidity reached the target level, the unit will powered up as a backup cold stowage capability for items in EXPRESS rack 9B. POLAR is a Cold Stowage managed facility that provides transport and storage of science samples at cryogenic temperatures (-80ºC) to and from the ISS.  Its capable of holding 12.75 liters of volume.
Rodent Research-12 Operations: The crew performed operations for 10 of the mice. Rodent Research-12, Tetanus Antibody Response by B cells in Space (TARBIS), examines the effects of spaceflight on the function of antibody production and immune memory. Spaceflight is known to have a dramatic influence on immune response, but there is little research on its effect following an actual challenge to the body’s immune system. Using a mouse model makes this possible, as the mouse immune system closely parallels that of humans.
Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) Gas Trap Plug Installation: The crew installed gas trap plugs on the 6 USOS Pump Package Assemblies (PPAs). The plugs slow the release of ammonia escaping through the gas trap vent hole in the event of an Interface Heat Exchanger (IFHX) breach and reduces coolant leakage during ISS vacuum condition.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Ops: Overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite (WS)6 to WS7. Tonight, Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) will remove the failed Battery Charge Discharge Unit (BCDU) from ELC-1, maneuver it to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock, and install it on the JEM ORU Transfer Interface (JOTI). This activity is in preparation for crew packing of the failed BCDU for return on SpX-17.

