
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR)/Light Microscopy Module (LMM)/Biophysics-6:  At the conclusion of the LMM Bio-6 run, which began on 18-April, the crew removed the sample plate from the FIR/LMM and stowed it for return. Science teams reported they have not seen the expected crystal growth, but did see some areas with a precipitate and will perform further inspection and analysis once the plate is back on the ground.  LMM/Bio-6, more formally known as Growth Rate Dispersion as a Predictive Indicator for Biological Crystal Samples Where Quality Can Be Improved with Microgravity Growth, studies ground-based predictions of which crystals benefit from crystallization in microgravity, where Earth’s gravity does not interfere with their formation. The plate installed contains samples of Geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate synthase (GGPPS) which is a protein produced in osteoporosis, multiple myeloma, and Paget’s disease.Observing crystallized proteins via X-ray crystallography on the ground allows scientists to determine how they are built, which can explain how they work or how other molecules, such as drugs, might interact with them.
MicroAlgae: The crew performed the daily mixing and deploy, and stowed at the end of the day to maintain the day/night cycle for the algae.  Microalgae Biosynthesis in Microgravity (MicroAlgae) studies the effects of microgravity on Haematococcus pluvialis, a tiny freshwater algae capable of producing a powerful antioxidant known as astaxanthin. It could provide a readily available dietary supplement to promote astronaut health on long-duration space exploration missions. This research was proposed by a community college student and alumna of the NASA Community College Aerospace Scholars (NCAS) program.
Micro-14: Using the MSG, the crew inoculated a new culture bag and preserved the used culture bag.  The Micro-14 (Characterizing the Effects of Spaceflight on the Candida albicansAdaptation Responses) life science research mission investigates and evaluates responses of the C. albicans, a type of yeast, to microgravity conditions and, in particular, to assess changes at the physiological, cellular, and molecular level and to characterize virulence factors.
Rodent Research-12 Sample Gathering: The crew performed sample gathering activities for 10 of the mice. The activities went smoothly and were completed ahead of schedule. Rodent Research-12, Tetanus Antibody Response by B cells in Space (TARBIS), examines the effects of spaceflight on the function of antibody production and immune memory. Spaceflight is known to have a dramatic influence on immune response, but there is little research on its effect following an actual challenge to the body’s immune system. Using a mouse model makes this possible, as the mouse immune system closely parallels that of humans.
Node 2 Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Heat Exchanger (HX) Remove and Replace: The crew is currently completing replacement of the degraded N2 CCA HX with an on-orbit spare to support the additional heat loads generated by dual vehicle berthed operations. The CCAA is the primary component responsible for the control of temperature and humidity in the USOS segment and consists of a fan, a condensing heat exchanger, an air/water separator, temperature and liquid sensors, and electrical controlling hardware. The degraded unit is planned for return on SpX-18.
Emergency Egress Guidance System (EEGS) Installation: In preparation for United States Crew Vehicles (USCV), the crew installed new EEGS markers in Node 1 Forward to US Lab, US Lab Forward to Node 2, Airlock Port to Node 1, PMM Aft to Node 1, and Node 3 Starboard to Node 1 hatchways. Node 2 Zenith and Forward hatchways remain to be installed and will be scheduled at a later date. EEGS are Photo-luminescent markers that provide the crew with the path to their escape vehicles in the event an emergency requires an evacuation of ISS when power to the lights have failed.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last night and this morning ground controllers used the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to remove the failed Battery Charge Discharge Unit (BCDU) from ELC-1 and placed it onto the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock ORU Transfer Interface (JOTI). The crew will bring the failed BCDU inside ISS tomorrow in preparation for its return on SpX-17 currently planned for June 3.

