
Rodent Research-2 Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (RR-2 CASIS): Kelly performed a fixative flush and swapped the samples collected yesterday which he inserted into MELFI.  The primary objective of this research is to monitor the effects of the space environment on the musculoskeletal and neurological systems of mice as model organisms of human health and disease. Living in microgravity results in significant and rapid effects on the physiology of mice that mimic the process of aging and some diseases in humans on Earth, including muscle atrophy and the loss of bone mineral density. This project will help scientists to discover new molecular targets that can facilitate the development of novel therapeutics for the treatment of muscle and bone-related diseases. Long-duration exposure to microgravity will also induce changes in gene expression, protein synthesis, metabolism, and eye structure/morphology that will be identifiable as a series of assessable biomarkers for tracking the onset and progression of disease.
1-Year Mission (1YM) Human Research Program (HRP) Science Operations: Kelly performed the following suite of HRP activities today. 

The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the ISS. 
In the Fine Motor Skills experiment, crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.

Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Hardware Gather: Virts gathered the equipment for the CIR reconfiguration from FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 to the FLEX-2J scheduled for Wednesday. 
Node 1 (N1) and Node 2 (N2) Bacteria/Charcoal Filter Remove & Replace (R&R): Virts removed N1 bacteria filters and replaced them with charcoal filters. Using charcoal filters in Node 1 will reduce the ISS atmospheric Polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) concentration. Reducing the PDMS atmospheric concentration will subsequently reduce the quantity of dimethylsilanediol (DMSD) produced in the Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Condensing Heat Exchangers, thereby extending the life of the Multifiltration (MF) Beds that are in a zero spare posture. The bacteria filters that were removed from the N1 will replace the N2 Bacteria filters that were scheduled to be replace per preventative maintenance schedule.
Robotics Refueling Mission (RRM) Hardware Removal: Following the conclusion of last week’s RRM activities, Cristoferetti extended the JEMAL Slide Table (ST) into the Japanese Experiment Module Pressurized Module (JPM), brought the RRM Task Board-2 and Safety Cap Tool (SCT) into the ISS habitable volume and removed them from the JEMAL ST. The ST was then retracted from the JPM side and the inner hatch was closed.
Node 1 (N1) Stowage/Relocation: Cristoferetti began this activity to move infrequently used hardware from N1 to Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM)-1. This is to create space in the N1 for food stowage and the Galley Rack scheduled to arrive in August on H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-5.
Dragon Cargo Transfer Operations: As of today, the crew has approximately 11 hours of SpX-6 cargo operations remaining.

