
Payloads:
Celestial Immunity: The crew gathered the appropriate hardware and performed the second sampling for the gamma experiment wells, and the first sampling for the delta experiment wells. The samples were transferred to the Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MEFLI) to be preserved for return to the ground for analysis. This project seeks to gain a broad understanding of how gravity affects overall human immune function and potentially uncover novel pathways of immune function that can be exploited to develop better vaccines and immunobiologics for human use. The project will build on earlier studies that evaluated lymphocyte (a type of white blood cell) function in microgravity. The project will also evaluate whether gravity-regulated immune pathways are affected by age by examining cells from both young adult and elderly donors in parallel.
HRP blood setup: The crew set up the appropriate hardware in preparation for Friday’s Repository and Standard Measures blood collections.  Repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.  The goal of Standard Measures is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.
Ryutai: The crew replaced the current IPU cable with a new cable and the ground was subsequently able to complete a checkout. The Ryutai Experiment Rack (Ryutai), which means “fluid,” is a multipurpose payload rack system that includes a Fluid Physics Experiment Facility, Solution Crystallization Observation Facility, Protein Crystallization Research Facility, and image processing.
Systems:
Training for Emergency Response On-board ISS: Today Crew practiced an ISS Emergency Response As part of this simulation, Crew physically translated through the ISS to the appropriate response locations to visualize the use of station equipment and interfaces. They also practiced procedure, execution, and associated decision making based on cues provided by simulator. Finally, Crew practiced communication and coordination with both MCC-H and MCC-M, as required for a given emergency scenario.
SpaceX CRS-22 Prepack: In preparation for SpX-22 Dragon launch planned for June 3rd and arrival to ISS on June 5th, the crew began to pack items that will be returning to the ground when SpX-22 undocks from station later in the summer.  
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tether Inspection: Crew inspected the Load Alleviating Strap on Safety Tethers, Waist Tethers, and the soft strap on D-Ring Extenders. Prior to each series of EVAs, crew inspects all Tethers planned for use during the series. Between each EVA, only those Tethers used during the previous EVA and planned for further use during that series of EVAs require inspection.
Resupply Air Tank (RST) Venting: Today, two Resupply Air Tanks were vented in the Cygnus Vehicle. Twelve Resupply Air Tanks arrived on NG-15. Six tanks remain to be vented after today’s operation. Another venting activity for two tanks is planned for Friday GMT 134.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Acoustic Monitoring: Crew-held acoustic monitors were used to take acoustic measurements at specified locations on ISS after the venting of several RSTs. The acoustic monitoring sessions gather data to characterize any changes to the acoustic environment throughout the station.
Node 2 Water Separator Replacement Preparation: Today the Node 2 and Lab Low Temperature Loop (LTL) coolant temperatures are being adjusted to manage the dew point in Node 2 and promote dry out of the Node 2 water separator. R&R is planned for tomorrow to address the vibration noticed by the crew in their Crew Quarters.

