
Rodent Research-3 (RR-3) Transfer and Grip Strength Operations: The crew transferred rodents from their habitats to the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and successfully performed grip strength measurements on all 20 rodents. The crew also installed hardware and restocked supplies in the MSG to prepare for other RR-3 operations planned for the remainder of the week. The investigation studies the molecular and physical changes to the musculoskeletal system that happen in space. Results will expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer #7 (NRCSD 7) Deployment Operations: NRCSD 7 successful deployed the MinXSS and CADRE satellites from Silo 8 at 5:05 AM CDT and STMSat-1, NODeS 1, and NODeS 2 satellites from Silo 7 at 9:20 AM CDT today via ground commanding. Today completes the first of three consecutive days of deployment operations planned for the week. NRCSD 7 contains 17 satellites comprised of MinXSS, CADRE, STMSat-1, 2 NODes, 8 Doves, and 4 LEMUR satellites. The NRCSD is a commercially operated small satellite deployer from the ISS, maximizing full capabilities of each airlock cycle of deployments.
 
Station Support Computer (SSC) for Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Laptop Preparation: The crew deployed the BEAM laptop that will be used to operate sensors in the BEAM module in Node 3. The laptop was configured to the Load Image Client (LIC) mode to prepare for upcoming BEAM operations.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Suit Maintenance: The crew performed maintenance tasks on EMU 3003 and EMU 3010 including an EMU swap, water tank dump and fill, a loop scrub, a post-loop scrub water sample, and an EMU conductivity test.  Forward work includes additional cooling loop maintenance and EMU dryout.
 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Graphic Interface Unit (GUI) Software Issues: Last Thursday, the crew reported several issues with the T2 Graphic User Interface (GUI) software which was updated on May 4.  A FIT was held and recommended software configuration changes to work around the issues.  Parameters in the software were updated on Friday afternoon to disable nuisance warning messages and minimize the slowing and/or stopping of the T2 caused by Command and Logic Unit (CLU) to GUI communication issues. Since the software updates were implemented, initial crew feedback has been positive.
 
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Status: During a process cycle on Thursday night, the stationary bowl temperature in the Distillate Assembly (DA) dropped enough to activate thermostatically-controlled heaters which caused the condenser pressure to increase. The UPA was taken to standby. Due to continued concerns regarding elevated conductivity and precipitation events, a FIT was held and one of the recommendations was to R&R the brine filter which was completed today.  The UPA will remain down and the Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) will remain configured to internal EDV. An Advanced Recycle Filter Tank Assembly (ARFTA) R&R as well as conversion of the WHC to alternate pretreat have been planned for tomorrow.
 

