
Payloads:
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM): The crew checked the APM hardware and display, and notified the ground team of the status. Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. APM demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT): The location of the large BCAT mixing magnet and its magnet keeper were verified. Many of the BCAT investigations used colloidal systems to model and investigate processes on Earth such as phase separation, critical point behavior, etc. The objectives for the BCAT series of investigations were completed several years ago, but some of the BCAT support equipment is useful for other investigations.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction/Growth and Extinction Limit (CIR/SoFIE/GEL): In support of a corrective action, the crew gained access to the CIR/SoFIE combustion area, inspected, and removed part of the igniter arm. The igniter arm has been stuck at a location close to the log flow duct, and this is the first step to resolving the issue. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the CIR that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies, providing common infrastructure including sample holders, flow control, test sections, external radiant heaters, igniters, and diagnostics for multiple investigations. The GEL experiment studies burning in microgravity, measuring the amount of heating in a fuel sample to determine how fuel temperature affects material flammability. Results could improve understanding of early fire growth behavior and help determine optimal fire suppression techniques, improving crew safety in future space facilities.
ISS Ham: The crew participated in two ISS Ham passes with Webb Bridge Middle School in Alpharetta, Georgia, and Fairview Elementary in Olathe, Kansas. Some of the questions asked by the crew included how the crew communicates with their family, how the crew takes the trash out in space, and how plants are grown on ISS. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about nine minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: In preparation for the upcoming ISS Roll-Out Solar Arrays (IROSA) EVAs, the crew set up the Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) Onboard Trainer (OBT) to review the operation of the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) ECWS and practiced EVA Cuff Checklist procedures. Next, the crew conducted a Virtual Reality Training (VRT) to re-familiarize themselves with the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER), then performed a degassing of the Contingency Water Container – Iodinated (CWC-I). Finally, the crew verified the functionality of the EMU Gloves Heaters, EMU Data Recorder, EMU TV, HD EMU Camera, and Helmet Lights on EMUs as a part of the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Powered Hardware Checkout.
Dragon Rendezvous Computer Based Training (CBT): In preparation for the Axiom-2 (Ax-2) Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) next week, the crew relocated Station Support Computers (SSC) into the Cupola and Lab in support of Crewed Dragon Docking Monitoring. The crew also performed a Rendezvous Review CBT including docking target assessments, Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Model Training, the Rendezvous and Proximity Operations Program (RPOP), and videos of nominal and off-nominal Dragon approaches. Lastly, the crew conducted an OBT Conference with the ground team after reviewing the information. The Ax-2 mission is currently scheduled to launch on Sunday, May 21st.
Crew Alternate Sleep Accommodation (CASA) Bumpout Deploy and Cleaning: In preparation for the Ax-2 PAM next week, the crew deployed the CASA Bumpout for increased crew occupancy and connected ducting to the Columbus Module (COL) Diffuser. After this, the crew cleaned the CASA interior liner and vents and confirmed the location of door stops. This is typically performed as crew is moving into CASA after previously being used for stowage. CASA is a crew accommodation to allow for long duration stay, permanent shelter, privacy, rest and relaxation, storage of personal items, and stowage when an additional crewmember is not present.
