
Tropical Cyclone: The crew configured the camera settings in the Cupola to support the capture of a series of photographs of the Kilauea volcano in Hawaii. The images will be used to create 3 dimensional images of the craters that have formed as a result of the volcanic eruptions.
Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) #2: Last night ground robotics controllers used the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Small Fine Arm to transfer the Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP) from the JEM External Facility to the Slide Table. Later this week, the Slide Table will be brought back into the JEM and ExHAM samples will be exchanged before the HXP is returned to the JEM External Facility.
Two Phase Flow (TPF): This morning the crew deactivated the TPF experiment equipment in the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) for the experiment run completed overnight. The Two-Phase Flow experiment investigates the heat transfer characteristics of flow boiling in the microgravity environment. This experiment provides a fundamental understanding of the behaviors of bubble formation, liquid-vapor flow in a tube, and how heat transfers in cooling systems. Two-phase flow employs a sample cooling loop using perfluorohexane, often used in coolants for electronics, to establish flow rate and heating power in different conditions. 
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): Today the crew retrieved eight RaDI-N detectors from a US Laboratory module location and handed them over to a Russian crewmember for processing. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation measures neutron radiation levels in the ISS. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for tomorrow’s US EVA 50 Pump and Flow Control Subassembly (PFCS) Relocate, the crew printed off their suit cuff checklists and finalized their EVA tool configurations. Once completed, the crew performed an audit of their EVA tool configuration and reviewed the EVA briefing package which includes a detailed timeline of their scheduled activities and procedures for dealing with off-nominal situations.  The crew also participated in a conference with ground EVA specialists and discussed their review of the briefing packet.  The crew is scheduled to egress the airlock at 7:15 AM CDT tomorrow morning. 
Common Communications for Visiting Vehicles (C2V2) Checkout: This afternoon, the crew performed a successful checkout the C2V2 Portable Computer System (PCS) Command Panel in support of the upcoming Orbital-ATK Cygnus (OA-9) mission.  The test verified crew command capability between ISS and a simulated Cygnus vehicle and is required ahead of the scheduled launch of OA-9 on 20-May.  OA-9 will be the first Orbital vehicle to utilize the newer C2V2 system for approach and capture.

