ISS On-Orbit Status 05/14/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – crew off duty.
 
CDR Kondratyev, FE-1 Samokutyayev &amp; FE-2 Borisenko worked several hours in the SM (Service Module) on the Elektron-VM electrolysis machine to restore it to function.  Activation of the O<sub>2</sub> generator is scheduled on Monday (5/16).      [After yesterday’s deinstallation &amp; removal of the failed Elektron BZh Liquid Unit, the crew today installed the spare BZh #056 and its BSSK signal &amp; command matching unit, then connected BZh &amp; BSSK to the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry system for ground checkout, supported by ground specialist tagup via S-band.  The Liquid Unit BZh #056, delivered on Progress M-59/24P in 2007, has been in storage since March 2007, regularly serviced by cosmonauts over the years by pressure-testing it with N<sub>2</sub> (nitrogen) for hermeticity.  It now replaced the failed unit which has exceeded its certified life time by a factor of 3.  A new BZh will be delivered on Progress M-11M/43P on 6/23.]
 
The six-member crew joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).       ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
After yesterday’s successful activation of the MCA (Major Constituent Analyzer) in the Lab by the ground and its pump-out, FE-3 Garan today closed its HV01 valve and disconnected the “anaconda” air hose.     [The MCA stays in Operate State for 3 days to allow the mass spectrometer to settle out, followed by a full calibration on Monday, 5/16.  The data is not valid until full calibration is performed, and “special accuracy” will be used until 6 full calibrations are completed.  After a successful full calibration the Lab MCA it will be considered prime for the upcoming ULF6 mission and Stage.  The issue, exhibiting erroneous data last year, was due to its newer firmware (Vers. 4.24).  The Node-3 MCA continued to operate nominally with the older firmware (Vers. 4.18) without issue.  Modifications to the new MCA firmware are in work that will eliminate a data problem and the erroneous calculation of water vapor ECVs (Electrometer Calculation Values).] 
 
FE-6 Coleman activated the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and started playback/downlink of her “Kids in Micro-G” recordings yesterday.  POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routed the on-board HRDL (High-Rate Data Link) system.  After ~2 hrs, MPC was turned off again.
 
CDR Kondratyev completed his 3<sup>rd</sup> preliminary orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test run with the Russian Chibis suit in preparation for his return to gravity on 5/23 with Soyuz 25S (along with FE-5 Nespoli &amp; FE-6 Coleman.  Dmitri conducted the ODNT exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure ODNT device (US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the T2/COLBERT treadmill, assisted by FE-1 Samokutyayev as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).   The CDR was supported in his one-hour session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 6:43am EDT.     [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of the crewmember’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  Data output includes blood pressure readings.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by one cycle of a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -20, -25, -30, and -35 mmHg for five min. each, while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, while wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure and the REG SHKO Rheoencephalogram Biomed Cap.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]
 
FE-2 Borisenko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
At ~4:55am, Italian Flight Engineer Paolo Nespoli powered up the new amateur radio station in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and at ~5:05am conducted a ham radio session with students at the Primary school "Pasquale Luisi", Castelluccio Valmaggiore, Foggia, Italy.
 
At ~7:17am, Aleksandr Samokutyayev had his weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
At ~9:00am, Dima, Sasha, Andrey, Ron, Paolo &amp; Cady held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~11:20am, CDR, FE-1 &amp; FE-2 used the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) for another ham radio session with students, schoolchildren and participants in the “Science-Technology &amp; Innovation Achievements of Russia” Exhibition in Madrid, Spain.     [These ham radio sessions, organized by Kursk South-West University, were scheduled last Friday, yesterday and today.] 
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR/2x, FE-1, FE-2, FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1).
 
WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.       [The new card (27-0041H) lists 113 CWCs (2,169.7 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (10 CWCs with 392.0 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 87.0 L in 3 bags containing Wautersia bacteria and 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use;  2. Silver potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (91 CWCs with 1,668.3 L for reserve (also 14 expired bags with 251.5 L);  4. condensate water (76.6 L in 5 bags, plus 5 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (32.8 L in 2 CWCs from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 

