
USOS Crew Reduced Duty Day: Today was a reduced duty day for the USOS Crew as a result of sleep shifting in preparation for SpaceX-6 departure on Thursday, 21 May 2015.
Fluid Shifts Before, During and After Prolonged Space Flight and Their Association with Intracranial Pressure and Visual Impairment (Fluid Shifts): Kornienko begun his Flight Day (FD) 45 Fluid Shifts Dilution Measurements today, with the assistance of Padalka as his Crew Medical Officer (CMO).  Upon wakeup he collected baseline saliva, blood and urine and inserted them into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) prior to ingesting a Sodium Bromide (NaBr) tracer.  Throughout the day, he performed more urine, blood, and saliva collections, inserting those samples into MELFI as well.  The Dilution Measurements are the first part in the series of FD45 Fluid Shifts measurements. Next week, Kelly and Kornienko will be performing their Baseline Imaging using the ultrasound.  The third portion of the Fluid Shifts experiment involves utilization of the Russian Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure – LBNP) during ultrasound measurements.  Fluid Shifts investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Ocular Health: Virts with Cristoforetti as his CMO, and ground remote guidance, performed his Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) exam to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer as required for his Return-30 (R-30) Ocular Health sessions.  Later in the day, he executed his fundoscope exam to obtain images of the retinal surface, again with Cristoforetti and ground assistance.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Commercial Orbital Transport Services (COTS) UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Checkout:  In preparation for the upcoming SpaceX-6 departure, Kelly worked with ground teams to activate the CUCU System and successfully performed a Crew Command Panel (CCP) checkout. CUCU provides a command and telemetry communications link between ISS and Dragon during free flight operations in the vicinity of ISS.  
Dragon Cargo Transfer Operations: Today, Cristoforetti continued with Dragon cargo operations.  The crew has approximately 3 hours of SpaceX-6 cargo operations remaining.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Robotics Flight Controllers walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off of worksite 4 Mobile Remote Servicer (MRS) Base System Power and Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 1 to the Node2 PDGF. Once the walk off was complete, they commanded the SSRMS to grapple Dragon in preparation for Thursday’s unberth and release.   In conjunction with today’s operations, Flight Controllers also performed a checkout of Latching End Effector A (LEE-A), and performed commissioning on the SSRMS Gear Box Limping (GBL) feature.  The LEE-A checkout gathered additional data on latching currents since the LEE-A was lubricated on Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 30 in February.  The GBL feature produces greater arm compliance than passive limping, and is intended to reduce the required rigidization force to capture a fixed grapple fixture.  Later today the Robotics Ground Controllers will maneuver LEE-B to grapple the SpaceX-6 Dragon Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) ready for Dragon unberth and release on GMT 141 (21 May 15). They will also perform an initial checkout of GBL on LEE-B during this operation.

