
Payloads:
Dreams: The crew doffed the Dreams dry-electroencephalogram (EEG) headband, charged it, and then set it up for a later science session. Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance. The Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (Dreams) is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the ISS.
Immunity Assay (IA): Post-incubation sample centrifugation and related activities were performed in support of the continuing IA science session. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a sample, with the help of a functional immune test. Until now, this test could only be accomplished on Earth, and conducted pre- and post-flight. With the help of a newly developed assay tube, researchers can also execute this test inflight, which allows for a much clearer assessment of the immune changes that happen in flight.
Space Health: The crew donned the Bio-Monitor sensor garment and answered a questionnaire for the Space Health session, which spans two days. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after a mission to the ISS to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. The Artemis analytical platform is used to provide automated analysis of the cardiovascular system in order to develop a near real-time assessment tool. The potential use of the Bio-Monitor system and the Artemis platform for future space missions is evaluated.
Zero Robotics (ZR): The crew assisted with the performance of a Zero Robotics dry run session. In the dry run sessions, the Astrobee free fliers are used to verify various aspects and programming for the actual Zero Robotics student competition. In Astrobee-Zero Robotics, students write software to control one of the space station’s Astrobee free-flying robots. Finalists have their code transferred by NASA to the Astrobee platform and observe its performance as it tries to solve the problems associated with the ZR challenge. The experience helps inspire the next generation of scientists, engineers, and explorers.
Systems:
Treadmill 2 (T2) Rack Rotation and Data Avionics Unit (DAU) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew rotated the T2 Rack out of NOD3F5 to gain access to internal T2 components. Next, the crew removed and replaced the T2 DAU, inspected the Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Line, and performed a fan cleaning of the Avionics Air Assembly (AAA). T2 is the second generation ISS treadmill intended for use by USOS crewmembers to maintain crew health during extended visits to the ISS.
Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) Removal from Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (AL) Slide Table (ST): Today, the crew removed the MPEP from the JEM AL ST by removing the MPEP Adaptor Plate and relocating the JEM AL ST Passive Capture Mechanism. The crew then stowed the MPEP in the JEM Experiments Logistics Module – Pressurized (JLP) 1 Bay 2 Corridor. The MPEP is a JEM AL hardware transfer platform that utilizes a power/data/video interface for operations inside and outside the ISS in order to deploy specific payloads.
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) TV and Helmet Light Installation: In preparation for the upcoming ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) EVAs, the crew installed restraint straps, EMU TV, and helmet lights onto the helmet of EMU 3004. EMU TV, or the EMU Radio Frequency (RF) Camera Assembly (ERCA), provides three views via three lenses for close up and macro views. The ERCA is a mechanical interface that connects the EVA Helmet Interchangeable Portable Light (EHIP Light) and the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA), which provides power.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) NOD3D4 Inspection: Today, the crew accessed and rotated the NOD3D4 left access panel and inspected the Distillation Assembly (DA) Purge Hose for kinks. The DA is an Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) in the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) in the Water Recovery System 2 (WRS-2) Rack. The DA receives pretreated urine from the Fluid Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) and contains a centrifuge that separates the fluid into distillate, brine, and gas.
