
Payloads:
Acoustic Diagnostics: Acoustic Diagnostics Instrument hardware was deinstalled and stowed. The Acoustic Upgraded Diagnostics In-Orbit (Acoustic Diagnostics) investigation tests the hearing of ISS crew members before, during, and after flight. This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
Vascular Aging: The 13-hour blood pressure collection session was completed, and the hardware was stowed. A specific meal was prepared for an upcoming Vascular Aging Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) session. The wearable Bio-Monitor was removed and disconnected from the Data Unit. Data was transferred from the Data Unit and the wearable Headband and Garment were set out to dry. Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Systems:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Maintenance: As part of maintenance activities after a cable came out of the right detent, the crew removed and replaced the left and right ARED detents, which are used to guide the ARED cables. After determining that the previously-removed Cable Arm Ropes (CARs) are viable for reinstallation, the crew installed the CARs and applied proper tension and inspected the cable-pulley system bearings. ARED was then operated to verify proper functionality and the crew and ground teams performed additional adjustments. ARED is currently No-Go for use.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Water Container (ЕДВ-У) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew built a new ЕДВ- У and R&Red the existing ЕДВ- У in the WHC. The ЕДВ- У is intended for liquid waste collection.
Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The crew moved the Urine Transfer Compressor Hoses to a different Urine Transfer System (UTS) port, and then set up the recycle tank to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the UTS. Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
Boeing Orbital Flight Test 2 (Boe-OFT2) Mission Prep: In preparation for the arrival of Boe-OFT-2, the crew completed an overview of Starliner vehicle monitoring including instructions for starting Rendezvous/Proximity Operations Program (RPOP) in a playback mode as well as several videos of Starliner approach. The crew then participated in a conference with key ground team members.
Emergency Health Maintenance System Contingency Drill Training: Periodic training was completed by the crew which provided the opportunity to review procedures, hardware, and communication methods necessary to manage a medical emergency onboard ISS. Emergency medical equipment was deployed and crew practiced CPR positioning to ensure familiarity with procedure execution should a medical emergency occur.

