
Payloads:
There were no Payload activities today.
Systems:
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 1 Zenith Hatch Troubleshooting: Today, the crew performed troubleshooting on the Node 1 Zenith Hatch, which the crew had been unable to open earlier this year to access the Z1 Dome. As part of the troubleshooting, the crew removed the hatch Manual Pressure Equalization Valve (MPEV) and set up an endoscope that was fed through the removed MPEV hole to survey the EV side of the hatch. The crew was able to push the crank handle and open the hatch. The Z1 dome is largely used for cargo operations.
IFM Ku-Band Power Supply Install: Today, the crew installed a Ku-band power supply at NOD3A3 with two power cables as a get-ahead task for the future installation of the Purge Pump and Separator Assembly (PPSA) in the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA). The PPSA is a UPA upgrade that combines the Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA), Separator Plumbing Assembly (SPA), and Purge Gas 20 Micron Filter into a single Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU).
Hatch Seal Inspection: Today, the crew cleaned and inspected the hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surface, crank handle mechanism, hatch seal interlocking joints, and Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) hatch kicker pins for damage or foreign object debris (FOD). This was performed on the Forward, Nadir, and Starboard Node 3 hatches, the PMM, the Port and Starboard Airlock (A/L) hatches, the Zen Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Pressurized Module (JPM) hatch, and the JEM Experiment Logistics Module – Pressurized (JLP) hatch. Any areas of interest were photographed for analysis on the ground.
Node 3 Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS) Air Sensors Install:  The crew installed the COTS air sensors (O2 Trending Sensor, Adlink CO2 Sensor, RH Trending Sensor) in the Node 3 module. The Node 3 Adlink CO2 Sensor was already present and was connected to the Urine Transfer System (UTS) Adlink Mini PC. The COTS air sensors are standalone sensors that will measure H20, CO2, and O2 levels on station.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Cooling Loop Maintenance Scrub: The crew performed ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) of EMUs 3004, 3003, Hard Upper Torso (HUT) ORU 2036, and A/L cooling water loops. Conductivity readings and a water sample were taken from the cooling loop following the 70-minute scrub. Finally, crew terminated, deconfigured, and checked out the EMUs. EMU loop scrubs are required preventative maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU cooling loop. The EMU is an independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit.
