
Kidney Cells: On Sunday, the crew performed the Kidney Cell fixation inside the Life Science Glovebox (LSG).  Following this, the Kidney Cells hardware was removed from the LSG and prepared for return.  Fixation is a group of techniques used in biological science to preserve samples and terminate ongoing biochemical reactions in preparation for later analysis.  Effects of Microgravity on the Structure and Function of Proximal and Distal Tubule Microphysiological System (MPS), or Kidney Cells, examines how kidney health is affected by microgravity and other factors of space travel, including increased chemical exposure, water conservation and recycling, and altered dietary intake. Serious medical conditions caused by poor kidney health, including protein in the urine (proteinuria), osteoporosis, and kidney stones, occur more often and more quickly in space. Knowledge gained can help protect the health of astronauts as well as contribute to better treatments for kidney related conditions on Earth.
MVP Cell-01 nutrient replace: Over the weekend, the crew removed Experiment Modules from the Multi-use Variable-g Platform, exchanged the nutrients, and reinstalled the Experiment Modules back into the Multi-use Variable-g Platform.  The investigation studies a disease called Post-traumatic Osteoarthritis, in which a traumatic joint injury may lead to arthritis after loss of cartilage and bone. The ability of potential drugs to prevent the progression of this disease is tested on Earth and in space. The MVP facility is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others.  It includes internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity.
Astrobee mapping: The crew manually translated the Astrobee Free Flyer in various attitudes in the JEM and Node 2. The goal is to collect visual data to create a map of the JPM, and to calibrate Astrobee.  The activities went very smoothly and the ground team was happy with the results. Astrobee is a series of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew-monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
ISS Experience: The crew set up the ISS Experience hardware to document the Veggie PONDS photo activities today. Talking points involved discussion of the importance of plant growth systems to Moon and Mars missions, discussion on the PONDS growth system itself, and the reason for the pink growth light in the Veggie system. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the ISS, and the international partnerships involved.  The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Micro-14: Using the MSG, the crew inoculated the culture bag with yeast. The Micro-14 (Characterizing the Effects of Spaceflight on theCandida albicans Adaptation Responses) life science research mission investigates and evaluates the responses of the C. albicans, a type of yeast, to microgravity conditions and, in particular, to assess changes at the physiological, cellular, and molecular level and to characterize virulence factors.
Nano Antioxidants: The crew removed the twelve experiment containers from Kubik after the completion of the automated run. The aim of the Nano Antioxidants investigation is to research innovative approaches for cellular stimulation to counteract the negative effects of long-term microgravity on the musculoskeletal system. There are numerous possible applications of this research project in other crucial social domains, such as healthcare of the elderly and of people with muscle atrophy disorders, through the implementation of new therapeutic strategies in the treatment of diseases involving oxidative stress as causing factor.
Photobioreactor (PBR):  The crew removed the vent closeout panels from the Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack and installed PBR into the appropriate locker location. However, when the PBR was subsequently powered on, an off-nominal screen display was observed.  A power-cycle was attempted and gave a nominal display momentarily, but it quickly transitioned to the off-nominal condition again. Ground teams are reviewing the log files to determine a forward plan and PBR was deactivated. The life support systems that sustain astronauts in space are based on physicochemical processes. The Photobioreactor investigation aims to demonstrate that microalgae (i.e. biological processes) can be used together with existing systems to improve recycling of resources, creating a hybrid life support system. This hybrid approach could be helpful in future long-duration exploration missions, as it could reduce the amount of consumables required from Earth, and will first be tested in space on the International Space Station (ISS).
Veggie PONDS (Passive Orbital Nutrient Delivery System): The crew took photos of the PONDS modules in both Veggie facilities from overhead and oblique angles. Today’s operations were to study the water distribution in the PONDS units in an attempt to better understand why the plants do not appear to be growing as expected. Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food. Therefore, understanding how plants respond to microgravity and demonstrating the reliable vegetable production on orbit are important steps toward that goal. Veggie PONDS uses a newly developed passive nutrient delivery system and the Veggie plant growth facility aboard the ISS to cultivate lettuce and mizuna greens which are to be harvested on-orbit, and consumed, with samples returned to Earth for analysis.
Airflow Measurement Survey: In support of monitoring the health of the ISS InterModule Ventilation (IMV) system, the crew used the Velocicalc device and set of measurement aids to measure the air flow exiting outlets and entering inlets throughout the USOS modules.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Friday night, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and positioned it over the Dragon trunk. They then maneuvered the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm 2 to stow the SCAN Testbed payload in the Dragon trunk for return. 

