
Payloads:
Astrobee/Integrated System for Autonomous and Adaptive Caretaking (ISAAC)-SoundSee:  An Astrobee session was performed using navigation capabilities of the ISAAC investigation and the sound monitoring capabilities of the SoundSee investigation.  ISAAC is a research project to develop technology for autonomous caretaking of human exploration vehicles, especially during extended periods when astronauts are away.  Investigation of Deep Audio Analytics on the International Space Station (SoundSee Mission) tests monitoring of the acoustic environment using an audio sensor on Astrobee.  Microphones collect acoustic information, and the Astrobee determines the sensor’s position.
Bio-Monitor:  New configuration files were loaded in support of upcoming Bio-Monitor and Vascular Aging science.  Bio-Monitor is a Canadian onboard instrument that serves as a platform for scientific experiments on the ISS. The instrument performs on-orbit monitoring of crew member physiological parameters, with wearable sensors that only minimally interfere with crew member daily activities.
Photocatalyst:  Following the completion of the month-long experiment, the Photocatalyst hardware was removed and stowed.  Photocatalyst demonstrates the use of a photocatalyst device to clean the cabin air and remove odor caused by volatile organic compounds (VOCs). The device converts VOCs into carbon dioxide and water. The device and a non-photocatalyst control device will operate for at least four weeks before returning to Earth for analysis of the photocatalyst device’s effectiveness.
rHEALTH demo:  The rHEALTH systems was set up, and a series of demonstration runs were performed.  The rHEALTH ONE Microgravity Demonstration (rHEALTH) is intended to establish whether the technology used by this modified, commercial off-the-shelf device can identify and analyze biomarkers, cells, microorganisms, and proteins in the spaceflight environment. The device uses flow cytometry technology to sort and identify cells. This technology could be used to provide quick and accurate measurements of biological indicators related to disease, infection, or environmental exposure on future long-duration exploration missions.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Dose Pump and Pretreat Tank Remove and Replace: The crew performed WHC troubleshooting today, steps included changing out the dose pump, pre-treat tank and ЕК hose.  At the end of today’s troubleshooting the WHC continues to be no-go for use.  Ground teams are developing additional troubleshooting steps to be performed tomorrow.
Boeing Orbital Flight Test 2 (Boe-OFT2) Mission Prep: Today the crew reviewed the OFT mission procedures and Starliner vehicle rendezvous and departure computer based training.  Teams continue to prepare for a Boe-OFT launch on 19-May-2022. 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Out of Pulley: This morning the crew reported hearing a clunk during ARED exercise and discovered that a cable had come out of its pulley.  Crew took photos and ARED was declared GO for bar exercise only while the detents are engaged. Ground specialist are investigating the forward plan to restore the cable exercise capability.

