
Payloads:
BioServe Centrifuge: The crew assembled the BioServe Centrifuge to allow charging of the internal components, followed by a checkout of the facility. The BioServe Centrifuge facility supports a wide variety of life, physical, and materials science research. It enables separation of substances with differing densities, including cell cultures, DNA, protein, blood, and sedimentation samples. The centrifuge is compatible with BioServe’s extensive array of investigation-specific hardware, including: Group Activation Packs, Fluids Processing Apparatuses, BioCells (single, 6-well, and 12-well), Plate Habitats, and insect and plant growth habitats. Small, portable, and easy to set up, the facility further enhances the ISS’s scientific capabilities.
Ring Sheared Drop-Interfacial Bioprocessing of Pharmaceuticals (RSD-IBP): The crew performed the steps necessary to install a new sample syringe and test cell in the RSD-IBP experiment hardware. The ground team later commanded the deployment of a large drop of liquid (up to 25mm in diameter) into the system for processing. The RSD module is a containerless liquid system that makes it possible to study protein solutions without the effects of interactions with solid walls. RSD-IBP studies the behavior of high-concentration protein fluids and tests computer models for predicting that behavior. More accurate models could enable production of next-generation medicines for treating cancers and other diseases.
Systems:
Treadmill 2 (T2) Activities: Today, the crew began by realigning the Snubber Pin with the Snubber Cap via the Jam Nuts and then tightening all three Snubber Jam Nuts at each corner of the rack. Next, while the rack was free-floating, the T2 Rack was centered using the T2 Isolators and a tool fit check was performed on the rack sway space. The crew also ensured T2 components were performing nominally by executing an uncrewed speed characterization. Finally, the crew performed an active crewed Activation and Checkout (ACO) session.
Axiom 2 (Ax-2) Station Support Computer (SSC) Relocates: Today, the crew relocated SSC 7 from Node 2 (NOD2) to the Crew Alternate Sleep Accommodation (CASA), and SSC 13 from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to NOD2 for the upcoming Ax-2 crew. SSCs are the laptops associated with non-command activities onboard the ISS.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Setup and Refill of LAB Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) Accumulator: Today, the crew set up the FSS Fluid Control Pump Assembly (FCPA) and refilled the LAB MTL PPA Accumulator. Following this, the crew drained and purged the FSS FCPA and FSS jumpers. The ITCS provides equipment cooling and heat rejection through a combination of water loops and interface heat exchangers. The FSS is used to assist in the startup, maintenance, and repair of water lines and systems in racks on the ISS.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Activities: Today, the crew terminated the charge of EVA Li-Ion Batteries using the EVA Battery Operations Terminal (EBOT) and removed the batteries from the Battery Stowage Compartment. After installing new batteries into EBOT, the crew initiated a second round of charging. Next, the crew practiced donning the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) prior to the upcoming ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) EVAs. Finally, the crew installed Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Li-Ion Batteries into Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) 3004 and 3013.
Joint Station Local Access Network (LAN) (JSL) Firewall Preparation for JSLv15.1 Deployment: The crew reconfigured firewall and router connectivity for the JSLv15.1 Transition. The main driver of this transition is to implement automated JSL Firewall failure response. The JSL is the combination of the ISS USOS and RS networks into one integrated LAN with development responsibilities and management obligations shared amongst many NASA and RSC-E organizations.
