
Rodent Research-3 (RR-3) Operations: The crew has completed operations on 15 rodents. They are scheduled to perform operations on 5 rodents today and 5 more tomorrow which will conclude this session of RR activities.  The crew will perform bone densitometry measurements and then transfer the rodents to the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) for sample processing. This investigation studies the molecular and physical changes to the musculoskeletal system that occur in space. Results will expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
 
Sprint Ultrasound 2 Operations: The crew set up a camera and video, configured Ultrasound 2, placed reference marks on the calf and thigh of the right leg, donned Sprint (Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study) thigh and calf guides, and performed thigh and calf ultrasound scans with guidance from the Sprint ground team. Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
 
Thermolab Deinstrumentation for Circadian Rhythms: Following completion of a 36-hour measurement, the crew removed the double sensors and the Thermolab Unit before cleaning and stowing the equipment for European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) Circadian Rhythm experiment. The objective of the experiment is to get a better understanding of alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights. Such knowledge will provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time as well as significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest and work shifts and ensuring adequate workplace illumination.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations will help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status: Yesterday, 2 attempts to start the Distillation Assembly (DA) faulted out due to DA belt slippage. A subsequent attempt resulted in completion of a successful UPA process run. Another process run is now in progress.
 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Status: Following yesterday’s crew report of a loud noise during cable exercise, the ARED remains no-go for cable exercise but is go for bar exercise. Engineering teams met today and will recommend actions to restore full functionality.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Later today Robotics ground controllers will use the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and perform a video survey of the RapidScat payload.
 
Cygnus Cargo Transfer Status: The crew has completed approximately 26 hours of cargo transfer with approximately 21.5 hours remaining to be completed.
 

