
Payloads
AC Touch: Per standard procedure, the crew touched both of the coated and uncoated coupons for this long-term investigation.  Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests is an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space for approximately six months, then return to Earth for analysis.
Celestial Immunity: The crew set up the appropriate hardware, performed sample 1 operations for cell culture plate gamma, and initiated the experiment for cell culture delta ops.  Delta is the fourth of six total cell culture set of operations in the experiment.  This project seeks to gain a broad understanding of how gravity affects overall human immune function and potentially uncover novel pathways of immune function that can be exploited to develop better vaccines and immunobiologics for human use. The project will build on earlier studies that evaluated lymphocyte (a type of white blood cell) function in microgravity. The project will also evaluate whether gravity-regulated immune pathways are affected by age by examining cells from both young adult and elderly donors in parallel.
Story Time From Space-8 (STFS-8): The crew performed the second part of the STFS-8, using the black sphere to demonstrate heat flow.  Last week they performed the investigation with the white sphere installed, so that the differences in heat transfer can be compared.  Story Time From Space (STFS) combines literacy and science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subjects with basic science demonstrations. The Story Time From Space-8 Heat Transfer Demo uses a Sun-Earth-Space model to demonstrate concepts of radiative heat transfer. It is performed on the International Space Station by an astronaut and videotaped, along with a reading of the book Give Me Some Space, and the videos and educational materials are made available on the STFS website.
T2AR ops: The crew performed the science operations for the T2AR system.  The objective is to use the T2AR system to assist the crew with the ISS treadmill monthly maintenance.  Autonomous Systems and Operations (T2 Treadmill Augmented Reality Procedures or simply T2AR) conducts tests using augmented reality to help crew members perform inspection and maintenance on the Combined Operational Load Bearing External Resistance Treadmill (COLBERT). The ability to perform such tasks without assistance from Mission Control is vital for future space exploration such as a mission to Mars, where significant time delays occur in communications between space and ground. Using augmented reality to guide astronauts through complex spacecraft maintenance and repair activities also reduces the time needed for training and task performance.
Systems
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Gas Trap Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, Crew removed and replaced the EMU Gas Trap on EMU 3004. The EMU Gas Trap removes particulate contamination from the water flow to the EMU Water Pump and concentrates and directs free gas in the coolant loop to the EMU Water Separator. The EMU Gas Trap is considered an ORU and can be changed out on-orbit. The EMU Gas Trap lifetime is limited by the number of hours it has run with the fan.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Pump Inlet Filter Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, Crew removed and replaced the EMU Pump Inlet Filter on EMU 3004. The Pump Inlet Filter prevents contamination generated in the water separator and feedwater tanks from migrating to the EMU Pump. The water incoming to the Pump Inlet Filter comes from the Coolant Isolation Valve and Condensate Water Relief Valve and passes down to the EMU Pump.
Water Stowage System (WSS) Resupply Tank Changeout: Today, Crew changed out the full Water Resupply Tanks 1,2,3 in the US Lab WSS Rack with empty Water Resupply Tanks. The WSS resupply tanks are COTS tanks. The outer shell of the tank is a fiberglass composite that is sealed with an epoxy resin (not wetted). The interior of the shell is lined with polyethylene and the internal bladder is the polyether urethane material. Unlike most of the bladder tanks commonly used in the NASA world, the water is stored between the bladder and the shell (as opposed to inside the bladder). During transfer ops, the bladder is filled with compressed air which forces the water out of the tank.
JLP1A2 ZSR Audit: Today, Crew performed audits of the JEM Experiment Logistics Module – Pressurized (JLP) 1A2 Zero-G Soft Rack (ZSR) to verify its stowage configuration for future clean up. The ZSR was designed to be used aboard the orbiting ISS to accommodate a wide range of crew, experiment, and logistic support items. Its lightweight composite construction of aluminum and fabric elements can be flown in any ISS location that accommodates an International Standard Payload Rack (ISPR).

