
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew performed day one of the multi-day effort to replace the Cold Atom Lab science module. Today’s activities were primarily to inspect the fiber optic cables and ports. More information on the CAL facility can be found here.
Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): The crew replaced a suspect ADLink Mini PC supporting the xPWD. More information on this investigation can be found here.
Systems:
Water Recovery System (WRS) Catalytic (Cat) Reactor Remove & Replace (R&R): Today, the crew successfully removed the Legacy Cat Reactor and installed the Cat Reactor Development Test Objective (DTO) into the WRS-1 Rack. Following the R&R, the crew and ground teams performed several tasks to bring the new Cat Reactor and the WRS online. These tasks included preparation of the Legacy Cat Reactor for stowage as a spare, O2 hose connection to the WRS, installation of a temporary filter in support of Cat Reactor DTO checkout, WRS-1 Rack rotation into its nominal configuration, and the reinstallation of the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to the WRS-1 Rack.
Crew-8 Crew Dragon External High Definition Camera (EHDC) Survey: Yesterday, using the EHDCs, the ground team performed a video survey of the Crew-8 Crew Dragon docked at the Node 2 Zenith port. Images were taken of the Dragon vehicle under various lighting conditions over the course of two day passes. These surveys allow the ground team to monitor the health of the crew vehicle to ensure the safety of the crew.
Hydrogen Sensor Tech Demo (H2ST) Drift Check: The crew performed a drift check on the H2ST in the Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA). This was completed using tanks of O2 that contain a known quantity of H2. The H2ST allows for the monitoring of the H2 content of the O2 that the OGA creates.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Common Gas Support Equipment (CGSE) Argon (Ar) Gas Bottle Unit (GBU) R&R: The crew installed a new Ar Gas Bottle into the CGSE that is located in the JEM. The CGSE provides Ar, Helium (He), and Carbon Dioxide (CO2) to Material and Life Sciences Experiments.
