
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew performed day three of the multi-day effort to install the new Cold Atom Lab science module. Today’s activities involve installation of Module 4 into the science chamber. More information on the CAL facility can be found here.
Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction – Material Ignition and Suppression Test (SoFIE-MIST): The Heat Radiometer was adjusted to position B. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Universal Waste Management System (UWMS) Toilet Setup Operations: Following the activities performed yesterday, the crew continued Toilet setup in preparation for upcoming testing operations. Today’s tasks included Toilet AdLink MiniPC startup, Toilet PreTreat Tank installation, Toilet Air Filter installation, Toilet Urine Filter Remove and Replace (R&R), Toilet EDV installation, and finally Toilet Activation. The upcoming testing will provide the Artemis program with valuable data of Toilet performance with four crew use in preparation for the upcoming crewed Artemis missions.
Crew Quarters (CQ) VelociCalc Airflow Measurements: The crew performed airflow measurements in the Overhead and Starboard CQs. These measurements will allow the ground team to understand if the crew quarters are getting sufficient airflow to prevent CO2 buildup in the CQ.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
EDV Lock Wire Inspections: After two EDVs were found to be missing lock wires, the crew inspected them to ensure that the nuts were not backing out. The USOS utilizes EDVs for collecting urine and brine for processing back into water in the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) and Brine Processing Assembly (BPA) respectively.
Medical Contingency On Board Training (OBT): The 71 Soyuz crew performed medical contingency training with support of the ground team. Emergency medical equipment was deployed and crew practiced CPR positioning to ensure familiarity with procedure execution should a medical emergency occur. These trainings allow the crew to practice medical procedures in the microgravity environment of ISS.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Battery Operations: The crew installed a new EVA battery into the Battery Stowage Compartment and initiated battery charging. This activity is preparing for the upcoming EVAs scheduled in June.
