
New Status: 
Channel 2B to Channel 2A Power Transfer: Due to the loss of cooling on the 2B channel, ground controllers successfully performed a seamless power channel handover.  Channel 2A is now supplying power to the 2B loads with no impact to powered equipment.  Channel 2B is isolated and dormant.
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Tomorrow Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy and FE-6 Marshburn will conduct US EVA #21 to assess the location of leaking ammonia from the 2B Photovoltaic Thermal Control System (PVTCS). In advance of tomorrow’s EVA for Cassidy and Marshburn, the USOS crew performed preparatory steps today to include filling Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garments (LCVGs), battery charging, moving stowage out of the airlock, and configuring their tools and suits.  The crew conducted briefings with ground specialists on decontamination steps for ammonia, and a procedure review for the EVA.
33 Soyuz (33S) Return Packing: FE-4 Romanenko packed cargo on 33S for return with both USOS and RS returning cargo.  Earlier this week, the majority of the USOS cargo was handed over to Romanenko, with the remaining cargo of crew preference items, laptop hard drives, and the ESA experiment TRITEL being handed over today for packing.  Items used by the US EVA crew will be handed over for packing upon completion of the EVA.

Robotic Refueling Mission Operations: Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) video system to begin Day 5 of the Robotic Refueling Mission (RRM) Tertiary Task Ops. They maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) into position to stow the Wire Cutting Tool (WCT) on SPDM Arm 2 in the RRM Tool Bay. They then maneuvered the SSRMS and SPDM into position to stow the Safety Cap Tool (SCT) on SPDM Arm 1 in the RRM Tool Bay. Finally the Robotics Ground Controllers configured the SPDM for overnight park. Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers will stow the SPDM on Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 2, configure the SSRMS for translation and translate the Mobile Transporter from Worksite (WS) 2 to WS6. MSS System performance today was nominal.
Today, ground controllers commanded the SSRMS to stow the SPDM on Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF 2. After the SSRMS released the SPDM, it was reconfigured for translation, and the Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite (WS) 2 to WS6. Mobile Servicing System (MSS) performance today was nominal.
Previous Status (05/09/10):
2B Photovoltaic Thermal Control System (PVTCS)  Status:  This afternoon the crew noticed white flakes floating outside on the port side of the vehicle.   At the same time ground teams noticed a drop in the 2B Photovoltaic Thermal Control System (PVTCS) ammonia pressure, indicating an external ammonia leak.  The 2B PVTCS has had a known slow leak for several months, but today the leak rate increased.  Without the PVTCS providing cooling to the Electrical Power System, channel 2B will be powered down.   Prior to the channel shutdown, the 2B loads will be transferred to channel 2A, and no impact to powered equipment is expected.  Ground teams are assessing the forward plan to locate the leak.  The crew and the ISS vehicle are in a safe configuration.

