
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: Actiwatch devices were attached to the HRF-1 rack for data downlink and charging. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM): The APM was removed from the LAB1D1 location and installed in Node 3 at the NOD3A3 location. Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. The APM demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
AstroPi: AstroPi hardware was deinstalled from the Windows Observational Research Facility (WORF), transferred back to the Columbus module and was setup for operations to continue the next phase of the European AstroPi Challenge. Two augmented Raspberry Pi computers (called AstroPis) were flown to the ISS and are both equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detects how the station moves through space, and picks up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different types of cameras: one has an infrared camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera. 
BioNutrients-2: A crewmember completed the BioNutrients-2 Survey. BioNutrients demonstrates a technology that enables on-demand production of human nutrients during long-duration space missions. The process uses engineered microbes, like yeast, to generate carotenoids from an edible media to supplement potential vitamin losses from food that is stored for very long periods. Specially designed storage/growth packets are intermittently activated by astronauts over a five-year period, then frozen and returned to Earth for examination.
Human Research Facility-2 (HRF-2): The J2 Drawer handles were replaced with new handles. HRF-2 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables human life science researchers to study and evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by spaceflight. Research performed using HRF-2 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Immunity Assay: Samples were collected and processed in support of the Immunity Assay experiment. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In VitroDelayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions, with the help of a functional immune test.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): Water samples were taken from the JWRS processed water bag and stowed in the Water Return kit. The demonstration of JWRS generates potable water from urine. In the past, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard. However, for long-term space missions, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Space Health: The Bio-Monitor wearable hardware was donned and calibrated initiating a 48-hr data recording session. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after a mission to the ISS to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. The Artemis analytical platform is used to provide automated analysis of the cardiovascular system in order to develop a near real-time assessment tool. The potential use of the Bio-Monitor system and the Artemis platform for future space missions is being evaluated.
Systems:
Exercise Instrumentation Box (EIB) Install: Today, the crew replaced the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Instrumentation Box with the EIB and set up the ARED Surface Pro. After installation, the crew performed a hardware and software checkout of the newly installed EIB and ARED Surface Pro. ARED uses adjustable resistance piston-driven vacuum cylinders along with a flywheel system to simulate free-weight exercises in normal gravity.
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Portable Pulmonary Function System (PFS): Today, the crew performed operational phases of Max CEVIS, including video setup, exercise preparation and instrument calibrations, exercise protocol, data downlink, and initial clean-up. CEVIS provides the ability for cycling activities via leg or arm ergometry in order to provide aerobic exercise as a countermeasure to cardiovascular deconditioning on-orbit.
Hatch Seal Inspection: Today, the crew cleaned and inspected the hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surface, crank handle mechanism, hatch seal interlocking joints, and Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) hatch kicker pins for damage or foreign object debris (FOD). This was performed on the Node 1 Forward, Aft, Starboard, and Port hatches. Any areas of interest were photographed for analysis on the ground.
