
Payloads:
Genes in Space Molecular Operations and Sequencing (GiSMOS): A sample filter was retrieved from cold stowage, a sample was retrieved from the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Waste Water Tank, and DNA was extracted from the water sample and processed using the MiniPCR Sequencer to identify bacteria and fungi properties. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Hicari-II:  The Gradient Heating Furnace (GHF) HICARI2 Cartridge Sample (S/N 010) was assembled and installed into the Sample Cartridge Automatic Exchange Mechanism (SCAM) holder #4. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Immunity Assay: Heparin samples were collected and processed into reaction tubes and placed into the KUBIK incubation facility. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Cupola Window Cleaning: The crew completed cleaning of Cupola Windows 1, 2, 4, and 5 with the goal of removing foreign object debris (FOD) that had built up on the surface of the windows. This process involved the removal of the Scratch Pane Assembly (SPA) that protects the window, cleaning of Primary Pressure Pane, and then reinstallation of the SPA. The Cupola provides the crew a vantage point for photography, whether for science or personal, requiring the windows to be as optically pure as possible.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations: Today, the crew completed several EVA tasks. These tasks included EVA Battery Charging Termination, EVA Battery removal from the Battery Stowage Compartment, EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) 3009 EMU Data Recorder (EDAR) Power Cable Troubleshooting, and swapping EMU 3009 and EMU 3004 on the Aft EMU Don Doff Assembly (EDDA). These tasks ensure that EVA hardware is prepared for the upcoming series of USOS EVAs.
Commercial off the Shelf (COTS) Oxygen (O2) Sensor Troubleshooting: The crew performed troubleshooting of the Node 3 COTS O2 Sensor that had stopped sending data and installed a COTS O2 Sensor into Node 2. The Node 3 COTS O2 Sensor was found to be free floating without a bracket attached. The crew reseated the cable and took pictures for the ground team to review. A remove and replace (R&R) activity will be scheduled at a later date if needed.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
UTS Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
