
Payloads:
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): Electroretinography (ERG) and Pneumatonometer (PTM) blood pressure measurements were completed. More information on the current experiment (CIPHER) can be found here. 
Genes in Space Molecular Operations and Sequencing (GiSMOS): The MiniPCR Sequence was terminated and stowed, and samples were placed intoMinus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). More information on this experiment can be found here. 
Immunity Assay: Samples in reaction tubes were removed from the Kubik incubator and were clipped and framed. The reaction tubes were spun by the centrifuge and then placed into cold stowage. More information on this experiment can be found here. 
KIBO Robot Programming Challenge 5: Preparation and Technical Rehearsal #1 was performed using Astrobees. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Zero Treadmill-2: Isometric Mid-Thigh (IMTP) operations were performed on the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED). More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Universal Waste Management System (UWMS) Toilet Troubleshooting (T/S): Following the Failure Investigation Team (FIT) meeting on Wednesday, May 15th, the crew performed the FITs recommended T/S steps. The crew first performed an additional 10 pretreat doses, for a total of 80, but the commercial of the shelf (COTS) Conductivity Sensor (CCM) still did not provide a reading that indicated the presence of pretreat. The crew then disconnected the Toilet Pretreat hose to check the quick disconnect (QD) for the presence of pretreat, but were not able to find any. A second FIT is being held today to discuss further T/S options and next steps.
Cupola Window Cleaning and Scratch Pane Assembly (SPA) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew completed cleaning of Cupola Windows 3, 6, and 7, as well has performed R&Rs of the SPAs on Windows 3 and 6. These activities were completed with the goal of removing foreign object debris (FOD) that had built up on the surface of the windows. This process involved the removal of the SPA that protects the window, cleaning of the Primary Pressure Pane, and then reinstallation of the SPA. The Cupola provides the crew a vantage point for photography, whether for science or personal, requiring the windows to be as optically pure as possible.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations: Today, the crew completed two EVA tasks. The first task was the degassing of EVA Contingency Water Containers Iodinated (CWC-I). The second was the EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Tank Dump and Fill on EMUs 3004 and 3013. These tasks ensure that EVA hardware is prepared for the upcoming series of USOS EVAs currently scheduled for June.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Station Support Computer (SSC) 9 and 12 Swap: Today, the crew swapped out the SSC that is located in the SpaceX Crew Dragon Endurance, SSC 9, with SSC 12. SSC 12 was updated with the latest set of procedures this week. This update and swap is completed on a regular basis to ensure that the crew has offline access to all of the most up-to-date procedures in the event of an emergency situation that requires them to shelter in their crew vehicle.
