
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew performed day two of the multi-day effort to replace the Cold Atom Lab science module. Today’s activities were primarily to inspect and clean the fiber tips on the 767 nm and 785 nm lasers. More information on the CAL facility can be found here. 
Sleep in Orbit: The crew reviewed the procedure, set up the hardware, and initiated an overnight science session. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Universal Waste Management System (UWMS) Toilet Setup Operations: Today, the crew began Toilet setup in preparation for upcoming testing operations. Setup included Toilet stall removal, removal of the failed Commercial off the Shelf (COTS) Conductivity Monitor (CCM), installation of the new Dose Pump (DP), and installation of the new CCM. The upcoming testing will provide the Artemis program with valuable data of Toilet performance with four crew use in preparation for the upcoming crewed Artemis missions.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Arm Rope (CAR) Remove and Replace (R&R): Last week, the crew reported that there was damage to one of the cables on ARED causing excess slack on one side during exercises. Today the crew performed a Detent Adjust activity and an ARED CAR R&R. While the new cables stretch out from use, ARED can only be used for certain exercises.
Treadmill 2 (T2) Activation and Checkout (ACO): Following the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Catalytic (Cat) Reactor Development Test Objective (DTO) installation last week, the crew completed the T2 ACO. This activity included the crew placing T2 back into its nominal configuration and then performing a test exercise session with video downlink. The video downlink allows the ground team to ensure that T2 is operating correctly. T2 allows the crew to run with simulated gravity while minimizing the forces applied to the ISS.
Cupola Window Imagery: The crew took still images of the Cupola scratch panes to document debris build up. This was completed in preparation of upcoming window cleaning activities, allowing the ground team to analyze the buildup and plan the cleaning accordingly.
SpaceX Crew Dragon Contingency Suit Fit Check: The USOS crewmember that flew up on 71 Soyuz performed a SpaceX Crew Dragon Contingency Suit fit check. This fit check was performed to determine if the contingency suit will fit properly with the crew wearing the Soyuz comfort garment. This contingency suit would be used in the event that the Soyuz US crewmember would return on the Crew Dragon.
