
Fluid Shifts Before, During and After Prolonged Space Flight and Their Association with Intracranial Pressure and Visual Impairment (Fluid Shifts): Kelly begun his Flight Day (FD) 45 Fluid Shifts Dilution Measurements today.  Upon wakeup he collected baseline saliva, blood and urine and inserted them into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) prior to ingesting a Sodium Bromide (NaBr) tracer.  Throughout the day, he performed more urine, blood, and saliva collections, inserting those samples into MELFI as well.  The Dilution Measurements are the first part in the series of FD45 Fluid Shifts measurements. Next week, Kelly and Kornienko will be performing their Baseline Imaging using the ultrasound.  The third portion of the Fluid Shifts experiment involves utilization of the Russian Chibis (Lower Body Negative Pressure – LBNP) during ultrasound measurements.  Fluid Shifts investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Ocular Health: Virts and Cristoforetti performed their Return-30 (R-30) Ocular Health sessions.  Each crew acted as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO) for each other’s tonometry session, and Cristoforetti assisted Virts in collecting his blood pressure.  The crew also performed vision tests and questionnaires.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Dragon Release On-Board Training (OBT): In preparation for SpX-6 unberth scheduled this Thursday, today Virts and Kelly performed proficiency training on the Dragon departure profile, departure crew procedures, and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding Dragon.  The lesson walks through the steps in the departure procedures and provides representative Remote Work Station (RWS) and Portable Computer System (PCS) screenshots for each step. The lesson also provides an overview of the Dragon commands available to the crew via the Crew Command Panel (CCP). The crew will also perform Dragon Robotics On-Board Trainer (RoBOT) OBT. 
ISS Reboost: The ISS reboost attempt Friday night using 58 Progress (58P) thrusters was aborted within the first second of the burn. MCC-M confirmed the abort was due to Rendezvous and Docking (R&D) Thrusters #1 on Manifold #1 unable to pass an automatic readiness check at the time of ignition.  A second attempt to reboost ISS was successfully performed overnight on Sunday utilizing Manifold #2. The burn duration was 32 min and 3 sec. The planned delta velocity (dV) was 1.75 m/s, but the actual dV was 1.89 m/s. This difference was within family to previous reboosts in this configuration and is not expected to cause any long-term trajectory impacts. MCC-M will be investigating the issue with Thruster #1 on Manifold #1.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Power Strip (PS)-120 Junction Box: Today, Virts installed the JEM PS-120 Junction Box at the JPM1F7 location. The newly installed junction box will provide crews the ability to have a total of eight simultaneous 120V loads plugged in.
JEM Network Storage (NeST):  Virts installed the NeST, which will provide more network storage capability on JEM LAN during Ku LOS period.  This hardware was required to be installed to accommodate the PS-TEPC, scheduled to arrive onboard later this year. 

