ISS On-Orbit Status 05/10/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Sunday – off-duty day for CDR Padalka, FE-1 Barratt &amp; FE-2 Wakata.   Ahead: Week 6 of Increment 19.
 
  Michael Barratt &amp; Koichi Wakata began the last day of their third session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository.  For both, 24-hr. urine collections ended this morning, and Mike finished his session with his blood draw from an arm vein, assisted in the phlebotomy by the FE-2.  For Wakata, this NUTRITION/Repository activity was his FD60 session.     [The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]
 
  Padalka performed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP (Harmful Impurities Removal System) by starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #1 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated tonight at ~5:15pm EDT before crew sleep, followed tomorrow by Bed #2 regeneration.  (Last time done: 4/21-4/22).     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods.  The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days.]
 
  Afterwards, the CDR completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module) and FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.  Additionally, the CDR checked up on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP-Moscow.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  Gennady also conducted the periodic checkup behind panel 139 in the SM on a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
  Mike performed the daily procedure of flushing the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) ambient line with ~50mL of water (into a towel/Ziploc bag).  PWD water is currently cleared only for hygienic use, pending Russian approval.  
 
  The FE-1 also conducted the daily status check on the BCAT (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test) science payload, running by itself since 5/2.    [The status check, conducted on the last image taken by the DCS 760 digital still camera which is controlled by EarthKAM software on an A31p laptop, is to verify proper image focus and camera alignment.  The SSC (Station Support Computer) is taking photography of the phase separation occurring in the BCAT Sample 3, with the photo flash going off every half hour.]
 
  In the US Lab, the FE-2 worked on the ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System), mating two MTL (Moderate Temperature Loop) umbilicals (for Supply &amp; Return) to the CHeCS (Crew Health Care System) rack at its UIP (Utility Interface Panel, loc. LAB1S4) to provide cooling to the rack.
 
  Today’s PFCs (Private Family Conferences) for the crew, via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), were scheduled for Koichi at ~2:40am &amp; ~11:25am, and Mike at ~4:15pm.
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-2) and VELO bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).
 
  At ~4:50am, Mike Barratt powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at ~4:55am conducted a ham radio session with students at the Flemish Space Days, Leuven, Belgium.   [For the 5<sup>th</sup> time, VRI – Flemish Space Industries – has organized the Flemish Space Days, with the support of the Federal and Flemish government. This year the event focuses especially on the new mission of the Belgian ESA astronaut Frank De Winne and on the International Year of Astronomy.  In the Brabanthal in Leuven the Flemish space and aviation industry, research centers and educational institutes will show their latest technological and scientific developments to students and the large public. On Friday, 5/8, the Flemish schools were invited in order to try to stimulate young people to choose for a technical or scientific career.  Different booths occupied by space and aviation industry, research centers and other actors in the field of aeronautics and astronomy will lead the visitor into the fascinating world of space. Workshops and lectures will highlight the applications of space technology in daily life.]
 
 
