
Payloads
AstroPi: The crew recorded a congratulation message for AstroPi Challenge 2020/21. Two augmented Raspberry Pi computers (called AstroPis) flown to the International Space Station as part of British ESA Astronaut Tim Peake’s mission are available for use during French ESA Astronaut Thomas Pesquet’s Proxima mission. The computers are both equipped with the mighty Sense HAT (Hardware Attached on Top) that measures the environment inside the space station, detect how the station moves through space, and pick up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different kinds of cameras: one has an infrared camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera.
Celestial Immunity: The crew retrieved samples from cold stowage in preparation for thaw and treatment injections. Dissecting the Influence of Gravity on Human Immune Function in Adults and the Elderly (Celestial Immunity) builds on earlier studies to evaluate how gravity affects functional immune response, from innate mechanisms of defense to adaptive responses. It uses peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from both elderly and younger adult donors to facilitate the study of possible age-associated effects. The investigation could uncover novel immune pathways useful for the development of new vaccines and drugs to prevent and treat existing and emerging human diseases.
Dreams: A crewmember concluded Dreams operations by doffing the headband, connecting the hardware to an iPad for data download, and completing the questionnaire. Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance. The Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (Dreams) is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the International Space Station (ISS).
Vascular Aging: A crewmember performed the Glucometer and the blood tubes setup in preparation for the Vascular Aging glucose test protocol. The crewmember also performed the setup and donning of the Bio-Monitor Garment and Headband and connected the Data Unit to the Garment and to the Bio-Monitor Application in preparation for a 48-hr data gathering session. Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crew members are analyzed.
Manufacturing Device (MAND): Crew remove and stowed completed printed object. The Manufacturing Device enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the MAND printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. MAND can produce parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymer including engineered plastics.
Systems
In Flight Maintenance Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Recovery from Suspected Gas Separator Leakage: In order to recover from the WRS-1 Rack failure caused by a suspected leak in the Gas Separator ORU that caused the Air Avionics Assembly (AAA) to fail, Crew will be performing a week-long series of R&Rs. An R&R will be performed on the Gas Separator, Ion Exchange, and AAA, while the Water Delivery ORU will be removed for AAA accessing. This will require multiple partial rotations of the NOD3D5 Rack to access connections at the front and rear of the rack.
CIR IPSU Replacement: Today, a crewmember replaced the failed FCF IPSU in the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), which included moving the FCF IPSU at position UML2 to replace the FCF IPSU at position UML5. The Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Port Crew Quarters Exhaust Airflow Sensor Swap: Today, Crew removed the Port Crew Quarters (CQ) Exhaust Airflow Sensor and installed the scavenged Deck CQ Exhaust Airflow Sensor for troubleshooting purposes. Upon activation of the removed Port Sensor it was discovered that it was still producing a fault and therefore was confirmed to be the culprit. The faulty Port Sensor was left installed in the Deck CQ, and teams are investigating forward steps.
High Definition EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) Hardware Checkout and Prep for Troubleshooting: Today, Crew performed troubleshooting steps on the HECA to try and determine why it is having recording issues. The HECA is an ancillary EMU hardware developed by EV (Avionics Systems Division) which replaces the right camera of the ERCA. This High Definition camera streams via ISS EWC and utilizes the Arcturus software to send to MCC.
Urine Transfer System Backup EDV Swap: Crew swapped out the offload EDV and the mainline EDV, so that the Urine Transfer System (UTS) offloading can take place.

