
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer #7 (NRCSD 7) Deployment Operations: Today a total of 6 Dove satellites will be deployed via ground commanding. This morning the NRCSD 7 Silos 1 and 2 were deployed and Silo 3 is planned to be deployed this evening during crew sleep. This will complete the second of three consecutive days of deployment operations this week. NRCSD 7 contains 17 satellites comprised of MinXSS, CADRE, STMSat-1, 2 NODeS, 8 Doves, and 4 LEMUR satellites. The NRCSD is a commercially operated small satellite deployer from the ISS, maximizing full capabilities of each airlock cycle of deployments. The Dove satellites are a fleet of nanosatellites that enables imagery of the entire changing planet to be taken on a frequent basis, with humanitarian and environmental applications ranging from monitoring deforestation and the ice caps to disaster relief and improving agriculture yields in developing nations.
 
 
Rodent Research-3 (RR-3) Operations: Following yesterday’s successful grip strength measurements, today the crew transferred rodents from their habitats to the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), and then performed Bone Densitometry measurements and sample processing. This investigation studies the molecular and physical changes to the musculoskeletal system that occur in space. Results will expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
 
Thermolab Instrumentation for Circadian Rhythms: The crew began the first of a three-day European Space Agency (ESA) Circadian Rhythms experiment by performing instrumentation with the Thermolab Double sensors, mounting the Thermolab Unit in the belt, and activating the Thermolab Unit before beginning a 36 hour continuous measurement. The objective of the experiment is to get a better understanding of alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights. Such knowledge will not only provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, but also has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions.
 
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Status: During a process cycle on Thursday night, the stationary bowl temperature in the Distillate Assembly (DA) dropped enough to activate thermostatically-controlled heaters which caused the condenser pressure to increase. The UPA was taken to standby. Due to continued concerns regarding elevated conductivity and precipitation events, a FIT was held and one of the recommendations was to R&R the brine filter which was completed yesterday. An Advanced Recycle Filter Tank Assembly (ARFTA) R&R as well as conversion of the WHC to alternate pretreat were completed today and the UPA is performing as expected.
 
ARED Right Upper Stop Cable R&R:  This morning, the crew reported that the ARED Right Upper Stop Cable had failed.  They replaced it with a spare which was launched during Increment 42, and ARED is now fully operational.
 

