
Lab Mass Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Loss of Comm: The Lab MCA experienced a loss of communication overnight. A power cycle was performed to bring it back online; before that could happen, however, the Pump Vacuum Pressure rose above the limit allowed for activation. A manual pump-out is required before reactivation can be completed. Specialists are working to schedule this task and restore MCA.
AstroPi: Today the crew transferred the AstroPi with the infrared camera from Node 1 to the Columbus module. This follows completion of the 2017-2018 European AstroPi Challenge during which student-developed software was executed on the AstroPi computers onboard the ISS.  AstroPis are augmented Raspberry Pi computers equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measure the environment inside the ISS, detect how the station moves through space, and pick up the Earth’s magnetic field. One of the AstroPis has an infrared camera and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera. 
At Home in Space:  The crew completed a questionnaire for the At Home in Space investigation. This Canadian Space Agency investigation assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the spacecraft by creating a home in space. At Home in Space also uses questionnaires to investigate individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth. 
Recorded Public Affairs (PAO) Events: Today the crew recorded two deferred release downlink messages.  One message is for the Memorial tree planting ceremony at Johnson Space Center (JSC) in celebration of John Young scheduled on May 14.  The second message is for the retirement celebration of JSC Center Director Ellen Ochoa on May 17.
Educational Recording:  Drew filmed several demonstration of the Water Recovery System onboard the ISS.  STEMonstrations are education videos conducted by crewmembers aboard the space station. Crewmember use the camera to capture onboard demonstrations and talking points. The material is deferred release and will not be seen on live NASA TV. Once edited, the material will be used for educational products, NASA TV, and social media applications. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for next week’s US EVA 50 Pump and Flow Control Subassembly (PFCS) Relocate, the crew used computer-aided simulations to review EVA procedures via Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) and the Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT).  They also used Virtual Reality to review procedures associated with the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER).  In addition to this training, the crew completed a checkout of the SAFER units, continued with Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB) charging operations, and configured various cameras used during EVA. 
Eye Exams: Today the entire US crew performed routine eye exams using a Fundoscope. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Robotic Operations:  Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) in position to extract the failed Pump Flow Control Assembly (PFCS) also known as ‘Leaky’.  They extracted the PFCS and stowed it on the Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP) side 3.  After initial release, the SSRMS rebounded in the X and Y directions and contacted structure; survey of the P6 interface did not indicate any damage.  The Mobile Transporter (MT) was translated from Worksite 8 to Worksite 6 to complete last night’s operations. 
It is going to be a busy night tonight outside the ISS.  Ground controllers in Houston will continue to configure the MSS for the PFCS EVA. The SPDM, will install PFCS ‘Leaky’ on the EOTP, after which the SSRMS will be moved to the EVA starting position. Later in the evening Ground controllers in Tsukuba, Japan will maneuver Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) from the Stowed Position to the Small Satellite Deploy Position in preparation for Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Demonstration (JSSOD)-8 satellite deploys tomorrow morning. 

