
Bone Densitometer relocate: The Bone Densitometer unit was relocated from EXPRESS rack 4 to EXPRESS rack 5.  This was performed to resolve an interference from the Life Science Glovebox foot restraints preventing the Bone Densitometer door from being able to fully open.  Approximately the size of a consumer microwave oven, the Bone Densitometer (BD) uses X-rays to measure the bone mineral density (and the lean and fat tissue) of mice living aboard the ISS. As a result, researchers hope to develop medical technology that will combat bone density loss in space and on Earth, helping millions of senior citizens who suffer from osteoporosis.
Cryo Chiller: The current Cryo Chiller unit was removed and stowed and a new Cryo Chiller unit was installed.  There was no issue with the older unit – this gives the team a chance to check out the new unit.  Following the resolution of some minor health/status issues, the new Cryo Chiller began its 48 hour cool down to the -185 °C set point.  Cryo Chiller is a single Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) locker replacement unit which provides rapid freezing capability in support of biological sciences, as well as temperature-controlled transfer to/from the International Space Station (ISS) on visiting vehicles.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL) SCA exchange: The crew performed the activities needed to exchange the processed GEDS (Gravitational Effects on Distortion in Sintering) science sample cartridge assembly (SCA) with a new SCA.  The science of liquid phase sintering is about 50 years old, but the practice dates from the 1400s when gold was used to bond platinum in Columbia and Ecuador. Future applications include use of liquid phase sintering as a means to perform in-space fabrication and repair, and for example using lunar regolith to fabricate structures on the moon or using metal powder to fabricate replacement components during extraterrestrial exploration. The MSL GEDS-German experiment focuses on determining the underlying scientific principles to forecast density, size, shape, and properties for liquid phase sintered bodies over a broad range of compositions in Earth-gravity (1g) and microgravity (μg) conditions.
Systems
Northrop Grumman (NG-13) Cygnus Release: Today, ground teams utilized the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to unberth the S.S. Robert H. Lawrence from Node 1 Nadir then released the vehicle at 11:08 am CT. This completed 83 days of joint ISS/Cygnus operations. Following departure from the ISS, Cygnus will begin its secondary mission, hosting the Spacecraft Fire Safety Experiment – IV (Saffire-IV), which provides an environment to safely study fire in microgravity. It will also deploy a series of payloads before a destructive re-entry on May 29th or 30th.

