
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #58: Today, ISS CDR Sergey Prokopyev (EV1) and FE-2 Dmitry Petelin (EV2) performed RS EVA #58 with Andrey Fedyaev supporting as the Intravehicular (IV) operator. The trio performed a multitude of tasks in order to deploy and integrate the MLM [РТОд] radiator. The MRM2 hatch opened at 10:46 AM CDT and the following tasks were completed:

Remove the two (2) remaining restraints from the MLM [РТОд] radiator
Deploy the MLM [РТОд] radiator
Open the Coolant Fluid Servicer manual valves on the [УСА] active attachment interface
Install two gap spanners on the ERA arm
Install short-cut MLM-NM Handrails
Close the Coolant Fluid Servicer manual valves on the [УСА] active attachment interface
Integrate the coolant-filled [РТОд] radiator hydraulic loops into the MLM [СОТР] thermal control system

The Total Phased Elapsed Time (PET) of this EVA was 5 hours and 14 minutes.
Payloads:
BioNutrients-2: The crew completed a BioNutrients-2 Survey. BioNutrients demonstrates a technology that enables on-demand production of human nutrients during long-duration space missions. The process uses engineered microbes, like yeast, to generate carotenoids from an edible media to supplement potential vitamin losses from food that is stored for very long periods. Specially designed storage/growth packets are intermittently activated by astronauts over a five-year period, then frozen and returned to Earth for examination.
Ring Sheared Drop: Ring Sheared Drop hardware and Test Cell were setup in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Work Volume in preparation for upcoming test operations. The Ring Sheared Drop investigation examines the formation and flow of amyloids without the complications associated with the solid walls of a container, because in microgravity, surface tension provides containment of the liquid.  Amyloids – fibrous, extracellular protein deposits found in organs and tissues – are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s. Results could contribute to better understanding of these diseases, as well as to development of advanced materials.
Space Health: The Bio-Monitor wearable garment was swapped out for a fresh garment. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after a mission to the ISS to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. The Artemis analytical platform is used to provide automated analysis of the cardiovascular system in order to develop a near real-time assessment tool. The potential use of the Bio-Monitor system and the Artemis platform for future space missions is being evaluated.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activities (EVA) Preparation Activities: Today, the crew inspected the mounted and unmounted Retractable Equipment Tethers (RETs) for damaged cords. Each RET cord must be inspected prior to EVA use. Next, the crew unstowed hardware from the Airlock not needed for the upcoming ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) Installation EVAs and prepared the Airlock to support EVA operations. Finally, the crew inspected the Load Alleviating Strap (LAS) on safety tethers, waist tethers, and soft strap on D-Ring Extenders.
On Board Training (OBT) Dragon Rendezvous Review Axiom Mission 2 (Ax-2): The crew performed a Dragon Rendezvous review of actions required prior to the arrival of Ax-2. The crew also reviewed approach and monitoring tools, as well as Dragon contingency monitoring. The Ax-2 mission is currently scheduled to launch on May 21st with the objective of transporting four Private Astronauts on a SpaceX Crew Dragon to stay aboard the ISS for approximately eight days.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Blower Cable Demate/Remate: Today, the crew demated the J1 connector on the Lab CDRA blower in order to troubleshoot off-nominal signatures that occurred duringCDRA activation earlier this week. Once ground actions were completed, the J1 connection was remated. The CDRA maintains cabin carbon dioxide partial pressure levels within specified limits, while minimizing air and water losses to space.
