
Payloads:
Dose Distribution Inside the International Space Station – 3D (DOSIS-3D): The DOSIS-3D main box was moved to its original location at the European Physiology Module (EPM) rack in the Columbus module.  ISS crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation, which can be harmful to their health. DOSIS-3D uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS.
Dreams: In conclusion of the science session, the Dreams dry-electroencephalogram (EEG) headband was doffed, the science data was transferred, and the hardware was stowed. Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep, or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance. The Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-EEG Headband (Dreams) is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the ISS.
Life Support Rack (LSR): An Adlink Mini PC was deployed at the LSR location to assist with LSR troubleshooting activities. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. LSR captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR operates for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Ring Sheared Drop-Interfacial Bioprocessing of Pharmaceuticals (RSD-IBP): The processed experiment syringe and its test cell were removed, and a loose set screw was tightened. The RSD module is a containerless liquid system that makes it possible to study protein solutions without the effects of interactions with solid walls. RSD-IBP studies the behavior of high-concentration protein fluids and tests computer models for predicting that behavior. More accurate models could enable production of next-generation medicines for treating cancers and other diseases.
Space Health: The crew doffed the Bio-Monitor sensor garment and connected the Data Unit to the Bio-Monitor Controller for data downlink. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after a mission to the ISS to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. The Artemis analytical platform is used to provide automated analysis of the cardiovascular system in order to develop a near real-time assessment tool. The potential use of the Bio-Monitor system and the Artemis platform for future space missions is evaluated.
Systems:
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Distillation Assembly (DA) Purge Hose Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew accessed the NOD3D4 Rack to remove and replace the DA Purge Hose. The DA is an Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) in the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) in the Water Recovery System 2 (WRS-2) Rack. The DA receives pretreated urine from the Fluid Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) and contains a centrifuge that separates the fluid into distillate, brine, and gas. The Purge Hose connects the DA in the UPA to the Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA).
Treadmill 2 (T2) Rack Rotate: As a part of the ongoing T2 maintenance this week, the crew reinstalled T2 Vibration Isolation System (VIS) hardware and cables to return T2 back to a nominal configuration following rack rotation. T2 is the second generation ISS treadmill intended for use by USOS crewmembers to maintain crew health during extended visits to the ISS.
Training for Emergency Response On-board ISS: Today, the crew practiced ISS Emergency Response along with ground activities based on information provided by simulator displays. The crew physically translated through ISS to the appropriate response locations, practiced procedure execution and associated decision-making, and practiced communication and coordination with MCC-H and MCC-M as required for a given emergency scenario.
