
Payloads:
ANITA-2: Air samples were manually taken from assigned ISS locations and entered into ANITA-2 for chemical analysis. The Analyzing Interferometer for Ambient Air-2 (ANITA-2) is a compact gas analyzer which can analyze and quantify 33 trace contaminants in the atmosphere aboard the ISS automatically. ANITA-2 can also detect the presence of unknown substances which can be evaluated later on the ground.
Lumina: The Lumina unit was powercycled in order to prepare the unit to handle large file transfers. Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina) is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL): CO2 Controller S/N-4 was installed into the SABL-2 unit to verify its functionality. The SABL unit supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical, and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28VDC and 5VDC power supplies for investigation use.
Vascular Aging: The Bio-Monitor hardware was stowed, and the Glucose Test hardware was prepared for upcoming test operations. Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
Wireless Compose-2:  A crewmember donned the SmartTex shirt and performed the Ballistocardiography experiment. The main scientific goal of the Wireless Communication Network (Wireless Compose-2) investigation is to provide a flexible and adaptable wireless network infrastructure to conduct and execute low-power, light-weight, and wireless experiments on the ISS. For this demonstration, Wireless Compose-2 operates several experiments, including an experiment to examine the impact of the space environment on the cardiovascular system. Additionally, Wireless Compose-2 demonstrates the ability of newly developed impulse radio ultra-wide band (IR-UWB) hardware to enable precise localization applications and to analyze the energy harvesting potential on the ISS.
Systems:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Arm Rope (CAR) Removal: As a result of observed rope fraying, both CARs from the ARED pulley system were removed to allow detents to engage so ARED Bar exercises can be performed. The ARED CARs are No-Go for use until mitigation procedures are performed to restore proper functionality; however, the ARED Bar is Go for exercise as long as detents remain engaged.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Coliform Water Sample Analysis: Today the crew completed post-processing analysis of the coliform detection bags. The water samples were acquired on May 17th and allowed to incubate to check for the presence of Coliform bacteria. Following the incubation period, the crew visually analyzed the coliform detection bags and recorded the results. Visual confirmation must be performed within 40-48 hours of the initial sample collection.

