
Payloads 
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): The crew replaced Nitrogen/Oxygen manifold bottles in support of the continuing s-Flames investigation. The ACME experiment series being performed in the CIR includes five independent studies of gaseous flames. The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth.  Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
Hourglass: The crew removed the Hourglass box from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility Incubator Unit (CBEF IU) 1G Centrifuge. The four experiment units were also removed from the Hourglass box and the SD data cards were inserted into the Payload Control box in order to download the data. Hourglass investigation examines the relationship between gravity and the behavior of granular materials such as regolith that covers the surface of planets and planetary-like bodies. Researchers observe various granular materials inside an hourglass and a measuring cylinder under different gravity conditions. Better understanding of the behavior of these materials supports the design of spacecraft for future missions landing on the surfaces of planets and other celestial bodies.
Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones): The crew reviewed procedures for the upcoming Myotones operations. Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation are expected to provide insight into principles of human resting muscle tone, which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions.
Systems
Emergency Simulation On Board Training (OBT): Today, the crew participated in a training exercise for ISS fire and rapid depressurization emergency scenarios. The emergency training consisted of:

Crew and ground controllers utilizing simulator data to identify each of the emergency scenarios and executing the appropriate response procedure(s).
The crew physically translating through ISS to the appropriate response locations to visualize the use of equipment and interfaces.
Practicing communication and coordination with the mission control centers in Houston and Moscow for the each of the scenarios.
A post-simulation crew conference to discuss/evaluate the crew/ground control responses during the training event.

SpaceX Demo-2 Rendezvous Training: In preparation for Crew Dragon arrival, the crew performed rendezvous training today utilizing a computer based trainer to review video and reference materials. SpaceX and NASA are targeting May 27th for the Falcon 9 launch of Crew Dragon’s second demonstration mission (Demo-2) from historic Launch Complex 39A at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida.

