ISS On-Orbit Status 05/12/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Saturday – Crew off duty.
 
Upon wakeup, FE-5 André Kuipers &amp; FE-6 Don Pettit each completed another post-sleep session of the Reaction Self-Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self-Test on the ISS) protocol, their 40<sup>th</sup>.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
Kuipers continued his current extended session of the ESA ENERGY experiment.  FE-6 Pettit also contributed a urine sample later in the day as Control Subject.        [Activities included concluding the PFS (Pulmonary Function System) part of the experiment with disassembly of the PFM/PAM (Pulmonary Function Module/Photoacoustic Analyzer Module), GDS (Gas Delivery System), and MBS (Mixing Bag System), and stowage of the majority of the PFS hardware.  Collection of a water sample from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) in the Lab and urine sampling (on 2<sup>nd</sup> void of the day) are continuing, as is adherence to the special ENERGY breakfast plus logging all ISS food &amp; drinks consumed during ENERGY experiment performance from lunch and dinner on Day 1 until breakfast on Day 10.  André wears an armband monitor, positioned on the right triceps where it started automatically on skin contact. The instrument must be worn for the entire 10-day ENERGY measurement period and removed only during showers or if needed during blood draws.  Activities without the armband monitor on the triceps must be carefully logged.   The monitor will be removed at the end of the 10-day period, then data will be downloaded from the device.   Background:  The observed loss of astronauts’ body mass during space flight is partly due to the systematic ongoing negative energy balance in micro-G, in addition to disuse. Unfortunately, the reason for such unbalanced match between intake and output is not clear, but appealing data suggest a relation between the degree of energy deficit and the exercise level prescribed as a countermeasure.  Purpose of the ENERGY experiment is (1) to measure changes in energy balance during long term space flight, (2) to measure adaptations in the components of the Total Energy Expenditure TEE (consumption), and (3) to derive an equation for the energy requirements of astronauts.  TEE is the sum of resting metabolic rate (RMR, measured), diet-induced thermogenesis (DIT, measured oxygen-uptake minus RMR) and activity-related energy expenditure (AEE, calculated).]
 
After breakfast, CDR Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
The three crewmembers joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Oleg completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) and the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System grille in the SM.
 
The CDR also handled the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
André completed his weekly task of filling out his SHD (Space Headache) questionnaire.     [He started this activity after his Soyuz launch and is continuing it on ISS (on an SSC/Station Support Computer) once every week (after daily logging in the first week).  Neurologists from Leiden University are studying the question whether astronauts in space suffer from headaches.  With the help of a simple questionnaire, André registers the headache episodes and the eventual accompanying symptoms.  The results may help to characterize the frequency and characteristics of space headache and to develop countermeasure to prevent/minimize headache occurrence during the space flight],
 
Don had another time slot reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on the personal SSC (Station Support Computer).     [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
At ~8:55am EDT, the crew held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
At ~10:30am, Kuipers &amp; Pettit conducted a “ crew handover” teleconference with the three Exp-31/Exp-32 crewmembers Padalka, Acaba &amp; Revin at Baikonur, scheduled to launch on Soyuz 30S on 5/14 (~11:02pm EDT).
 
At ~11:05am, Don Pettit activated the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) routing to downlink the recording of his CFE-2 VG-2 (Capillary Flow Experiments 2 / Vane Gap 2) science session of 5/10, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  Routing will be stopped by Don at ~3:25pm.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-5, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR).      [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.  Today’s exercise calls for CEVIS (aerobic), with ARED+T2 (resistive+aerobic), T2, ARED+T2, CEVIS &amp; ARED+T2 following in the next 5 days.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.] 
 
GPS Failure:     On 5/10, GPS-1 (Global Positioning System 1) of SIGI (Space Integrated GPS/Inertial Navigation System) locked up and stopped producing attitude information, potentially due to an internal hardware issue.  Controllers on the ground power-cycled it twice (turned it off/on), but it did not come back on.  GPS-1 is drawing power but is not communicating with the GNC MDM (Guidance, Navigation &amp; Control Multiplexer/Demultiplexer) computer.  There is another good spare onboard for an R&amp;R (removal &amp; replacement), as well as a degraded spare.  On 5/14 (Monday), the crew will access the SIGI GPS and perform the R&amp;R to increase redundancy in preparation for SpaceX launch and berthing if the decision to do it is made by tomorrow.  Last April, when Burbank &amp; Kuipers replaced the SIGI GPS in the Lab Aft Endcone, they ran into a couple of issues, and the R&amp;R took eight hours of crew time split over two days using two crewmembers.
 
Tasks listed for Kononenko on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 

