ISS On-Orbit Status 05/10/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
Upon wake-up, FE-1 Samokutyayev performed the regular daily check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> (oxygen) generator.      [Maxim Suraev installed these filters on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).  Aleksandr inspects the filters again before bedtime tonight, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
Samokutyayev also conducted the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the “bake-out” cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  Sasha will terminate the process at ~5:15pm EDT before sleep time.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday.      [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 4/18-4/19).]
 
CDR Kondratyev terminated his 13<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-3 Garan reconfigured cables on the MMA (Microgravity Measurement Apparatus) for micro-G measurements, changing a long (7.20m) jumper to a shorter one (5.50m) between bays O3 &amp; O4.
 
FE-6 Coleman worked on the MLT2 (MMA Laptop Terminal 2), correcting its communications network settings for a checkout of the LEHX (Layer 2 Ethernet Hub &amp; Multiplexer) device.     [MLT2 had been temporarily configured for communicating with PEHG-J (Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway-Japan) and was restored on 4/26 to its original setting for the checkout, but apparently with an erroneous setting.  Today’s task was to either correct the setting or see whether there is a problem noted in the MLT2 log file.] 
 
Coleman also conducted the periodic (approx. weekly) WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling in Node-3 using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.     [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]
 
Afterwards, Cady joined up with FE-5 Nespoli for several hours to relocate stowage from the JAXA JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment) to the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module), specifically CWCs-I (Contingency Water Containers-Iodine) packed in CTBs (Cargo Transfer Bags) which were put behind standoffs (structural elements away from walls).
 
FE-2 Borisenko had ~5 hrs set aside for the periodic Russian SPOPT (Fire Detection &amp; Suppression System) IDZ-2 smoke detectors maintenance in the FGB, where Andrey dismantled each of ten IDZ-2 units, cleaned their ionizing needles and then reinstalled the sensors.    [Part of the job is to inspect surrounding areas behind panels and to clean those surfaces and the inlet grille with microbial growth wipes.]
 
Borisenko also downloaded the structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer of the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.     [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104].
 
Also in the MRM1 module, Andrey conducted the periodic temperature check of the TBU-V (Universal Bioengineering Thermostat V) thermostatic container (+29degC) which currently contains the biotech BTKh-26 KASKAD (Cascade) payload at +4 degC temperature.
 
Dmitri Kondratyev completed his 2<sup>nd</sup> preliminary orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test run with the Russian Chibis suit in preparation for his return to gravity on 5/23 with Soyuz 25S (along with Coleman &amp; Nespoli), conducting the ODNT exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the T2 treadmill.  Samokutyayev assisted as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).   Dima was supported in his one-hour session by ground specialist tagup via VHF at 10:45am EDT.        [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of the crewmember’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  The preparatory training consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -20, -25, -30, and -35 mmHg for five minutes each while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure and the REG SHKO Rheoencephalogram Biomed Cap, supported by the Gamma-1M biomed data control system.   The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]
 
Kondratyev prepared for tomorrow’s BRP-M (Modified Water Distribution &amp; Heating Unit)  and SRV-K2M Condensate Water Processor water sampling by unstowing and readying a KAV condensate sampling container with adapter &amp; cap removed, and a separator, then setting both of them up for the sampling.
 
Later, Dmitri continued the cargo prepacking for loading on Soyuz TMA-20/25S started yesterday, guided by an uplinked list of ~60 items.  
 
FE-3 Garan performed the weekly health check of the O<sub>2</sub> sensor in CSA-O<sub>2</sub> (Compound Specific Analyzer-Oxygen) #1045, which has exceeded its shelf life.
 
The CDR completed a data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was the 13<sup>th</sup> for Dima.       [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
Alex Samokutyayev conducted his 2<sup>nd</sup> session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop for the 2h 20m activity.      [Andrey assisted Sasha in donning the electrode cap, preparing his head for the electrodes, and applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]
 
Sasha also set up and ran another session with the Russian BTKh-43 KONSTANTA (#2) biotech payload with Cassettes 1-5, supported by ground specialist tagup.      [BTKh-43, comprising the Recomb-K hybridizer bioreactor plus photo &amp; video equipment with two SPR-1 portable lights, studies potential effects of spaceflight factors and their nature on the activity of a model enzyme relative to a specific substrate (bioreactors are specialized hardware for growing, cells, tissues, and microorganisms).]
 
Ron, Cady &amp; Paolo again spent a large portion of their workday on ATV (Automated Transfer Vehicle) cargo operations which included some “cleanup” work in the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) Leonardo.     [Today’s activities mainly consisted of stowing two trashed RFTAs (Recycle Filter Tank Assemblies) on the ATV and unpacking previously constrained items with corresponding trashing of packing material.]  
 
FE-1 conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Samokutyayev also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Paolo  broke out and configured the equipment for Ron Garan’s first 24-hr urine collections under the NUTRITION/Repository protocol, starting tomorrow morning.
 
Dmitri &amp; Cady again had time set aside for personal crew departure preparations; these are standard pre-return procedures for crewmembers.
 
Before sleep time, Andrey Borisenko will prepare the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and start his 2<sup>nd</sup> experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
Later tonight before “Presleep” period, Cady will power on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
At ~4:25am, Dmitri &amp; Andrey discussed the current status of tools availability and configuration in the RS (Russian Segment) via S-band with ground specialists.
 
At ~11:15am, Ron Garan turned on the new amateur radio station in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and at ~11:25am conducted a ham radio session with students at Mount Carmel Academy, Houston, TX.
 
At ~2:20pm, Ron conducted a tagup with MCC-Houston to debrief on today’s ATV cargo transfers.
 
CDR, FE-1, FE-2 &amp; FE-5 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) scheduled, via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Paolo at ~8:45am, Sasha at ~10:20am, Andrey at ~10:45am, Dmitri at ~12:45pm EDT.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR/2x, FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5) and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-2).
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Astana, Kazakhstan (the Kazakhstan capital city of nearly three-quarters of a million is located on the Ishim River in a very flat semi-desert steppe.  ISS approach was from the west in clear weather and the pass provided a near-nadir view in mid-afternoon light.  At this time, the crew was to try for a context view of the city and its surroundings), Copenhagen, Denmark (ISS had a mid-afternoon pass in fair weather over the western European Plain.  The Danish capital at about 55.7N was located well left of its eastward track at the time of nearest pass.  Copenhagen with a metropolitan population of nearly 2 million is located primarily on the eastern shore of the large island of Zealand.  It faces the Oresund to the east, the strait that separates Denmark and Sweden.  At this time the crew was to begin shooting obliquely left of track, trying for a context view of this famous European city), and Charlevoix Impact Crater, Quebec Canada (for this target ISS approach was from the west-southwest at midday with fair weather expected.  This ancient crater [345 million years old] has been heavily affected by the evolution of the St. Lawrence River Estuary, and then by repeated glaciations in the last 3 million years, so that only half the crater is visible.  With a diameter of 54 km, it is a comparatively large feature and easy to locate on the north shore of the estuary.  The crater is heavily built up and farmed so that the ring itself is less easy to detect although the topographic satellite imagery shows the morphology well.  At this time, as the crew approached the St Lawrence River Estuary, they were to aim the camera a touch left of nadir and try for a detailed mapping strip of this feature).
 

