
Payloads:
Genes in Space Molecular Operations and Sequencing (GiSMOS): The Biomolecule Sequencer was checked out in preparation for future operations.More information on this experiment can be found here.
Immunity Assay: Unused hardware was consolidated and trashed. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL SCA): Batch 3a #6 was exchanged into the MSL science chamber and the chamber lid bolts were inspected for worn threads and debris.  More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Universal Waste Management System (UWMS) Toilet Setup Operations: Following the activities performed yesterday, the crew continued Toilet setup in preparation for upcoming testing operations. Today’s tasks included Toilet Hose Inspection, Toilet Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) Conductivity Monitor (CCM) Power and Data Cable Inspection, Toilet EDV Installation, Toilet Stall Installation, Toilet Pre-Treat Priming, and Toilet Leak Checks. During the Toilet Pre-Treat Priming activity, after a total of 64 pre-treat doses, the conductivity sensor was not showing the presence of pre-treat in the system. The crew confirmed that there were no leaks in the system during on-orbit troubleshooting. A Failure Investigation Team (FIT) meeting is being convened to discuss potential options for getting the Toilet ready for testing. The upcoming testing will provide the Artemis program with valuable data of Toilet performance with four crew use in preparation for the upcoming crewed Artemis missions.
Atmosphere Revitalization System (ARS) Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Jumper Operations: The crew installed the MCA Vacuum Jumper connecting the MCA to the ISS vacuum lines. This activity was performed to help preserve MCA hardware by bringing the internal pressure down to near vacuum, causing excess water vapor that had built up in the system to be removed. The MCA is responsible for analyzing atmospheric samples and providing telemetry data to the ground team detailing the atmospheric percentage and partial pressures for oxygen, nitrogen, water, methane, and carbon dioxide.
Cupola Housekeeping: In preparation for Cupola Window cleaning activities starting tomorrow, the crew went into the Cupola to perform housekeeping tasks. This was completed to remove foreign object debris (FOD) from the Cupola prior to the window cleaning to reduce the chance of stray FOD attaching itself to the window during cleaning. The Cupola provides the crew a vantage point for photography, whether for science or personal, requiring the windows to be as optically pure as possible.
NG-20 Cygnus Cargo Transfer Operations: Today, the crew performed cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-20 cargo vehicle. The crew is loading the cargo vehicle with items slated for disposal in preparation for its departure from station in July.
