
Payloads:
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): The crew performed a BCM research session consisting of a set of 12 tests. The Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (BCM) experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight. The tests evaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the original activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crew members to complete either individual or crew telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember who has spent months in weightlessness can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
Cerebral Autoregulation: The item gather and initial setup were performed in preparation for the science session tomorrow. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigates whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight, and provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): The crew continued the water management system troubleshooting which included electrical resistance checks of various subsystems in the unit, and assembly of new water flow hardware. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. The results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Gravitational References for Sensimotor Performance: Reaching and Grasping (GRASP): Several sessions of the GRASP science protocols were performed using the virtual reality headset with the crew in the quasi-free-floating configuration. The purpose of the GRASP investigation is to better understand how the central nervous system (CNS) integrates information from different sensations (e.g., sight or hearing), encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate the hand with the visual environment. More specifically, the science team seeks to better understand if, and how, gravity acts as a reference frame for the control of reach-to-grasp.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The hard drive system was exchanged, and photos of the final configuration were taken. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and Non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Repository:  Blood and urine sample were collected in support of the Repository investigation. The NASA Biological Specimen Repository (Repository) is a storage bank that is used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment. The research provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. Samples from the ISS, including blood and urine, are collected, processed, and archived during the preflight, in-flight, and postflight phases of ISS missions. This investigation archives biosamples for use as a resource for future space flight related research.
SpaceBorne Computer-2 (SBC-2): In an attempt to recover functionality of one of the two SBC-2 server units, an inspection and replacement of the system’s ethernet cable was performed. Spaceborne Computer-2 High Performance Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Computer System on the ISS (SBC-2) builds upon the successes of the Spaceborne Computer. The Spaceborne Computer explored how COTS can advance exploration by processing data significantly faster in space with edge computing and artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities. Spaceborne Computer-2 further tests additional techniques for recovering or mitigating errors in the extreme environment of unprotected solar radiation, galactic cosmic radiation (GCR) and other events. Additionally, Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) works with the space community and the International Space Station-National Laboratory (ISS-NL) to test and demonstrate that current Earth-based data processing of ISS experimental data can be performed onboard during the anticipated 24-to-36-month mission of Spaceborne Computer-2.
Systems:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Arm Rope (CAR) Remove & Replace: Today, the crew removed and re-installed the Cable Arm Ropes on the ARED. To finish the ARED setup, the crew applied proper tension to the cables and inspected the cable-pulley system bearings. At the time of re-installation, the Cable Arms Ropes had not engaged in the detents due to the cable’s material properties. The ARED is currently not operational for bar exercises until the detents engage. Several exercise sessions using the exercise rope may be required for Cable Arm Ropes to allow the detents to engage. 
Oxygen Generation System (OGA) Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) Filter Block Removal and Replacement (R&R): Today as part of routine maintenance, the crew performed an OGA AAA R&R to remove a damaged filter block and replaced it with a Filter Block with an updated design. The new filter block includes fast clips which aid for a more user-friendly filter removal. The OGA produces oxygen via electrolysis using iodinated water from the Water Processor Assembly (WPA). 
Max Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS): The crew completed Max CEVIS today which is used by the medical community to evaluate astronauts’ aerobic fitness. The test is performed every 90 days and upon the crew’s arrival and departure from the ISS.
CST-100 Orbital Flight Test 2 (OFT-2) Conference: Today, the crew completed onboard training in preparation for the upcoming CST-100 OFT-2. The conference debriefed the crew on the training plan for Starliner systems, rendezvous approach monitoring and docking, changes to emergency response, and undock and departure. The OFT-2 mission is planned to span late-May and scheduled to launch on May 19th and dock May 20th.

