
Payloads
AC Touch: Per standard procedure, the crew touched both of the coated and uncoated coupons for this long-term investigation. Crew then took photos of the hardware.  Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests is an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples will remain in space for approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Celestial Immunity: The crew set up the appropriate hardware, performed sample 3 operations for cell culture set beta, and initiated the cell culture experiment gamma ops.  With the exception of last week’s alpha set of operations, Celestial Immunity operations have been going well.  This project seeks to gain a broad understanding of how gravity affects overall human immune function and potentially uncover novel pathways of immune function that can be exploited to develop better vaccines and immunobiologics for human use. The project will build on earlier studies that evaluated lymphocyte (a type of white blood cell) function in microgravity. The project will also evaluate whether gravity-regulated immune pathways are affected by age by examining cells from both young adult and elderly donors in parallel.
ISS HAM pass: The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with Collège Descartes, Antony, France.  The College Descartes is a public general school with 700 students aged from 10 to 15.  The ARISS (Amateur Radio on the International Space Station) project is supported by 30 students within the school, aged from 13 to 15.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Standard Measures:  The crew performed several sample collections and answered a questionnaire related to the Standard Measures experiment. The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc.  These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Systems:
EXPRESS Rack 1 AAA Fan Replacement and Repair: As a continuation of the AAA troubleshooting, the crew removed the back panel of the rack, and replaced the AAA (Avionics Air assembly) high-speed cooling fan with a spare unit. The AAA fan circulates cooled air in the internal rack volume which subrack payloads can use for cooling.  EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Racks are multipurpose payload rack systems that store and support research aboard the ISS. The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
Node 3 Endcone Stowage and NRAL Stowage Operations: Today crew returned hardware that was used in multiple systems and maintenance operations last week to the Node 3 Endcone. Crew also gathered hardware from the Nanorack Airlock in order to back fill long term spares of multiple pieces of hardware.
Node 3 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Gas Trap Plug Replacement: Today, Crew performed a replacement of the Gas Trap Plug on the Node 3 Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA). The EMU Gas Trap removes particulate contamination from the water flow to the EMU Water Pump and concentrates and directs free gas in the coolant loop to the EMU Water Separator. The EMU Gas Trap is considered an ORU and can be changed out on-orbit. The EMU Gas Trap lifetime is limited by the number of hours it has run with the fan.
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Retractable Equipment Tether (RET) Inspection: Crew inspected for damaged cords on mounted and unmounted RETs. Each RET cord must be inspected prior to EVA use. Instructions are included to tape unmounted RETs if required. After inspection/taping of unmounted RETs, Crew places the RETs in protective Bag per Stowage Note to isolate RETs from potential damage until ready for EVA use.

