
New Status: 
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-4: Cassidy configured and deployed the BCAT-4 sample module.  The BCAT-4 module is being revisited after being undisturbed for several years to see the condition of the sample and their mixing status.  BCAT-4 is an experiment of two samples containing microscopic spheres suspended in a liquid which are designed to determine how crystals can form from the samples after they have been well mixed. The two samples have the same average sphere size but one of them has a wider range (more polydisperse) of sizes in order to demonstrate the dependence of crystallization on particle size range. Results from these experiments help scientists develop fundamental physics concepts which will enable the development of a wide range of next generation technologies (such as in high speed computers and advanced optical devices).
Station Support Computer (SSC) Ultra Bay Hard Drive Installation: Cassidy installed additional hard drives on the crew assigned SSCs.  These additional hard drives will be used to backup crew personal data in advance of a software patch and ensure that there is enough data storage space for the upcoming 35 Soyuz crew.
Seedling Growth On-Board Training (OBT): In advance of the upcoming Seedling Growth activities, Cassidy reviewed OBT materials and the procedures that will execute during the remainder of the increment.  Seedling Growth studies the effects of microgravity on the growth of plants and is being performed on board the International Space Station (ISS) in collaboration with the European Space Agency. Images of the plants will be captured and down-linked to Earth. Samples of the plants will be harvested and returned to Earth for scientific analysis. The results of this experiment can lead to information that will aid researchers in food production studies concerning future long-duration space missions, as well as data that will enhance crop production on Earth.
Previous Status (05/13/10):
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS): Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy set up and completed the ninth of thirteen sessions planned for this experiment. BASS examines the burning and extinguishing characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity and will guide strategies for extinguishing fires in microgravity. BASS results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.

Ultrasound Background Noise Test (UBNT): Cassidy downlinked data from the Remote Sensor Units (RSUs) for ground specialists to review.  The Ultrasonic Background Noise Test (UBNT) detects high-frequency sounds generated by hardware on the U.S.-built portions of the International Space Station. Identifying sources of noise will aid in development of a leak locating system, which would detect the high-pitched sound of air leaking through a pressurized wall. To detect leaks, the system would have to tell the difference between harmless background sounds and potentially dangerous air leakage.

Russian Crew Off-Duty Day: Today is an off duty day for Commander (CDR) Vinogradov and FE-2 Misurkin, as compensation for the support they provided for the 33S undocking on Monday.
Ammonia Response Procedure Deploy and On-Board Training (OBT): Cassidy deployed the updated ammonia procedures flown on 51P. Following the deployment, all three crewmembers (Vinogradov, Misurkin, and Cassidy) reviewed the procedures and deployment locations to be prepared in the event of an ammonia leak inside the station.

