
ISS Reboost: On Saturday, May 12th, at 05:07:00 pm CDT the ISS performed a nominal 2 minute and 52 second reboost using the 69P thrusters.  The purpose of the reboost was to set up proper phasing for the 53S landing in June and the 70P 2-orbit rendezvous in July.
Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) #2:  The crew brought the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table into the JEM this morning and replaced the J-SSOD deployers with the Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP) Adapter on the Multipurpose Experiment Platform (MPEP).  They then returned the slide table to the Airlock and depressed and vented the Airlock.  Later today the crew will extend the slide table to the exterior of the ISS.  Tonight ground robotics controllers will use the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Small Fine Arm (SFA) to transfer the HXP from the JEM External Facility to the Slide Table. On Wednesday the Slide Table will be brought back into the JEM and ExHAM samples will be exchanged before the HXP is returned to the JEM External Facility.
Veggie Passive Orbital Nutrient Delivery System (PONDS):  On May 9th the crew reported what appeared to be mold growing on some of the plants. Today the crew aborted the Veggie PONDS run, photographed the plants and harvested some of them for return to the ground for evaluation.  After removing the plants, the crew cleaned the Veggie PONDS hardware and set it up for drying.  Organisms grow differently in space, from single-celled bacteria to plants and humans. Future long-duration space missions will require crew members to grow their own food. Understanding how plants respond to microgravity and demonstrating reliable vegetable production on orbit are important steps toward that goal. Veggie PONDS uses a newly developed passive nutrient delivery system and the Veggie plant growth facility aboard the ISS to cultivate lettuce and mizuna greens which are to be harvested on-orbit, and consumed, with samples returned to Earth for analysis. 
Vascular Echo:  Earlier today a 53S subject collected blood samples for the Vascular Echo investigation. Using the CardioLab Portable Doppler (PDOP), the crewmember donned the femoral probe and performed a 1-minute exercise followed by a resting period during which data was collected. Vascular Echo examines changes in blood vessels and the heart while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health, and quality of life for everyone. 
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The crew replaced CIR manifold bottles today to support the ongoing microgravity combustion research operations in the CIR. They also replaced a seal as part of routine CIR maintenance. The Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) experiments being performed in the CIR include five independent studies of gaseous flames.  The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth.  Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability. 
Cygnus OA-9 Capture On-board Training (OBT):  Today the crew reviewed the OA-9 mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures, and interfaces necessary for monitoring and commanding to the Cygnus vehicle.  Once completed, they participated in a conference with ground specialists to discuss the overall capture training plan and reviewed the Backaway and Capture Cue Cards.  OA-9 is scheduled to arrive at the ISS on 24-May. 
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew Removed and Replaced (R&R) the WHC Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter. After the R&R, the crew performed a functionality test with nominal results. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for Wednesday’s US EVA 50 Pump and Flow Control Subassembly (PFCS) Relocate, the crew completed additional EVA tool configuration and performed an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003 and 3006 water recharge and ullage dump.
Public Affairs (PAO) Event: Today the crew participated in an educational event with the Tulsa Air and Space Museum in Tulsa, Oklahoma.  Participants in the Live Downlink were Oklahoma students in 5-12th grades that competed in an essay contest. Student essays described what they would ask an astronaut and how that question relates to their own life on earth. 

