
Fluid Shifts: A 50S crewmember performed their Flight Day (FD) 180 Fluid Shifts Chibis operations in the Russian Segment. They donned the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP/Chibis) device while the operator, with ground support in Moscow, assisted in the medical monitoring.  While the subject was in the LBNP and experiencing the negative pressure (pulling the fluid feetward), the USOS crewmember took measurements for Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), a Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) test, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), and a Tonometry examination.  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
NeuroMapping: The crew set up the Neuromapping hardware and executed testing in both a “strapped in” and “free floating” body configuration. During the test, the crew completed three Behavioral Assessments: mental rotation, sensorimotor adaptation, and motor-cognitive dual tasking. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to the brain, including brain structure and function, motor control, and multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess changes that occur after spending months on the ISS. 
Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA) 3 Operations: Following this week’s operations, the crew restowed hardware and installed the PMA retention net to keep the Androgynous Peripheral Assembly System (APAS) hatch operational envelope clear of stowage. The crew then closed the PMA 3 hatch.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Operations: Following last week’s EVA #42, the crew performed suit maintenance including scrubbing and iodination of EMU and Airlock cooling water loops. A water sample was taken for subsequent conductivity testing which was also completed today.
Control Moment Gyroscope (CMG) – Ground controllers successfully completed the five year CMG gimbal maintenance on CMG3 and CMG4.   The gimbal maintenance is a 360-degree rotation of the inner gimbals to redistribute the lubricant amongst the gear teeth and to change the wear pattern of the CMG torquer gear train. 

