
Payloads 
Materials Science Laboratory- Sample Cartridge Assembly-Gravitational Effects on Distortion in Sintering (MSL SCA-GEDS-German): The crew performed the activities needed to exchange the processed GEDS science sample cartridge assembly (SCA) with a new SCA. Liquid phase sintering is an important means to fabricate net-shape composite materials for applications over a range of industries. The science of liquid phase sintering is about 50 years old, but practice dates from the 1400s when gold was used to bond platinum in Columbia and Ecuador. Today, it is a mainstay in a diversity of fields, such as metal cutting tools, armor piercing projectiles, automotive engine connecting rods, and self-lubricating bearings. Future applications include use of liquid phase sintering as a means to perform in-space fabrication and repair, and for example using lunar regolith to fabricate structures on the moon or using metal powder to fabricate replacement components during extraterrestrial exploration. The MSL SCA-GEDS-German (NASA Sample Cartridge Assembly-Gravitational Effects on Distortion in Sintering) experiment focuses on determining the underlying scientific principles to forecast density, size, shape, and properties for liquid phase sintered bodies over a broad range of compositions in Earth-gravity (1g) and microgravity (μg) conditions.
Ultrasound 2: The crew replaced the new Ultrasound 2 unit for the HRF2 Rack. The Ultrasound 2 on the International Space Station (ISS) is a modified commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) Ultrasound system that provides high-resolution ultrasound images of target areas in the human body. The Ultrasound unit works in conjunction with the Human Research Facility (HRF) Video Power Converter which provides the capability of real-time ultrasound video downlink. The real-time video allows ground personnel to remotely guide crew members in order to obtain the best possible images for use by investigators or medical personnel.
Hourglass: The crew installed the Hourglass box into the CBEF 1g Centrifuge and the ground initiated experiment Run #2. Hourglass investigation examines the relationship between gravity and the behavior of granular materials such as regolith that covers the surface of planets and planetary-like bodies. Researchers observe various granular materials inside an hourglass and a measuring cylinder under different gravity conditions. Better understanding of the behavior of these materials supports the design of spacecraft for future missions landing on the surfaces of planets and other celestial bodies.
Systems
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Robotics Operations: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS in support of H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Offset Grapple practice. During this On-Board-Training (OBT) session, the crew maneuvered the Canadarm2 for training/familiarization in preparation for HTV9 capture. Prior to the OBT, flight controllers performed MSS diagnostics and checkouts on the arm’s “redundant” string. Following the OBT, the robotic arm was positioned to support the Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) inspection. The ACBM inspection is a prerequisite for HTV arrival.

