
Half Duty Day: Today was a shortened work day for Commander (CDR) Swanson. This is in compensation for his working last weekend in preparation for SpX-3 departure.
Skin-B: Swanson conducted his third Skin-B data collection using the Tewameter probe to measure the skin barrier function, the Visioscan Camera to measure skin surface topography, and the Corneometer probe to measure skin hydration. The results of the Skin-B experiment will improve understanding of skin aging, which is slow on Earth but very much accelerated in space. This will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general. The data could help in determining impact on astronauts on future missions to the Moon and Mars for example where environmental conditions are more challenging.
Sprint Operations: Swanson completed his Flight Day 45 Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) protocol using the Blood Pressure (BP)/Electrocardiogram (ECG) hardware. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Resist Tubule: Swanson retrieved the Resist Tubule Measurement Experiment Unit B from inside the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) 1-gravity Incubator Unit (IU), and inserted the samples into the Clean Bench microscope for observation. Resist Tubule clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance. Gravity resistance is a principal gravity response in plants, and plays an important role in the transition of plant ancestors from an aquatic environment to a terrestrial environment, and in the consequent establishment of land plants. This present study clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance, in particular the processes from signal transformation and transduction, to response.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations for Camera/Light/PTU Assembly (CLPA) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today ground controllers used the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to remove the SSRMS Boom B CLPA. The CLPA will be installed on the Mobile Berthing System (MBS) Mast location later this evening.  Next week, a new CLPA will be installed on the SSRMS Boom location. 

