
Payloads:
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF-L): The CBEF-L Motor Power Cable connections were swapped with the CBEF-L Motor Signal Cable connections in order to narrow down the turn table issue in the CBEF-L Incubator Unit. CBEF-L is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) new subrack facility, which is an upgraded facility of the original CBEF currently aboard the ISS.  CBEF-L provides new capabilities with additional new resources such as Full High Definition video interface, Ethernet, 24 VDC power supply, and a larger diameter centrifugal test environment. By using the original CBEF and CBEF-L as one facility for the same experiment, the payload user is provided with an upgraded experimental environment that can handle the processing of more experimental samples for a wider array of experiments.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The connection of the CIR I/O Processor Cable #1 was inspected to ensure a proper seating as part of communication troubleshooting efforts. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel, and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
DEvice for the study of Critical LIquids and Crystallization – Directional Solidification Insert-Reflight (DECLIC DSI-R):The DSI-R insert was installed. DECLIC is used to study crystal growth in transparent liquids. The DSI portion of DECLIC observes clear alloys that freeze like metals in microgravity. By providing real-time views of the crystal structures that form in the liquid, DECLIC-DSI sheds light on the physics that control the formation of solid materials. 
Iceberg: The NanoRacks Module 102 was inserted into the Iceberg cold stowage facility. Iceberg is a Double Locker equivalent designed for EXPRESS Rack operation and provides additional cold stowage resources aboard the ISS. The units provide an operating range of -95°C to +4°C.
Metabolic Space: The AA batteries used for Metabolic Space sessions were removed, trashed and the Thermolab Kit was stowed in its final location. The aim of the Metabolic Space experiment is to perform a technology demonstration of cardio-pulmonary diagnosis in space during physical activities of astronauts living aboard the International Space Station, while maintaining unrestricted mobility. This is achieved with a wearable measurement system that is directly worn by an astronaut.
Surface Avatar: The Basic Input/Output System (BIOS) setting was configured on the laptop and a software load was installed. The Surface Avatar hardware was setup. Several properties of the orbit-to-ground scenario are also applicable to terrestrial operation. For example, a high-latency data connection, the mix of structured and unstructured environments, and the types of tasks (e.g., traversing, manipulation of mechanical parts) are characteristic to scenarios such as arctic exploration, search and rescue in disaster zones and under-sea maintenance. Insights from these studies will be also applicable here. For example, gravity and wind act on objects on a planet’s surface which are not felt on orbit. In a similar way, when operating an object underwater, buoyancy, lift and drag forces act on the object which are not found in the operator’s environment.
Systems:
Orbital Flight Test 2 (OFT-2) Crew Space Transportation (CST-100) Hatch Closure Activities: The crew configure CST-100 for hatch closure by performing an egress and leak check. The crew closed the CST-100 intravehicular activity (IVA), Androgynous Peripheral Assembly System (APAS), and Node 2 hatches. The crew then performed a vestibule depressurization and a leak check of the IDA vestibule between the PMA and CST-100. The OFT-2 undocking is scheduled for tomorrow at 01:36 p.m. CT and landing at 5:49 p.m. CT.
OFT-2 Undock & Departure Monitoring Setup: Today, the crew setup to monitor the CST-100 undock operations in the Cupola and Node 3. The crew configured and checked out the CST-100 docking monitor application and Rendezvous and Proximity Operations Program (RPOP). The monitoring laptops were configured in the Cupola, Node 3, and the Lab for undocking tomorrow.
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Maintenance Activities: Today, the crew prepared the EVA Helmet Interchangeable Portable Light (EHIP) for return on SpX-25 by removing the HD EMU camera assembly and other hardware and replaced it. The crew also degassed four Iodinated Contingency Water Container (CWC-I) in the EVA suits. The CWC-I degas will prepare the containers for consolidation in a later activity.
Boeing OFT-2 Cargo Transfer Activities: Today, the crew completed cargo operations in preparation for OFT-2 return tomorrow. The crew moved cargo out of CST-100, loaded cargo for return, and took photos of the cargo configuration as well as other areas of interest.

