
OsteoOmics:  The crew fixated BioCells in Biocell Habitat 1 inserted the sample into the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  Crewmembers experience bone loss in orbit stemming from the lack of gravity acting on their bones. OsteoOmics investigates the molecular mechanisms that dictate this bone loss by examining osteoblasts, which form bone, and osteoclasts, which dissolve bone.  Improved understanding of these mechanisms could lead to more effective countermeasures to prevent bone loss during space missions and in a wide range of disorders on Earth. This may lead to better preventative care or therapeutic treatments for people suffering bone loss as a result of bone diseases like osteopenia and osteoporosis, or for patients on prolonged bed rest.
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) #12: The crew brought the JEM (Japanese Experiment Module) Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table (ST) into the ISS and replaced the NRCSD #11 Quad deployers with the NRCSD #12 deployers.  The ST was then retracted into the JEMAL which was depressurized and vented.  These activities are in preparation for the planned deployment of CubeSats from the NRCSD #12 over the next two days.
Grip Commissioning:  As part of the ongoing commissioning for the Grip investigation hardware, a crewmember performed tasks in a supine position.  Grip tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects.  Results from this investigation may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments, support design and control of haptic interfaces to be used in challenging environments such as space, and provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.  
Fine Motor Skills: The crew completed a series of interactive tasks during a session of FMS which studies how fine motor skills are effected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of the investigation is to determine how fine motor performance in microgravity trends/varies over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trends/varies before and after gravitational transitions, including periods of early flight adaptation and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
On-Board Training (OBT) Dragon Rendezvous Review: The crew performed proficiency training on the Dragon mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures, and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding the vehicle. This training is in preparation for planned SpaceX-11 launch on June 1 and berthing to ISS on June 4. 

