
Payloads:
Astrobee: The crew positioned the Astrobee Free Flyer (Bumble) in the JEM, and assisted the ground team in conducting multiple test runs of autonomous robotic maneuvering in support of a future student robotics competition. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
AstroPi: The Wireless Compose-2 was deactivated and the AstroPi Vis unit was transferred from Node 2 to Columbus module. The AstroPi Vis camera was pointed and focused at the AstroPi IR mini LCD display. The AstroPi European Challenge “Mission Zero” will run on the AstroPi IR for approximately 5 days. The student code output on the LED Matrix will be recorded with the AstroPi Vis.  Two augmented Raspberry Pi computers (called AstroPis) were flown to the ISS and are both equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detects how the station moves through space, and picks up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different types of cameras: one has an infrared camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera.
Cerebral Autoregulation: Cerebral Autoregulation Data Measurements were performed using the Cardiolab Portable Doppler hardware. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight, and provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
Moon Imagery (Optical Navigation): Optical Navigation (OpNAV) assembly was setup and operated to acquire photographic data. If a spacecraft loses communication with the ground or with NASA’s Deep Space Network, its crew must navigate, just as ancient mariners did, using the moon and stars. The Moon Imagery investigation collects pictures of the moon from the ISS, which are then used to calibrate navigation software to guide the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle in case its transponder-based navigation capability is lost. Crew members photograph the moon’s phases during a 29-day cycle, providing images of varying brightness to calibrate Orion’s camera software. 
Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL): The CO2 Incubator Controller S/N 5 was removed from SABL-1 and controller S/N 1 was installed. The SABL unit supports a wide variety of investigations in the life, physical, and material sciences with a focus on supporting research of biological systems and processes. It has over 23 liters of temperature-controlled volume with LED lighting for scientific hardware and investigations. It can be fitted to provide 5% CO2 (or any required concentration of CO2) for cell cultures or other types of investigations and has two USB 2.0 ports and two Ethernet LAN connections. It also has switchable 28VDC and 5VDC power supplies for investigation use.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): Module 3 and 4 cartridges were removed and trashed due to microbial contamination. The facility was cleaned to remove suspected microbial growth. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Arm Rope (CAR) Install: Today, the crew installed the new Cable Arm Ropes in a proper configuration following the ARED Belt Pulley slip. These CARs were installed after the previous CARs had frayed. The crew will perform periodic checks of the cable pulley system to ensure the detents stay engaged.
Columbus Active Cooling System Water Pump Assembly (WPA) 2 Trouble Shooting: The crew installed and removed the WPA Fault Detection, Identification and Recovery (FDIR) tool to/from the Columbus WPA 2. The FDIR tool is a connector cap that is installed on the WPA data interface and simulates the reading of all the sensors hardwired to it. This troubleshooting will help the ground teams determine if there is an issue with the Delta Pressure Sensor Block (DPSB).
Water Recovery System (WRS) Contingency Water Container-Iodine Fill and Potable Bus Sample: The crew transferred water from the Potable Bus into a CWC-Iodine using the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD). The crew monitored the offload time as a secondary control to protect the CWC-Iodine from over pressurization. After filling two CWC-Is, the crew took samples of the Potable Water Bus.

