
Human Research Program (Biochemical Profile, Marrow, Vascular Echo, and Repository):  53S crewmembers collected blood and urine samples for their Return minus 14-day session of the Biochem Profile, Marrow and Repository investigations.  One of the 53S crewmembers also started a 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring session.  Blood samples are being processed in the alternate non-refrigerated centrifuge due to the issues experienced yesterday with the refrigerated centrifuge.   A 54S crewmember also collected urine samples for his Flight Day 60 session of the Biochem Profile and Repository investigations.

The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
Vascular Echo examines changes in blood vessels and the heart while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health, and quality of life for everyone.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. The repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Food Acceptability:  A crewmember completed a Food Acceptability questionnaire today. The Food Acceptability investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
OA-9 Robotics Onboard Training:  This afternoon, the crew scheduled to capture OA-9 performed an additional Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session and continued their review of Cygnus Attached Phase procedures prior to tomorrow’s OA-9 capture and berthing. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. 
Orbital-ATK 9 (OA-9): This evening ground teams will prepare and inspect the Node 1 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) in preparation for OA-9 capture and berthing planned for tomorrow, May 24th, 4:20 am CT.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Today the crew continued configuring EVA tools and equipment needed during the upcoming US EVA #51 Node 2 EWC planned for June 14th.  Additionally, the crew swapped Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs) on the EMU Don/Doff Assembly (EDDAs) for upcoming EVA prep activities.

