
Fluid Shifts Before, During and After Prolonged Space Flight and Their Association with Intracranial Pressure and Visual Impairment (Fluid Shifts):  Kelly and Padalka performed a system test of the Ultrasound in the Service Module.  The crew configured the ultrasound, laptop, and video, and with assistance from the ground remote guider, then performed an ultrasound scan.  This test of capability is to verify capability in advance of the Fluid Shift ultrasound operations when the crew uses the Lower Body Negative Pressure (Chibis) suit next week.  This week, the crew will be performing their baseline data collections in the United States On-orbit Segment (USOS).  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Marangoni Deformation 30 (Dynamic Surf-3):  Cristoforetti set up the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) Dynamic Surf-3 core and body.  She then configured the Dynamic Surf-3 cassette, installed it into the core and body.  The assembly was then installed into the FPEF.  Cristoforetti completed the Dynamic Surf-3 setup activities on Wednesday, with the ground checkout activities later that night. The Dynamic Surf investigation is part of a series of JAXA experiments that Marangoni convection driven by the presence of surface tension gradient as produced by a temperature difference at a liquid/gas interface. Fluid convection observations of a silicone oil liquid bridge that is generated by heating the one disc higher than the other within the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF). By observing and understanding how such fluids move researchers can learn about how heat is transferred in microgravity, and ultimately drive the design and development of more efficient fluid flow based systems and devices.  The objective of scientific research on Marangoni convection utilizing microgravity is to make clear the flow transition phenomena from steady to oscillatory, chaotic, and finally turbulent flows. Therefore, it is important to understand an underlying principal of Marangoni convection. The findings and knowledge obtained through the space experiment is applied to industrial processes, as well as fluid physics.
Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP) Installation: This week the crew and ground controllers will be installing the HXP on the JEM Exposed Facility (JEF).  Today, ground controllers used the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) to retrieve the Small Fine Arm (SFA).  On Tuesday, the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) outer hatch will be opened and slide table extended for the SFA to grapple the HXP and install on one of the handrails of the JEF.  The HXP is composed of several exposure experiments which will remain attached to the JEF for approximately one year, collecting data on material interactions to long duration space exposure.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub:  Virts configured EMU suits 3003 and 3010 for today’s activities.  He then successfully initiated ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) on both suits.  Later during biocidal maintenance (iodination), EMU 3010 was unable to establish sufficient cooling water flow to complete the process.  Iodination maintenance was successfully performed on EMU 3003.  A water sample was obtained to determine the effectiveness of the filtering. A portion of this water sample will used for a conductivity test and the remaining water will be sent to the ground for chemical analysis. Ground Teams are currently planning to perform a Fan Pump Separator change out on EMU 3010 during the first week of June.
Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Preparation:  In preparation for the upcoming PMM relocation, Kelly has secured PMM Rack hardware and stowage.  In addition, he gathered vestibule outfitting hardware for Node 1 Nadir and Node 3 Forward ports later in the day.  PMM relocation from Node 1 Nadir to Node 3 Forward is planned for Wednesday, May 27th starting at 4:30am CDT.  

