
Cardio Ox Ultrasound:  A 50S crewmember completed their Flight Day (FD) 180 ultrasound, blood pressure and Electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements for the Cardio Ox investigation.  With scanning assistance from a Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and ground remote guidance specialists, the crew donned ECG electrodes and marked the Carotid and Brachial arteries for scanning.  By collecting ultrasound and ECG data along with blood and urine samples scientists will attempt to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts.
Vascular Echo: A crewmember performed Vascular Echo resting ultrasound and blood pressure measurements. With assistance from a ground remote guidance team, he scanned his neck, thigh and heart. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation examines changes in blood vessels and the heart while crew members are in space, then follow their recovery on return to Earth. Results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health and quality of life for everyone. 
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N) Retrieval: The crew retrieved all 8 of the Space Bubble Detectors that were deployed last week in the Node 3 module for the RaDI-N experiment and handed them to the Russian crew to be processed in the Bubble Reader. This CSA investigation measures neutron radiation levels while onboard the ISS.  Bubble detectors are used as neutron monitors designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
Manufacturing Device (MD): The Manufacturing Device failed to complete the 12 hour print of a Radiation Environment Monitoring shield on Friday and during a second attempt yesterday. The REM shield was to be installed in the BEAM during ingress later this week. The Made-In-Space team is assessing the anomaly.  The MD – Additive Manufacturing Facility (AMF) enables the production of components on the ISS to meet both NASA and commercial objectives.  Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the AMF.  The AMF is capable of producing parts using a wide variety of thermopolymers, including engineered plastics.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Suit Maintenance: Following last week’s removal of EMUs 3006 and 3008 and installation of EMUs 3003 and 3010 on the Equipment Lock EMU Don/Doff Assembly the crew performed routine maintenance on EMU 3003 and 3010 including a loop scrub, iodination and conductivity tests. 
Soyuz 49 (49S) Nominal Descent Drill: The 49S Crew performed a nominal Soyuz Descent Drill in preparation for their return to earth.  Soyuz undock is scheduled for June 2, 2017 at 5:48 AM CDT with landing occurring at 9:10 AM CDT.
Commercial Orbital Transport Services (COTS) UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Checkout:  In preparation for the upcoming SpaceX-11 capture and berthing planned for June 4th, the crew coordinated with ground teams to activate the CUCU System and perform a Crew Command Panel (CCP) checkout. CUCU provides a command and telemetry communications link between ISS and Dragon during free flight operations in the vicinity of ISS.  

