
Cygnus NG-20 ISS Reboost: Today, the Cygnus NG-20 vehicle performed two reboosts of the ISS, increasing the velocity by a total of 2.26 m/s. Due to the altitude of the ISS there are still small traces of atmosphere that slow down the ISS. These reboosts allow the ISS to maintain its orbit and set up phasing conditions for 88P launch tentatively scheduled for launch on May 30th.
Payloads:
Bone on ISS: Samples were collected and processed for the Bone on ISS experiment. More information on this experiment can be found here.
CLINGERS: Software was uploaded to the two CLINGERS units using an Express Rack Laptop (ELC) in preparation future Astrobee/CLINGERS free flyer operation. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Gaucho Lung: Sample 6 was processed and four runs of oil wicking and pushback using the syringe pump were performed. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Water Recovery System (WRS) Rack and Treadmill 2 (T2) Nominal Reconfiguration: Today, the crew successfully placed the WRS Rack and T2 back into its nominal configuration. This task included the reinstallation of T2 hardware, configuration of the WRS-1 Rack into its nominal configuration, and the reinstallation of the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to the WRS-1 Rack.
T2 Snubber Cup Alignment and Activation and Checkout (ACO): During the installation of T2 hardware it was discovered that one of the Snubber Cups was out of alignment. As a result a Snubber Cup Alignment activity was added to the crew’s timeline. Once completed, and following the first NG-20 reboost, the crew completed the T2 ACO. This activity included the crew placing T2 back into its nominal configuration and then performing a test exercise session with video downlink. The video downlink allows the ground team to ensure that T2 is operating correctly. T2 allows the crew to run with simulated gravity while minimizing the forces applied to the ISS.
Catalytic (Cat) Reactor Development Test Objective (DTO) Stowage Preparation: To prepare the Cat Reactor DTO removed from the WRS yesterday for return, the crew removed the cover and where water was present used a towel to dry the Cat Reactor internals. By removing water internal to the Cat Reactor, the crew is reducing the potential for mold growth while waiting for its return to Earth.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Operations: Today, the crew completed activities related to the EMUs. These tasks included the resizing of EMUs 3003, 3004, and 3009, EMU Helmet Install, and an EMU Swap. These tasks were completed in preparation for the upcoming trio of USOS EVAs scheduled in June.
Station Support Computer (SSC) 9 and 12 Swap: Today, the crew swapped out the SSC that is located in the SpaceX Crew Dragon Endeavor, SSC 12, with SSC 9. SSC 9 was updated with the latest set of procedures this week. This update and swap is completed on a regular basis to ensure that the crew has offline access to all of the most up-to-date procedures in the event of an emergency situation that requires them to shelter in their crew vehicle.
