
Payloads:
Environmental Health System (EHS) Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): Visual analysis of Coliform detection bags was conducted after 44 hours of incubation. More information on this experiment can be found here.
STEMonstration Earth Science Demonstration: An educational video was recorded explaining how the space station is used to observe the Earth and discuss how instruments and sensors installed on the space station help provide valuable information about Earth and its resources. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Water Resupply System (WRS) Catalytic (Cat) Reactor Remove and Replace (R&R): Following the completed preparation activities yesterday, the crew successfully completed the WRS Cat Reactor R&R, with the task being completed 45 minutes ahead of schedule. The ground team then commanded a flush of the new Cat Reactor, followed by the crew closing up the WRS Rack, and finally ground commanding to activate the Water Processing Assembly (WPA). 
Ion Exchange (IX) Bed R&R: Taking advantage of the already open WRS Rack, the crew completed an IX Bed R&R. The IX Bed is responsible for removing the oxidized by-products introduced by the Cat Reactor and turns the recovered water into potable water.
NG-20 Cygnus Cargo Transfer Operations: Today, the crew performed cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-20 cargo vehicle. The crew is loading the cargo vehicle with items slated for disposal in preparation for its departure from station this summer.
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Extended Maintenance: Today, the crew performed extended maintenance on all the CSA-CP units in the ISS. The maintenance involved replacing the batteries in each unit followed by performing a zero calibration on each unit. The CSA-CP enables the crew to, in an off-nominal or contingency scenario, to measure Carbon Monoxide, Hydrogen Cyanide, Hydrogen Chloride, and Oxygen using electrochemical sensors.
Chip Measurement System (CMS) Unit Deploy and Battery Changeout: The crew deployed three new CMS Units and installed batteries in each. The CMS unit allows the crew to analyze the cabin atmosphere for the presence of Ammonia, Benzene, Carbon Monoxide, Formaldehyde, Nitrous Fumes, Ozone, Phosgene, and Styrene.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
