
Private Astronaut Mission (PAM) Axiom-2 (Ax-2):
Commercial, Outreach, and Payload Activities: Today, the Ax-2 crew completed several photo and video activities that will be used for commercial and marketing purposes. Crew also conducted three media outreach events, including a live event with Space Center Houston, as well as interviews with CBS and Men’s Health. Additionally, crew attempted the first operation of Digital Voice Assistant and completed a successful Ham Radio Pass with the Middlesboro School System. The crew also completed activities associated with ISS National Lab sponsored payloads including Nebula Biodata, Cancer in LEO, Stellar Stem Cells, Nanoracks, and RNA Response.
Payloads:
Cancer in Low Earth Orbit (LEO) (Ax-2): In support of day 2 of the experiment, samples were observed in the KEyence Research MIcroscope Testbed (KERMIT) and then transferred back to their Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL) incubator. Modeling Tumor Organoids (Cancer in LEO) expands on previous research using tissues cultured in orbit to develop models that predict development of cancers. Such models may contribute to development of countermeasures to mitigate cancer risk on future space missions and provide tools for detecting and treating cancer and other diseases on Earth.
ISS Ham Passes (Ax-2): Ham Radio contact was established with the Middlesboro School System. ISS Ham Radio connects youth, educators, and members of the public with a crew member on the ISS via amateur radio. Prior to the event, the students learn about space, the space station, Earth observation from space, wireless technology, and radio science. These experiences give students first-hand exposure to life in space and inspires the next generation of explorers.
Nanoracks Cloud Seeding (Ax-2): The Ax-2 crew installed the Nanoracks Cloud Seeding Nanolab into the Nanoracks Mainframe Alpha facility. Nanoracks Cloud Seeding explores the process of cloud seeding in microgravity. Cloud Seeding is the process of adding nucleation materials to the atmosphere to generate and control the amount of rain fall in a region. Results could help scientists develop techniques for cloud seeding to support future settlements on the Moon or Mars.
Ribonucleic acid (RNA) Response (Ax-2): The Ax-2 crew, with the assistance of an ISS crewmember, prepared the inoculum, seeded the 48-well cell culture plates, and then transferred them to the SABL incubator. This marks the start of day 1 of the experiment. mRNA Response and Stability in Microgravity and Consequences for Inflammation Research and Biotechnology (RNA Response) investigates changes in mRNA stability in microgravity and resulting effects on the inflammatory response of human cells. Results could provide insight into whether microgravity changes the mechanism that turns off inflammation.
Stellar Stem Cells (Ax-2): The Ax-2 crew, with the assistance of an ISS crewmember, retrieved the 96-well cell culture plates and seeded Plate 4. Plates 1 and 2 were inserted into KERMIT for observation and imaging. They also performed transfection operations on Plate 1, which is the introduction of foreign nucleic acids into the cells. This marks day 3 of the multi-day experiment session. Establishing In-Space Production of Stem Cell Therapies (Stellar Stem Cells) evaluates the impact of gravity on terrestrial methods used to generate, proliferate, and differentiate stem cells into a variety of tissue types. Insight into stem cell growth in space may help address the challenges that currently limit using these cells as therapies in regenerative medicine.
AstroPi: The 6mm Camera Lens was removed from the AstroPi Vis unit and the Bumper Legs were removed from both the AstroPi Vis and IR units. This completes the European AstroPi Challenge Mission ‘Life in Space’. Two augmented Raspberry Pi computers (called AstroPis) were flown to the ISS and are both equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detects how the station moves through space, and picks up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different types of cameras: one has an infrared camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Water Recovery System (JWRS): The JWRS apparatus composed of the JEM WRS Water Processor and the JEM WRS Controller was removed from Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR). The demonstration of JWRS generates potable water from urine. In the past, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard. However, for long-term space missions, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Ring Sheared Drop-Interfacial Bioprocessing of Pharmaceuticals (RSD-IBP): The existing syringe and test cell (Sample 25) were removed and a new syringe and new test cell (Sample 26) were installed into the RSD hardware in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Work Volume. The ISS’s RSD is a containerless liquid system that makes it possible to study protein solutions without the effects of interactions with solid walls. RSD-IBP studies the behavior of high-concentration protein fluids and tests computer models for predicting that behavior. More accurate models could enable production of next-generation medicines for treating cancers and other diseases.
Systems:
Health Maintenance System (HMS) – Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: Today, the ISS crew completed routine OCT2 eye exams. OCT2 is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
ISS Crew Stowage Operations: Today, the crew continued prepacking items for return to Earth on SpX-28. Next, the crew stowed materials previously gathered for bagging the S-Band Radio Frequency Group (RFG). The RFG was previously planned to be brought into the Airlock and stowed following the USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #86 performed on April 28th.
