
Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM) Inflation: The crew began inflation operations this morning. During the course of two hours, the crew slowly pressurized BEAM using ISS cabin air, but BEAM only moved ~5 inches compared to the expected 72 inches in displacement and increased from 12 inches compared to the expected ~34 inches of increase in diameter. Once the pressure rose above the maximum planned levels, teams agreed to stand down on operations to discuss the forward plan and analyze the situation. There will be no inflation attempts tomorrow. BEAM pressures will be checked overnight and tomorrow morning. The ISS and BEAM are in safe configuration.
 
Auxin Transport Run #2: Following a three day incubation of samples in the Cell Biology Experiment Unit (CBEF), the crew completed fixation of those samples, which closes out the Auxin Transport experiment run. The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Auxin Transport investigation clarifies the role of auxins in pea and maize (corn) seedlings grown in microgravity, leading to new insight into how gravity, or the lack of gravity, affects plant development. This study is expected to contribute to increasing efficiency of plant cultivation in plant factories. The data obtained from the second experiment run will provide evidence of spaceflight‐alterations in auxin polar transport and endogenous levels of auxin, resulting in automorphogenesis.
 
Human Research Facility (HRF) Resupply: The crew removed expired limited life items and resupplied with fresh items with coordination from the ground. Photos of the new items and their location were downlinked for review and verification by ground teams.
 
Treadmill 2 (T2) Inspection: The crew completed this monthly maintenance to inspect the bungee shackle key mount witness marks, Y-Axis isolators, 2 bottom snubbers and all 4 snubber arms for signs of free play. No issues were reported.
 
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Maintenance: The crew completed this regularly scheduled maintenance to zero calibrate and replace battery packs in all CSA-CPs. Following these activities the units were deactivated.

