
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) High Definition (HD) Video Drawer Checkout: Following yesterday’s installation of the new HD video drawer and two HD video monitors, the crew continued the upgrade process for the MSG video equipment by completing checkout activities. After the hardware was set up and powered, the video signals were routed using the HD Video Drawer Graphical User Interface (GUI) located as a remote desktop application on the MSG Laptop Computer. The MSG HD video hardware was stowed following completion of the checkout activities.
 
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks were completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation.  This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth’s gravity.
 
Dose Tracker: The crew completed entries for medication tracking. This investigation documents the medication usage of crew members before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The investigation collects information about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM) Vestibule Outfitting: The crew completed Node 3 (N3) Aft vestibule pressurization and leak check, opened the hatch, and completed installation and hardware deployment in N3 Aft BEAM Vestibule for all of the equipment required to support tomorrow’s planned BEAM deployment. Completed tasks were:

Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Control Panel Assembly (CPA) and Center Disc Cover (CDC) removal,
ground strap installation,
deployment of BEAM deployment controller with associated cables except for power cable,
deployment of multimeter with BEAM Resistive Thermal Device (RTD) jumper,
installation of BEAM Vestibule data cable.

BEAM ingress is scheduled for June 2.
 
OA-6 Cargo Transfer Operations: Today the crew completed OA-6 unpack.

