
Payloads:
AstroPi: Video was recorded of the Infrared (IR) Light-Emitting Diode (LED) Matrix display and the video was downlinked to the ground to evaluate the status of the unit. More information on this experiment can be found here. 
Gaucho Lung: Sample 5 was processed and four runs of oil wicking and pushback using the syringe pump were performed. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Crew Quarters (CQ) VelociCalc Airflow Measurements: The crew performed airflow measurements in the Port CQ. These measurements will allow the ground team to understand if the CQs ventilation system is providing sufficient airflow to prevent CO2 buildup.
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: The crew performed a monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screen tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking, and spatial processing.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Airlock Unstow: In preparation for the upcoming USOS EVAs planned in June, the crew removed all unnecessary hardware and cargo transfer bags (CTBs) from the Airlock and stowed them elsewhere on the ISS. This will ensure that during EVA operations the crew has sufficient space to work and helps to maintain the safety of the crew.
Ultrasound 2 Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) Exam: The crew used the ultrasound device to perform a VTE scan. This routine medical exam utilizes existing on-orbit eye exam ultrasound hardware for imaging of the neck, clavicle, shoulder, and behind the knee. VTE scans utilize a different frequency than the eye exams. VTE is a condition that occurs when a blood clot forms in a vein. On Earth, this VTE is usually due to bed rest or sitting to long without moving, such as during travel; however, in space, VTE can be caused by distension and alteration of vascular structures due to fluid shifts, changes in red blood cell counts on-orbit causing blood viscosity changes, or stress.
