
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA):  The crew set up the SUBSA hardware today and installed a calibration sample.  The objective of the SUBSA investigation is to advance understanding of the processes involved in semiconductor crystal growth. It offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C. Samples are contained in transparent quartz or ceramic ampoules with high definition video imaging available in real-time along with remote commanding of thermal control parameters.
European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS):  The crew decommissioned and removed ESA’s EMCS for return on the SpaceX-15 vehicle.  The EMCS Holding Structure will be temporarily stowed in the Cygnus vehicle. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  Today the crew collected saliva and body samples and placed them inside a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) in support of the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation.  MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1-year period.  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time. 
Orbital ATK (OA)-9 cargo status:  The crew is scheduled for ~8 hours of Cygnus Cargo operations today. The crew has completed 13.5 hours of cargo operations since last Friday.  Cargo specialist estimate approximately 16 hours of cargo operations remain to complete Cargo Message #1.  Cargo Message #1 will unload the Cygnus vehicle and load about 1/3 of the trash.     
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: This evening ground robotics controllers will ungrapple the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) from the OA-9 Cygnus spacecraft. Once complete, the SSRMS will backaway from the vehicle, complete a walkoff to Mobile Base System (MBS)-1, and stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) in preparation for tomorrow‘s planned robotic surveys. 

