
External (EXT) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM)-1 Failure: On Saturday EXT MDM-1 experienced an anomaly. Attempts to recover the MDM remotely were unsuccessful.  Ground Teams configured EXT MDM-2 as primary and set up systems for the next worse failure per established Flight Rules. An IMMT was held Sunday and directed Team 4 to assess the feasibility of performing an Extravehicular Activity (EVA) to remove and replace (R&R) the failed unit. Team 4 recommended an EVA tomorrow, May 23rd.  Today, the crew prepared for the EVA by configuring and auditing EVA Tools, reviewing procedures, performing an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Water Recharge, and configuring the Airlock. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to perform a video and imagery survey of the Latching End Effector B (LEE-B) snare cables using the P1 Upper Outboard (UPOB) External High Definition Camera (EHDC).  Once the survey was completed the Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position.  The plan was to walk the SSRMS off Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 4 (PDGF4) onto the Node 2 PDGF but it was decided to delay this until after the External Multiplexer/Demultiplexer 1 (EXT-MDM 1) EVA. 
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): After retrieving the eight Space Bubble Detectors from the Russian crew, the USOS crew deployed the detectors in Node 3 for the Radi-N2 experiment. The Canadian Space Agency’s RaDI-N investigation uses the bubble detectors to measure neutron radiation levels in the ISS.
Grip Commissioning:  The crew deployed Grip hardware in the Columbus module central aisle.  With support from a second crew member, they attached a chair on a seat track and the first crewmember performed commissioning tasks in the seated configuration. The Grip investigation tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects. Results may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments, support design and control of haptic interfaces to be used in challenging environments such as space, and provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.  

