ISS On-Orbit Status 05/25/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
&gt;&gt;&gt;SpaceX Dragon:  Dragon was successfully captured by the ISS’ robotic Canadarm at 9:56am EDT when ISS was 251 miles over NW Australia.  Berthing followed at 12:02pm, after a flight of 3d 8h 18m since launch of its Falcon 9 rocket at Cape Canaveral.  Sincere congratulations to SpaceX, NASA/COTS and everyone else behind this really cool and poignantly historic event!&lt;&lt;&lt;
 
After wakeup, CDR Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Before breakfast, Kononenko completed a session each with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.  Involving visual urine assessment, MO-9 is one of 4 Russian crew health status checkups currently being conducted (the other three: MO-3 (Physical Fitness Evaluation), MO-7 (Calf Volume Measurement) &amp; MO-8 (Body Mass Measurement).      [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]
 
FE-2 Revin concluded his first session with the standard 24-hour ECG (electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2-1 protocol, started yesterday.     [After the ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system, Anton doffed the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads over the past 24 hours, recording data on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results were then downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data were downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]
 
FE-3 Acaba conducted Part 2 of the periodic personal acoustic measurement protocol, retrieving the crew-worn acoustic dosimeters of the SMK (Sound Measurement Kit) from the three 29S crewmembers Kononenko, Kuipers &amp; Pettit and deploying them for static measurements in the station.     [#1003 in ATV-3, #1004 in US Lab, #1005 in SM.]
 
Afterwards, Joe gathered and readied the equipment required for Dragon pressurization and leak checking tonight.
 
FE-5 Kuipers meanwhile powered up the Dragon CUCU (COTS UHF Communication Unit), connected the CCP (Crew Command Panel) cable from the Lab to the Cupola and performed a final checkout test.
 
FE-6 Pettit configured the Lab &amp; Cupola RWSs (Robotic Workstations) for monitoring Dragon approach, then started up &amp; configured the POC DOUG (Portable Onboard Computer Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) software to support SSRMS maneuvering.    
 
For the actual capture (in darkness, with external floodlights), Don Pettit maneuvered the SSRMS and, with André standing by, performed successful capture at 9:56am EDT.
 
Don &amp; André then used powerful binoculars, supported by the Lab starboard zenith &amp; SSRMS base elbow cameras, to inspect the Dragon’s PCBM (Passive Common Berthing Mechanism) and its three O-rings for FOD (Foreign Object/Debris), while ISS reconfigured its attitude for the berthing.
 
FE-3 Acaba meanwhile powered up the CBCS (Centerline Berthing Camera System) inside the Node-2 at its nadir port, which will provide the visual guidance for Dragon berthing by Pettit &amp; Kuipers.  
 
Dragon was then moved to the pre-install/hold position, aligned with the Node-2 nadir CBM.
 
The berthing was completed with 2<sup>nd</sup> Stage Capture at 12:02pm by SSRMS Operator Pettit and CBM Operator Acaba, followed by Joe &amp; Don going through the steps of removing the CBCS and conducting the 1:05h pressurization &amp; leak check of the vestibule between Node-2 and Dragon.
 
After hatch opening, Joe &amp; Don will work through Vestibule Outfitting, consisting of CBM center disk removal and installation of 2 power jumpers, 2 data cables and one ARS (Atmosphere Revitalization System) jumper, while André will be powering off CUCU &amp; CCP and removing the CCP cabling.
 
Meanwhile in the RS (Russian Segment), Kononenko &amp; Revin, working together on another handover activity, continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, today working in the SM for cleaning its numerous Group A ventilator fans &amp; grilles.
 
Padalka completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Gennady also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Oleg, Sergei &amp; Gennady had another 1.5h for more Russian E-30/E-31 “knowledge handover” activities.
 
Revin also completed another 30-min. session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining SONY HDV-Z7E camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the Central Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.
 
The CDR collected &amp; downloaded the periodic sensor readings of the Russian “Pille-MKS” (MKS = ISS) radiation dosimetry experiment which has 11 sensors placed at various locations in the RS (DC1, SM starboard &amp; port cabin windows, ASU toilet facility, control panel, MRM2, MRM1, etc.) and four in CQs.     [The memory/flash card was then replaced.  Today’s readings were taken manually from all 11 deployed dosimeters and logged on a data sheet.  The dosimeters take their readings automatically every 90 minutes.]
 
Oleg &amp; Gennady had 1:05h reserved for another round of filming onboard “Chronicle” newsreel footage using the SONY HVR-Z7E camcorder and the NIKON D2X &amp; D3 still cameras, part of the ongoing effort to create a “Life on the Station” photo &amp; video documentary database on the flight of ISS-31 (“Flight Chronicles”) for Telecanal Roskosmos.      [Footage subjects generally include running experiments, current activities at the station, repair activities behind panels, exercise, cosmonauts looking out the window at the Earth, Earth surface, station interior, cosmonaut in zero gravity, leisure, life on orbit, personal hygiene, meals, station exterior, comm. passes with the ground, ham radio passes, station cleaning, spacesuits, space hardware, MRM1, MRM2, DC1, FGB, Soyuz &amp; Progress, intermodular passageways, meeting a new crew, crewmember in space, medical experiments, handover activities, crew return preparations, farewell ceremonies, etc.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]
 
Padalka also performed “symbolic” activity with the Fujifilm FinPix REAL 3D W3 photo camera, taking 3D still pictures of onboard scenes for about 1:45h.        [Scenes of interest: Cosmonauts conducting experiments onboard the station, leisure time (reading books, watching movies, talking to family), meals, sleep and mementos from Earth (books, photos, toys, children’s drawings).  The photos were then copied from the memory card to a return hard drive for return on Soyuz 29S.]
 
FE-3 Acaba undertook the monthly inspection of the T2/COLBERT treadmill system and its components, checking pin alignment, rack centering and the snubber jam nut witness marks.  Today’s inspection particularly focused on VIS (Vibration Isolation System) corner hardware witness marks and the damaged rack composite for signs of additional wear.     [Witness marks (12 total) are applied to the X-, Y- &amp; Z-axis jam nuts on each (of four) snubber arm.  Their inspection serves to determine to what degree and which jam nuts are backing off.]
 
In the Lab, Joe later performed troubleshooting on the failed laptop of the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment at the WORF (Window Observational Research Facility).      [Steps included manually powering on laptop while on internal battery power, correcting BIOS settings, disconnecting/reconnecting the Firewire cable and checking circuit breaker status.]
 
Joe had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on the personal SSC.    [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Before Presleep, Pettit will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Don turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Before sleeptime, Kononenko &amp; Revin are to perform standard service on the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in the MRM1 Rassvet, downloading the new batch of structural dynamics measurements of the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer of today’s Dragon berthing ops to the RSE1 laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.       [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.]
 
In preparation for tonight’s ISS/ATV reboost, Joe Acaba will close the protective shutters of the Lab, Node-3/Cupola &amp; Kibo module windows to prevent their contamination with thruster effluents.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-2, FE-3, FE-5), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3), and VELO bike ergometer with load trainer (CDR, FE-1).        [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.] 
 
ISS/ATV Reboost:  Tonight at 8:10am EDT, a one-burn ISS reboost with ATV-3 “Edoardo Amaldi” OCS (Orbit Correction System) thrusters will be conducted for a duration of 6 min 17 sec and a delta-V of 0.9 m/s (2.95 ft/s), resulting in a predicted mean altitude increase of 1.51 km (0.81 nmi).  Purpose of this reboost and a second one in June is to set up orbit phasing for Soyuz 29S landing (7/1).
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were B.P. Structure, Impact Crater, Libya (IMPACT CRATERS.    Looking left.  This small 2 km-diameter crater is located in a region of dark rocks, between light-toned dune fields.  The local visual cue is an S-bend ridge which points toward the crater.  B.P. is an exposed impact crater 2 km in diameter, estimated at less than 120 million years in age), and Hurricane “Bud”, Eastern Pacific Ocean, Mexico (DYNAMIC EVENT.   Looking left of track for the eye of what was expected to be a Category 1 storm by the time of this pass.  Still a Category 2 storm yesterday [5/24], cloud cover of this hurricane is covering a large area, with outer cloud bands extending far into Mexico.  It was expected to dissipate out over the ocean next week).
 

