
JAXA Mouse Mission: The crew performed blood draws and cage water maintenance for the Mouse Mission experiment. The purpose of this mission is to analyze alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term space environment. 
Genes in Space-6: The crew performed photography and provided observation notes for the CRISPR yeast growth media plates. Colonies were selected for DNA extraction and amplification using the miniPCR16 DNA analyzer. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage caused by increased exposure to radiation can affect the long-term health of astronauts. The experiment determines the optimal DNA repair mechanisms that cells use in the spaceflight environment. The investigation evaluates the entire process in space for the first time by inducing DNA damage in cells and assessing mutation and repair at the molecular level using the miniPCR and the Biomolecule Sequencer tools aboard the space station. 
Astrobee: The crew performed Astrobee module mapping in preparation for future free flyer operations. This was a repeat of a previous mapping attempt. Astrobee is a series of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots. The robots are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the ISS. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Fiber Optic Production (FOP): The crew installed the FOP hardware into the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), changed out the preform and spools and activated the facility in preparation for the next operation run which is initiated from the ground. The investigation creates optical fibers with high commercial value aboard the ISS using a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium, and aluminum called ZBLAN (ZrF4-BaF2-LaF3-AlF3-NaF). It operates in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). Extensive theoretical studies along with a limited number of experimental studies suggest that ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity should exhibit far superior qualities to those produced on Earth. The resulting optical fiber from Fiber Optic Production is expected to help verify these studies and guide further engineering efforts to manufacture high value optical fiber in large volume aboard the ISS. 
Laboratory (Lab) Charcoal HEPA Integrated Particle Scrubber (CHIPS) Filter Install: Today the crew removed six existing bacteria filters in the Lab and replaced them with the new CHIPS filters that were delivered on NG-11. By adding charcoal to the filter system, experts hope to scrub volatile siloxanes from the air before they can affect other ISS systems. Installing these filters on ISS is a key objective for NASA’s exploration vehicle programs because data collected after the install will determine how charcoal affects the life of the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) and other downstream hardware. These filters have already been installed in both Node 2 (N2) and Node 3 (N3).
71 Progress (71P) ISS Reboost: At 11:08 AM CT, the ISS performed a 2.56 meter/second reboost, with a duration of 19 minutes and 56 seconds, using 71P thrusters. This reboost, which increased ISS altitude by 4.4 km, was required to start phasing of the ISS orbit in preparation for 57S undock scheduled on June 24.

