
JAXA Mouse Mission: Today the crew performed Mouse blood draws for the Mouse Mission experiment. The purpose of this mission is to analyze any alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term space environment.
Bio-Analyzer Commissioning: The crew mixed raw finger blood with Microvial reagents and placed the sample into the Bio-Analyzer for analysis. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, existing instrumentation for the analysis of biological samples is almost completely lacking as compared to capabilities found in laboratories on Earth. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Analyzer Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Analyzer facility which was specifically developed to quantify molecules and cells in body fluids such as blood, urine or saliva. The analysis is conducted on blood samples collected through a finger prick and the instrument provides the data within 2 hours after blood collection. 
Multi-purpose Variable-G Platform Cell-01 (MVP Cell-01): The crew removed and exchanged nutrients for the Cell-01 experiment modules and reinserted the modules back into the MVP. The Cartilage–Bone–Synovium (CBS) Micro-Physiological System (MPS) using the MVP Cell-01 aboard the ISS studies the effects of spaceflight on musculoskeletal disease biology. Motivated by a disease called Post-traumatic Osteoarthritis, in which a traumatic joint injury may lead to arthritis after loss of cartilage and bone, the ability of potential drugs to prevent the progression of this disease is tested on Earth and in space.
Fiber Optic Production (FOP): The crew performed a preformed fiber and spool change to initiate runs. The Fiber Optic Production investigation creates optical fibers with high commercial value aboard the ISS using a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium, and aluminum called ZBLAN (ZrF4-BaF2-LaF3-AlF3-NaF). It operates within the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). Extensive theoretical studies along with a limited number of experimental studies suggest that ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity should exhibit far superior qualities to those produced on Earth. The resulting optical fiber from Fiber Optic Production is expected to help verify these studies and guide further engineering efforts to manufacture high value optical fiber in large volume aboard the ISS.
Sextant Navigation for Exploration Missions (Sextant Navigation): The crew performed checkout and the second session of operations of the Sextant Navigation hardware based upon selected observation targets during orbital night. The investigation focuses on stability and star sighting opportunities in microgravity. Astronauts on board the ISS tests a hand-held sextant that is intended for use on future Orion exploration missions. The results from this investigation can aid in the development of emergency navigation methods for future manned spacecraft.
EXHAM (Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism): The crew repressed the JEM airlock and swapped out samples in the Handheld Experiment Platform-2 with new samples on the JEM A/L slide table. Taking advantage of Kibo’s unique function of having both an airlock and a robotic arm among modules on the ISS, the ExHAM facility enables space experiments to be performed in the exposed space environment, by attachment to the Japanese Experiment Module Kibo’s Exposed Facility (EF).
Centerline Berthing Camera System (CBCS) Troubleshooting (T/S): In April, CBCS String 1 failed the NG-11 pre-flight system checkout. When video was routed, only a black screen was visible on the ground. After troubleshooting, the ground team instructed the crew to remove String-1 and install String-3, which successfully completed its checkout and provided good video to the ground. Today, the ground and crew started an activity to isolate the root cause, however, CBCS String-1 powered up nominally and provided video to the ground. No further troubleshooting was performed and String-1 is considered nominal.  

