
Biological Experiment Laboratory (BioLab): The crew installed Experiment Containers (ECs) on the Biolab Centrifuge Rotors inside the incubator. The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the Columbus laboratory. It is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Genes in Space-6 (GIS-6): The crew stowed the Biomolecular Sequencer hardware which was used for the Freeze and Fly part 2 portion of GIS-6 activities. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage caused by increased exposure to radiation can affect the long-term health of astronauts. Genes in Space-6 determines the optimal DNA repair mechanisms that cells use in the spaceflight environment. The investigation evaluates the entire process in space for the first time by inducing DNA damage in cells and assessing mutation and repair at the molecular level using the miniPCR and the Biomolecule Sequencer tools aboard the ISS. 
Rodent Research-12 (RR-12): The crew completed rodent operations as well as Access Unit Cleaning and Mass Measurement Device (MMD) stow activities. Rodent Research-12, Tetanus Antibody Response by B cells in Space (TARBIS), examines the effects of spaceflight on the function of antibody production and immune memory. Spaceflight is known to have a dramatic influence on immune response, but there is little research on its effect following an actual challenge to the body’s immune system. Using a mouse model makes this possible, as the mouse immune system closely parallels that of humans.
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Shutdown: The Node 3 CDRA was activated this morning following an unexpected shutdown of the Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) payload to retain proper CO2 scrubbing capability while ground teams assess the data for TAS.  However, the Flight Control Team commanded a Node 3 CDRA shutdown after observing an off-nominal pump down sequence. Lab CDRA was activated and it is currently operating nominally. Ground teams successfully completed a nominal restart of the Pump Motor Controller (PMC) and will configure the Node 3 CDRA to run several half-cycles while teams monitor performance.

