
Payloads:
Acoustic Diagnostics: The Acoustic Diagnostics measurements were performed. The Acoustic Upgraded Diagnostics In-Orbit (AUDIO) investigation tests the hearing of ISS crew members before, during, and after flight. This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions, sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear, and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
Cerebral Autoregulation: The Cardiolab Portable Doppler hardware, laptop, and cables were setup in preparation of Cerebral Autoregulation Data measurement. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The Cerebral Autoregulation investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space. Non-invasive tests measure blood flow in the brain before, during, and after a long-duration spaceflight, and provide new insights into how the brain safeguards its blood supply in a challenging environment.
EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station Racks (EXPRESS Rack): Updated software load was performed on the Express Rack-2 laptop. The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): XROOTS plants were checked, photos were taken, and observations were documented. Unfortunately, based upon downlinked photos, microbial growth was confirmed on modules 3 and 4. The investigators have requested these module cartridges be trashed.  The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions
Systems:
ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) Helmet Water Tests: Today, the crew ran multiple tests on the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) EVA helmet to investigate the anomaly during EVA #80. Today, the crew completed two water flow tests and a swish test on the EMU helmet to examine how the water forms in the helmet and to help determine the origins of the water seen during US EVA #80.
Water Recovery System (WRS) Contingency Water Container (CWC)-Iodine Fill: The CWC is a soft container with an inner bladder that can store a variety of liquids including humidity condensate, wastewater, and other unique fluids such as Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) wastewater. Originally, CWCs were used for the transport and resupply of potable water from the shuttle to the ISS.  Today’s activity involved transferring water from the Potable Bus into a CWC-Iodine container using the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD). The crew monitored the offload time as a secondary control to protect the CWC-Iodine from over-pressurization.

