
Rodent Research-3 (RR-3) Operations: The crew completed operations on 5 more rodents, performing bone densitometry measurements, then transferring the rodents to the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) for sample processing.  Today’s operations conclude this session of RR activities. The next activities are tentatively planned following SpaceX-10 arrival. This investigation studies the molecular and physical changes to the musculoskeletal system that occur in space. Results will expand scientists’ understanding of muscle atrophy and bone loss in space while testing an antibody that has been known to prevent muscle wasting in mice on Earth.
 
Meteor Software Image Loads: Software load was successfully completed using an uplinked image that was copied to the laptop versus using DVDs as originally planned. However, due to a Window Observational Research Facility (WORF) Space Station Power Control Module (SSPCM) inverter trip, the hardware setup could not be completed. Laptop power will remain on to enable the payload developer to exercise command capabilities and the payload 3 power switch will remain off while ground teams work to resolve the issue. Meteor is a new ISS payload with the objective to fly a visible spectroscopy instrument to the ISS to observe meteors in Earth orbit. Meteor uses image analysis to provide information on the physical and chemical properties of the meteoroid dust, such as size, density, and chemical composition. Since the parent comets or asteroids for most of the meteor showers are identified, the study of the meteoroid dust on orbit provides information about the parent comets and asteroids. The plan is to operate Meteor for 2 years in the Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last night Robotics Ground Controllers (ROBO) powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to grapple and unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture 2 (PDGF2). While releasing SPDM from MBS PDGF2, SSRMS Force and Moment Sensor (FMS) Coarse Characterization was performed. The SSRMS, while holding SPDM, was then maneuvered to perform the RapidScat payload video survey. ROBO will return SPDM to the Mobile Base System (MBS) and translate the Mobile Transporter (MT) to Worksite 6.
 
Systems Operations Data File (SODF) Updates: The crew incorporated a new hatch diagram schematic reflecting Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM) on Node 3 Aft in the emergency procedures. This is in preparation for next week’s planned BEAM vestibule outfitting and inflation operations.
 
ARED status:  Yesterday, the crew reported a loud noise during ARED exercise.  Ground investigations and on-orbit troubleshooting determined that the right hand ARED rope had come off of its pulley and this resulted in overload of the left hand rope, causing its pulley to jump several teeth.  Today, the crew reset the right hand rope and adjusted it, recovering ARED nominal operations.
 

