ISS On-Orbit Status 05/29/10
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday –  US Crew off duty; RS crew half-day duty.
 
  At wake-up, FE-1 Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-1 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
  Skvortsov also did the daily morning check on the TBU Universal Bioengineering Thermostat container and reported its current internal temperature to TsUP-Moscow. 
 
  FE-6 Creamer &amp; FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson continued their new week-long session of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), TJ’s 6<sup>th</sup>, Tracy’s 3<sup>rd</sup>, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.    [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  At wake-up, Creamer continued his FD180 (Flight Day 180) session of the Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) medical protocol, his 5<sup>th</sup> on board run, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test (not sampling).     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]
 
  Yesterday, Tracy Caldwell-Dyson completed her four-day FD60 Pro K diet configuration from the discretionary US “job jar” task list.     [Hard scheduling of her future Pro K sessions is being considered.]
 
  Timothy Creamer collected his third liquid saliva sample of the biomed experiment INTEGRATED IMMUNE, storing the sample at ambient temperature for return to the ground.  For TJ, the blood draws for Pro K, NUTRITION-Repository &amp; INTEGRATED IMMUNE will be combined on the morning of 21S undocking.      [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples &amp; analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned on the Shuttle so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.   Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]
 
  CDR Kotov undertook his 4<sup>th</sup> orthostatic hemodynamic endurance test session (of 5) with the Russian Chibis suit in preparation for his return to gravity on 6/1 with Soyuz 21S (along with Soichi Noguchi &amp; Timothy Creamer), conducting the MedOps MO-4 exercise protocol in the below-the-waist reduced-pressure device (ODNT, US: LBNP/Lower Body Negative Pressure) on the TVIS treadmill.   With Kornienko assisting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer), Oleg was supported in his 55-min session by ground specialist tagup in a telemetry pass via VHF at 5:18am EDT on DO4.      [The Chibis provides gravity-simulating stress to the body’s cardiovascular/circulatory system for evaluation of Kotov’s orthostatic tolerance (e.g., the Gauer-Henry reflex) after his long-term stay in zero-G.  Data output includes blood pressure readings.  The preparatory training generally consists of first imbibing 150-200 milliliters of water or juice, followed by one cycle of a sequence of progressive regimes of reduced (“negative”) pressure, set at -25, -35, -40 and -45 mmHg for five min. each, while shifting from foot to foot at 10-12 steps per minute, while wearing a sphygmomanometer to measure blood pressure and the REG SHKO Rheoencephalogram Biomed Cap.  The body’s circulatory system interprets the pressure differential between upper and lower body as a gravity-like force pulling the blood (and other liquids) down.  Chibis data and biomed cardiovascular readings are recorded.  The Chibis suit (not to be confused with the Russian “Pinguin” suit for spring-loaded body compression, or the "Kentavr" anti-g suit worn during reentry) is similar to the U.S. LBNP facility (not a suit) used for the first time on Skylab in 1973/74, although it appears to accomplish its purpose more quickly.]
 
  While the thee Russian crewmembers were busy with the 6/1 Soyuz 21S departure and systems maintenance, Creamer, Caldwell-Dyson &amp; Noguchi completed their part of the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning.     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  Kotov also collected air samples in the SM in the area of the worktable, using the usual Russian air sampling equipment, i.e., the IPD-NH3 Draeger tube sampler for checking for ammonia, and the AK-1M absorber, taking air specimen.  Samples were stowed in the Soyuz TMA-17 SA for return to Earth. 
 
  Later, the CDR had another ~2h for stowing return cargo in the 21S Descent Module.  Excessed items &amp; trash go into the Orbital Module, to be jettisoned for its own atmospheric entry.
 
  Meanwhile, FE-1 Skvortsov worked with FE-3 Kornienko for ~2h20m on transferring, unpacking &amp; stowing cargo delivered on the Russian MRM1 Poisk module, going by an uplinked list of CTB (Cargo Transfer Bag) numbers &amp; stowage locations.
 
  FE-1 completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  Alexander also performed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
  Afterwards, Sasha ran another photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining data on to record color bloom patterns in the Canary upwelling (North-Western Africa), then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.
 
  In the SM, Mikhail Kornienko, using protective goggles &amp; gloves, performed routine IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the ASU toilet facility, removing the MNR-NS pump separator ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit) and replacing it with a new spare.  The old unit was packed in two KBO bags and prepared for disposal.
 
  For his selected VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activity today, FE-5 Noguchi first reviewed briefing material, then set up the CANON G1 video camcorder and conducted a “Sesame Street 1” demo for the JAXA EPO (Educational Payload Operations) in real-time (for feedback from the ground).     [Soichi discussed the word "float" (for Float) and the letter "A" (for Astronaut) for a future episode on Sesame Street.]
 
  In the MRM2 module, Kornienko activated another heating cycle on the Russian experiment BTKh-35 MEMBRANA (Membrane) with Kit 1 (Day 1), later reporting mode 1 &amp; 2 activation times to TsUP-Moscow.  Skvortsov took documentary photography.  At sleeptime, Mikhail will deactivate the payload.     [Objective of Membrana is to study new technological capabilities to generate a porous structure with a high degree of uniformity of spatial distribution and working pore sizes based on the convection-turbulent-free process of phase changes in microgravity in a polymer solution.  Expected outcome is the production of porous polymeric materials.  These are filtering elements, membranes, sorbents having a high degree of structural homogeneity of working pores, acting as "molecular sieves" and possessing the improved selectivity characteristics (selective rejection) when they are used in the separation processes of complex mixtures of macromolecules.  An example would be during extraction of valuable organic and bioorganic preparations in ground-based production.]
 
  In the DC1 Docking Compartment, Mikhail later serviced the BTKh-26 KASKAD (Cascade) payload, retrieving the bioreactor/incubator from the KRIOGEM-03 thermostat-controlled container and relocating it to the KT thermostatic enclosure at +4 degC.  Misha then placed ice packs in KRIOGEM for cooling down to -22 degC (for tomorrow’s MO-21 samples).
 
  Kornienko had another 1-hr block of time reserved for Simvolika mementos, the traditional Russian commemorative items treasured as gifts, today stamping &amp; signing pennants, an ISS newspaper and ISS pennant certificates for the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD), with Skvortsov taking documentary photography.
 
  Noguchi filled out his weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), deferred from yesterday.    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
  Before his sleeptime, Oleg Kotov will make preparations for a microbial air sampling session scheduled tomorrow with the MedOps SZM-MO-21 ECOSFERA equipment, initiating charging on the Ecosphere power pack (BP) and readying the KRIOGEM-03 thermostatic container for the samples.     [The equipment, consisting of an air sampler set, a charger, power supply unit, and incubation tray for Petri dishes, determines microbial contamination of the ISS atmosphere, specifically the total bacterial and fungal microflora counts and microflora composition according to morphologic criteria of microorganism colonies.]
 
  At ~6:44am EDT, Tracy powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 6:49am conducted a ham radio session with students from Trinity Christian School at the Wireless Institute of Australia (WIA), Bayswater, Victoria, Australia.     [Tracy: “On behalf of the International Space Station crew and NASA, I extend our warm congratulations to the Wireless Institute of Australia on reaching 100 years.  The WIA began in 1910 at a time when we could not communicate around the world using radio.  About a decade later radio amateurs had developed worldwide radio communications.  Among the many other contributions of radio amateurs over the years includes space communications.  The first amateur satellite was launched in 1961 just four years after Sputnik 1.  There are advanced and ambitious plans by AMSAT to send amateur satellites into the orbits of Venus and Mars.  All very interesting indeed.  I will now stand by for the questions.”]
 
  At ~9:05am, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  CDR, FE-2 &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Oleg at ~6:00am, Tracy at ~7:25am, TJ at ~12:10pm EDT.
 
  The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-6).
 
 
