ISS On-Orbit Status 05/29/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   FD14 (Flight Day 14) of STS-134/Endeavour/ULF-6.  Sunday – Hatch Closure Day.  Ahead: Week 11 of Increment 27/28
 
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>ISS crew sleep schedule:  Wake – 7:56pm last night; Sleep – 10:56am-7:26pm today.
 
First thing in post-sleep, prior to eating, drinking &amp; brushing teeth, FE-3 Ron Garan performed his 5<sup>th</sup> and final saliva collection of the INTEGRATED IMMUNE protocol (Day 4), today again a liquid sample.  The collections are made every other day for six days.  Later in the day, Garan also completed the IMMUNE blood sample draw, with MS3 Drew Feustel assisting as Operator.  Following the blood draw, the full blood tubes were temp stowed in the blood collection kit until tomorrow when they will be packed together with his saliva samples on the Shuttle for return to ground.        [INTEGRATED IMMUNE (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples &amp; analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmembers soak a piece of cotton inside their mouths and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned to the ground so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]
 
Also at wake-up, Garan undertook another session with the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol, his 14<sup>th</sup>.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
CDR Borisenko conducted the daily monitoring of the running Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM (Service Module) which is taking structural dynamics data during the Shuttle docked phase.  The data were later copied from the BUSD Control &amp; Data Gathering Unit to a USB-D-M-3 stick for downlink to the ground.  The BUSD archive was then deleted and the DAKON-M restarted.      [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control &amp; Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]
 
Andrey also completed the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways to see how the ventilation/circulation system is coping with the 9-person crew.      [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]
 
FE-1 Samokutyayev performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.      [SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].
 
Aleksandr also took care of the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s &amp; FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.
 
Working alongside MS1 Mike Fincke, Ron Garan finished up on the installation of the new CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly) Desiccant/Sorbent Bed 2 in Node-3.  CDRA was successfully restored to full service.
 
After closing the protective window shutters in the Lab, Node-3/Cupola and JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) for the SARJ (Solar Alpha Rotary Joint) feathering and the undocking, Ron assisted the Shuttle crew in their undock preparations.
 
Shortly after 7am EDT, the nine crewmembers joined up for the televised Farewell ceremony, with Expedition 28 crewmembers Andrey Borisenko, Sasha Samokutyayev &amp; Ron Garan exchanging farewell wishes with the Shuttle crew of Mark Kelly, Box Johnson, Spanky Fincke, Roberto Vittori, Drew Feustel &amp; Taz Chamitoff, thanking them for their great work which left the ISS in better condition for continued operations (delivery of AMS &amp; ELC-3 with spares, 4 EVAs, OGS (Oxygen Generation System), CDRA, and transfers).
 
Hatches were closed at 7:23am between Endeavour and the ISS PMA-2 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 2), after 12d 22h 27m since Shuttle launch.  The hatches between the two spacecraft had been opened on 5/18 at 7:38am, staying open for joint crew operations for a total of 10d 23h 45m.  Undocking is scheduled tonight at 11:55pm
 
After hatch closure, FE-3 verified proper installation of the VDS (Video Distribution System) video cap in Node-2 which enables pass-through reception of video from the Endeavour with the Orbiter docked during crew sleep.
 
Ron also performed the periodic snubber arm inspection on the T2/COLBERT treadmill, checking the joints of the arm stacks to track the structural integrity of the hardware following exercise sessions.
 
Before “Presleep” period, Ron Garan powered on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and started the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC was turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Reboost Update:   At ~1:01am, the Endeavour performed a nominal reboost of  ISS, providing a change in velocity of 0.57 m/s (meters/second), resulting in a 1.04 km (kilometer) increase of mean ISS altitude.  For the reboost Pilot Greg Johnson used the VCRS (Vernier Reaction Control System) in Config. 3/Auto Reboost mode. 
 
The ISS crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-3), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1).  Ron Garan’s exercise on CEVIS was not reported.
 


