
Resist Tubule Clean Up: Commander (CDR) Swanson removed the Measurement Experiment Unit B from inside the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) 1-gravity Incubator Unit (IU) and configured the Clean Bench (CB) to a standby mode. More Resist Tubule samples will be processed at a later date. Resist Tubule clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance. Gravity resistance is a principal gravity response in plants, and plays an important role in the transition of plant ancestors from an aquatic environment to a terrestrial environment (about 450 million years ago), and in the consequent establishment of land plants. This present study clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance, in particular the processes from signal transformation and transduction, to response.
Earth Rim Observation Preparation: Swanson set up cameras in the Cupola to take sequential pictures of the Earth’s rim. The images from the Cupola will be taken in conjunction with the nadir-pointing Visible and Infrared Spectral Imager (VISI) on the external Multi-mission Consolidated Equipment (MCE). This will give the ground stereoscopic images to help clarify the structures and dynamics of the Earth’s upper atmosphere using the emission of the airglow and the aurora.
Camera Light Pan Tilt Assembly (CLPA) Remove & Replace (R&R):  Today Robotics Ground Controllers completed CLPA R&R operations that started last Friday.  They used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to remove the new CLPA from the JEM slidetable and install it on the SSRMS Boom.  Ground controllers then completed a checkout of the CLPA.  Pan, tilt, and zoom were all fully functional, but the iris would not fully close. The camera is usable despite this issue.  Additional troubleshooting will be planned at a later date.
Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBAs), and Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs) Inspection: Swanson completed this routine maintenance today, verifying that PBAs, PFEs and EHTKs are free of damage and ensuring functionality.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Status: Following an ARED dashpot inspection, Swanson downlinked photos for review. Ground teams discovered that 2 of the 4 x-axis dashpots are broken. The crew has been instructed to stand down on ARED use until an R&R can be completed later this week.

