
Payloads:
AstroPi: The aperture of the AstroPi Vis 5mm Camera Lens was adjusted for night-time photography.  Two augmented Raspberry Pi computers (called AstroPis) were flown to the ISS and are both equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detects how the station moves through space, and picks up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different types of cameras: one has an infrared camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera.
DEvice for the study of Critical LIquids and Crystallization – Directional Solidification Insert-Reflight (DECLIC DSI-R):The ALICE-Like insert and cable was removed from the DECLIC instrument. The DECLIC is used to study crystal growth in transparent liquids. The DSI portion of DECLIC observes clear alloys that freeze like metals in microgravity.  By providing real-time views of the crystal structures that form in the liquid, DECLIC-DSI sheds light on the physics that control the formation of solid materials.
NanoRacks Module-63 and 83: Photographs of NanoRacks Module-63 and Module -83 were taken free floating in the Cupola with the lit Earth in the background. NanoRacks Modules allow experimenters and students to perform extended on-orbit operations using space-proven hardware. Each individual module houses a unique experiment. Anything approved for transport to ISS can be incorporated into a module experiment, representing any field of science.
Vascular Aging: Today, the crew completed blood pressure measurements using the Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Unit. The Vascular Ultrasound Echo measurements were taken. Emerging data points towards linkage among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS ): Fluid was recovered from the Root Modules and recirculated back into the Fluids Reservoir. Water was also added to the Nutrient Solution and the wicks were checked for wetness. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Boeing Orbital Flight Test 2 (OFT-2) Crew Space Transportation (CST-100) Systems Verification Activities: Today, the crew preformed activities to as to verify CST-100’s capabilities while attached to ISS. The crew was able to perform an audio communication check, a switch panel check, vehicle power up, and a radiator cold start. The on-orbit flight tests are conducted to demonstrate CST-100 spacecraft’s human transportation capabilities.
Boeing OFT-2 Cargo Transfer Activities: Today, the crew completed cargo operations in preparation for OFT-2 return this week. The crew moved cargo out of CST-100, loaded cargo for return, and took photos of the cargo configuration as well as other areas of interest.
Boeing OFT-2 Thermal Protection System (TPS) Survey: Today, Robotics Ground Controllers completed the OFT-2 TPS survey using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). TPS inspections are performed on returning vehicles prior to undock from the ISS to ensure the vehicle is in a good configuration for re-entry. 
Columbus AC Inverter Swap: Today, the crew swapped out a failed AC Inverter in Columbus with a stowed spare. The new AC inverted will be used to power science payloads in the Columbus Module.

