
SpaceX-6 Dragon Departure:  Overnight, the crew disconnected both power jumpers, installed the Center Disk Cover, and closed Node 2 Nadir Hatch.  They then successfully depressurized and pressure checked the Node 2/Dragon vestibule.  Dragon was unberthed from the Node 2 Nadir docking port and subsequently released by the crew utilizing the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) at 6:04am CDT this morning.  Dragon splashdown was in the Pacific Ocean landing zone at 11:42am CDT. The Recovery team has Dragon safely on the recovery boat and they are heading to port.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-Microscopy-3 (M3):  Virts accessed the FIR Light Microscopy Module (LMM) and removed the Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC) that housed the ACE-M3 sample.  He removed the sample and using the Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-3 magnet mixed the samples prior to returning the sample to the LMM.  ACE-M3 research involves the design and assembly of complex three-dimensional structures from small particles suspended within a fluid medium. These so-called self-assembled colloidal structures are vital to the design of advanced optical materials. In the microgravity environment, we will study the relation between particle shape, crystal symmetry and structure, a fundamental issue in condensed matter science.
BCAT-Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (KP) Intervelometer Change:  Cristoforetti changed the camera battery, transferred images to a laptop for ground controllers to downlink, and then set the D2Xs intervalometer.  The BCAT-KP experiment aims to help materials scientists develop new consumer products with unique properties and longer shelf lives. Colloids are mixtures of small particles distributed throughout a liquid, which include milk, detergents and liquid crystals. Gravity affects how the particles clump together and sink, making the International Space Station an ideal platform to study their fundamental behaviors.
Columbus Solid State Drive Installation:  Kelly removed the two Columbus Video Cassette Recorders (VCR) from the starboard end cone then replaced them with two newer design Solid State Drive (SSD) recorders. The newer SSD recorders will provide additional recording capability without the use of Hi-8 tapes. During cable connection portion of the activity, the crew encountered issues with connector clearances. Ground teams are investigating the problem.  

