
Fluid Shifts Baseline Imagery Collection:  Kornienko performed his Flight Day 45 baseline imaging for the Fluid Shifts experiment.  With Padalka as the onboard imager and ground remote guidance, ultrasound imaging was taken of arterial and venous measures of the head and neck, cardiac, ophthalmic and portal vein, and tissue thickness of lower and upper body.  Additional measurements using the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP), Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), ESA’s Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure Device, and Intraocular Pressure (IOP) using the tonometer were taken as well.  The imagery session was within the 10 day requirement following last week’s dilution measurements.  Next week, both Kelly and Kornienko will be performing the same measurements in the Service Module using the Lower Body Negative Pressure (Chibis) device.  Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Columbus (COL) Water On-Off Valve (WOOV)6 Removal and Replacement (R&R):  Cristoforetti replaced the COL InterFace Heat Exchanger (IFHX) WOOV6. Express Rack 3 was tilted down in order to perform the R&R.  Inspection of WOOV6 in April 2013, during WOOV7 replacement, revealed minor corrosion/contamination signs but no operational failures. In August 2014, WOOV6 failed to reach end position during valve cycling but was successfully recovered by direct commanding attempts from COL-CC. Since then the valve has been left in the operational open position.  If WOOV6 were to get stuck in the open position, IFHX Low Temperature Loop (LTL) water side hydraulic isolation would not be possible in the event of a water leak. 
Tonometer Troubleshooting:  Kelly with ground assistance performed troubleshooting of the tonometer following the intermittent readings from the tonometer during his Fluid Shifts session yesterday.  Kelly used the tonometer and the eye tonometry simulator to reattempt data collection.  Images of the hardware were sent down for ground teams to evaluate prior to the Fluid Shifts Tonometry session for Kornienko later in the day.
Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Post Relocation Outfitting:  Kelly installed an Intermodular Ventilation (IMV) Valve on the Node 3 Forward Port Bulkhead to provide PMM with return ventilation.  In addition, Kelly and Virts installed new PMM location-code based labels for Fire Ports, Standoffs and Racks to match the ISS coordinate system with PMM at Node 3 Forward. 

