
Boeing Orbital Flight Test 2 (Boe-OFT2) Launch: On Thursday evening, the Boeing Crew Space Transportation (CST)-100 Starliner spacecraft and United Launch Alliance Atlas V rocket launched at 5:54 p.m. CT to the ISS from Space launch Complex-41 at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida. This uncrewed Boe-OFT2 mission is the second uncrewed test flight of the Starliner spacecraft. A number of flight control and communications checks as well as orbital phasing maneuvers were successfully completed. Docking is planned for this evening, Friday, May 20th, at approximately 6:10 p.m. CT.
Payloads:
AstroPi: The AstroPi Vis 5mm Camera Lens aperture was adjusted for night-time photography. Two augmented Raspberry Pi computers (called AstroPis) were flown to the ISS and are both equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detects how the station moves through space, and picks up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different types of cameras: one has an infrared camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): A crewmember performed a visual inspection of the CAL Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Jumper to check for leaks and reported the observed leakage. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
ISS Ham Radio: A crewmember initiated a contact with Forum Accademico Italiano e.V., Koln, Germany. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about 9 minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Microbial Aerosol Tethering on Innovative Surfaces in the ISS (MATISS): The four MATISS-3 Sample Holders were installed at predefined locations in the Columbus module. Bacteria are a big problem in space as they tend to build up in the constantly-recycled atmosphere of the ISS. The main objective of the MATISS experiment is to find better materials with which to build a space station or spacecraft, which is especially important for longer missions farther from Earth. Researchers will also monitor how bacteria form biofilms that protect them from cleaning agents and help them adhere to surfaces.
Snowcone Cloud Edge Compute Demonstration (Snowcone): The Snowcone Hardware was installed, and photographs were taken that included three orthogonal field of views of hardware and power chain. AWS Snowcone Axiom-1 demonstrates technology to screen astronaut images and identify those that may contain sensitive information not for public release. The technology includes reduction of large-scale data and processing of data near the source, known as edge computing, which are capabilities integral to future space exploration.
Vascular Aging: A crewmember collected a finger blood sample, took glucose measurements using the Glucometer, and consumed a Glucose Drink. Emerging data point towards linkages among cardiovascular health risk, carotid artery aging, bone metabolism and blood biomarkers, insulin resistance, and radiation. Data indicate that aging-like changes are accelerated in many ISS crew members, particularly with respect to their arteries. As part of the Space Environment Causes Acceleration of Vascular Aging: Roles of Hypogravity, Nutrition, and Radiation (Vascular Aging) investigation, ultrasounds of the arteries, blood samples, oral glucose tolerance, and wearable sensors from ISS crewmembers are analyzed.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): XROOTS plants were checked for growth status and photos were taken. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Water Containment Activities: After setting up the Node 2 camera to provide a wide view of the Maintenance Work Area (MWA), the crew reviewed EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) hardware and activities and performed a Helmet Water Flow Test. This test observed the motion of water inside an EMU Helmet to gather baseline knowledge before repeating the test to assess the effectivity of the Helmet Absorption Band and the Helmet Absorption Pad (HAP) Extender. A Helmet Swish Test was then performed to understand how motion causes water to move and liberate from the helmet bubble.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Operations: The TOCA ensures overall potable water quality by monitoring the total organic carbon (TOC) concentration levels in the Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Water Processor Assembly (WPA). Today, the crew recorded data from TOCA WPA via Water Sample Hose analysis and changed out the Waste Water Bag (WWB) as part of nominal procedures.

