
Resist Tubule: Yesterday, Commander (CDR) Swanson removed the Resist Tubule samples from the +2 Celsius Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), inserted the samples into Measurement Experiment Unit B and attached the unit inside the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) micro-gravity Incubator Unit (IU). Today, Swanson inserted more samples from the MELFI into the CBEF 1-gravity IU. Resist Tubule clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance. Gravity resistance is a principal gravity response in plants, and plays an important role in the transition of plant ancestors from an aquatic environment to a terrestrial environment (about 450 million years ago), and in the consequent establishment of land plants. This present study clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance, in particular the processes from signal transformation and transduction, to response.
Radi-N2 Neutron Field Study (Radi-N2): Yesterday, Swanson retrieved eight bubble detectors around the ISS for the Radi-N2 experiment and turned them over to FE-2 Artemyev for analysis in the bubble reader. The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
Onboard Training (OBT) Dragon Debrief Conference: Following the successful unberth of SpX-3 last Sunday, today Swanson conducted a Dragon release/departure debrief with ground teams.
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Hydrogen Sensor Remove & Replace (R&R): Today Swanson replaced the OGS Hydrogen Sensor that had reached end of lifetime.
Potential Onboard Combustion Event: Over the weekend, the crew in the US segment reported an unusual metallic odor, strongest in Node 3.  The crew took Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustible Products (CSA-CP) readings which were all nominal. Shortly thereafter, a Smoke Detector (SD) annunciated a fire in the US Lab.  The crew and ground executed emergency response steps, and again CSA-CP readings were nominal.  The crew found a small piece of partially-charred blue tape floating in the US Lab.  Photos were downlinked for review on the ground.  The specific source of this tape and potential combustion sources are under investigation.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today Robotics Ground Controllers performed a triple walkoff of the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS). The walkoff was from Node 2 to the Lab Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF), then to MBS PDGF1 and finally to the Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF3.  The walkoff positions the SSRMS to support the Camera Light Pan Tilt Assembly (CLPA) R&R scheduled to begin this Friday.

