
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (CIR/SoFIE): The crew gathered hardware in preparation for the sample holder exchange, sample installation, and igniter tip and arm installation. These activities are currently planned for Wednesday and support the Material Ignition and Suppression Test (SoFIE-MIST) experiment. More information on SoFIE-MIST can be found here.
Metal-3D: The crew opened the venting valve on the Metal-3D printer. This will enable printing activities. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Sleep In Orbit: In preparation for upcoming science operations, the crew changed the batteries and replaced the electroencephalogram (EEG) earpiece. EEG is used to study electrical signals in the brain. More information on the Sleep in Orbit experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activities (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) EVA Preparation Operations: Today, the crew competed several activities in preparation for the upcoming USOS EVAs in June. These tasks included EMU Loops Scrubs, EMU Water Recharge, EMU Liquid Cooling Ventilation Garment (LVCG) Water Fill, and Airlock Unstow. During the EMU loops scrubs, EMU 3004’s fan did not start. The ground team had the crew attempt several troubleshooting steps but were unable to recover the fan. The ground team is currently figuring out the best path forward, whether that be performing a Remove and Replace (R&R) activity or using a backup EMU. EMU 3004 is not slated to be used until the second EVA in June.
Treadmill 2 (T2) 6-Month Maintenance and Yearly Inspection: The crew performed 6-month maintenance and yearly inspections on T2. This activity includes axle greasing, drive belt tensioning, snubber cup liner R&R, and fastener torqueing. Performing this maintenance ensures the crew continues to have a variety of options for working out while on-orbit.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation: As part of regular maintenance the crew performed a Cylinder Flywheel Evacuation on ARED. ARED helps the astronauts maintain muscle strength and mass by incorporating adjustable resistance piston-driven vacuum cylinders along with a flywheel system to simulate free-weight exercises in normal gravity.
Brine Processor Assembly (BPA) Operations: The crew prepared the BPA to start a new process cycle. To complete this the crew first removed the processed brine bag from the BPA and installed a new empty brine bag. The crew then configured the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to drain the Recycle Tank (RT) into the empty BPA brine bag. The BPA allows the USOS to increase its water recovery efficiency from 87% to 97%, reducing the need to fly water to the ISS.
UTS Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
