
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (CIR/SoFIE): The crew gained access to the CIR, removed the SoFIE insert, and performed steps needed to replace the sample holder, install experiment samples, igniter tip, and igniter arm. The CIR/SoFIE team is currently discussing how to proceed with a failure of one of the four experiment heaters. More information on SoFIE-MIST can be found here.
Complement of Integrated Protocols for Human Exploration Research on Varying Mission Durations (CIPHER): The crew performed a Cognition test using a Human Research Facility (HRF) computer. Cognition is a battery of ten tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition is one of many experiments covered under the CIPHER umbrella. More information on CIPHER and its suite of investigations can be found here.
Materials Science Research Rack/Materials Science Laboratory (MSRR/MSL): The processed Microstructure Formation in Casting of Technical Alloys Under Diffusive and Magnetically Controlled Convective Conditions-3 (MICAST-3) Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) was removed and the next in the series to be processed (MICAST-3 #9) was installed. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Plant Habitat Facility: The crew gained access to the Plant Habitat Facility and performed steps needed to replace the Carbon Dioxide (CO2) regulator orifice, adjust the manual CO2 pressure relief valve, exchange the CO2 bottle, and perform leak checks of the system. The CO2 system in Plant Habitat has shown off-nominal performance for the past few experiments and these activities will allow nominal CO2 control for future experiments. More information on this facility can be found here.
Sleep in Orbit: The crew set up the experiment hardware, and initiated an overnight science session. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) Disconnect: This morning, following a processing cycle, the UPA faulted. A Failure Investigation Team (FIT) was convened and recommended that the crew disconnect the Distillation Assembly (DA) Purge hose from the PCPA. This will allow the ground team to run the PCPA to determine if it has failed or if there is a ruptured air hose.  
Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval 2.5 Extra Vehicular Activity (EVA) Procedure Review: In preparation for the upcoming RFG Retrieval 2.5 EVA the crew performed a procedure review. This review was broken up in to two parts with the crew members who will be performing the EVA reviewing their procedure steps together, and the crew members who will be supporting the EVA from inside the ISS review their procedure steps together. This review ensures that each team understands their role, reducing the risk of mistakes and helping to ensure the safety of the crew and EVA success. The RFG Retrieval 2.5 EVA is the first of three EVAs that will be performed in June.
EVA Equipment Lock Preparation Part 1: In preparation for their On-Orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV), the crew prepared the equipment lock and their EVA Mobility Unit (EMU). This activity consisted of deploying EMU tools and hardware from the equipment lock followed by configuring the EMU for use. This activity, along with the upcoming OFV, ensures the EMU is configured to maximize crew efficiency and safety during the EVA.
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. After the crew was complete with their analysis they replaced the TOCA Waste Water Bag (WWB).
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the UPA Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
