ISS On-Orbit Status 05/21/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      Underway:  Week 4 of Increment 31 (six-person crew).   
 
After wakeup, CDR Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
FE-1 Padalka conducted the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM of a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
Kononenko, Padalka &amp; Revin completed the periodic pre-breakfast session of the Russian biomedical routine assessment PZEh-MO-7/Calf Volume Measurement.  Afterwards, Oleg, Gennady &amp; Sergei were joined by Acaba, Kuipers &amp; Pettit in completing the PZEh-MO-8/Body Mass Measurement using the IMT mass measurement device, set up (and later cleaned up and stowed away) by Kononenko.        [For determining body mass in zero-G, where things are weightless but not massless, the Russian IMT "scales" for MO-8 measure the inertial forces that arise during the oscillatory motion of a mass driven by two helical metering springs with known spring constants.  By measuring the time period of each oscillation of the unknown mass (the crewmember) and comparing it to the period of a known mass, the crewmember’s mass is calculated by the computer and displayed. MO-7 Calf measurements (left leg only) are taken with the IZOG device, a custom-sewn fabric cuff that fits over the calf, using the knee and lower foot as fixed reference pints, to provide a rough index of deconditioning in zero-G and effectiveness of countermeasures. ]
 
FE-6 Pettit took care of the approximately weekly WRS (Water Recovery System) sampling using the TOCA (Total Organic Carbon Analyzer), after first initializing the software and priming (filling) the TOCA water sample hose.      [After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to an SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]
 
Afterwards, Don transferred the Ethernet repair kit from its FGB stowage to Node-1, then had about an hour modifying the common Ethernet cable of the MARES (Muscle Atrophy Research &amp; Exercise System) payload on the RJ-45 connector side.     [Documentary photography of the MARES setup had been taken by FE-5 Kuipers on 3/5 for ground review.] 
 
FE-3 Acaba began his first Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment, assisted by André Kuipers as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) in preparing the Actiwatches, electrode sites, attaching the harness and donning the Cardiopres.  Before sleeptime, Joe will swap Makita batteries and initiate the charging of the next power tool battery used for the Cardiopres.          [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist &amp; ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Joe started the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
CDR Kononenko, assisted by FE-3 Revin for handover, transferred a set of the RBO-3-2 Matryoshka-M hardware from MRM-1 Rassvet and installed the spherical FANTOM complex with its radiation detectors in the JAXA Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), followed by situational photography.  Objective: To study the dynamics of radiation environment in the Kibo module and dose accumulation in the spherical “Phantom” to improve space radiation control methods.       [As usual during the initial period after arrival of a new crew, “old” and “new” crewmembers are sometimes scheduled in pairs on some service/maintenance tasks for “knowledge handover”, i.e., familiarization of the newcomer with procedures, equipment and requirements.]
 
As a second handover activity, Oleg &amp; Sergei performed the periodic (every Monday) verification of the automatic IUS AntiVirus definition update on the Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2, as well as performed the manual update on the non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.       [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the SSCV4 software update.  Before the installation (on 8/8) of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.  On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops.  Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
The three Russian crewmembers also had an hour scheduled on their timeline for joint operation
of other handover activities, 
 
Working in the JPM on the FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility), FE-5 Kuipers removed the experiment cover body and IR (Infrared) Imager, exchanged the FPEF Strobolamps, then re-installed the Imager and cover.
 
Afterwards, André worked on the JAXA GHF (Gradient Heating Furnace) in the Kobairo rack, setting up and calibrating the Scopemeter oscilloscope and then triggering start of Scopemeter CE (Control Equipment) voltage measurements.       [After the recent troubleshooting on the GHF CE, Don Pettit had inspected the Scopemeter instrument for proper functioning on 4/11.]
 
Later, André retrieved 30S-delivered ESA DOSIS (Dose Distribution Inside ISS) 3D hardware and installed its main box and passive detector packs in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory).       [The installation of the triple detector pack on the main box and passive detector packs was photo documented with digital camera.]
 
Sergei Revin undertook the regular monthly session, his first, of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on a review of all topics.  At the end, FE-2 completed a self-assessment questionnaire.  Answers were provided at test conclusion.       [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.]
 
CDR Kononenko deactivated the GA/gas analyzer in the Soyuz TMA-03M/29S (#703), docked at MRM1 Rassvet, while FE-1 Padalka did the same with the GA in “his” Soyuz TMA-04M/30S (#704) at the MRM2 Poisk.        [The GA’s are activated periodically to check the cabin air in the Descent Modules.]
 
Afterwards, Gennady dismantled the two "Klest" (KL-152) TV cameras and their SG2-14V light units in the SA/Descent Module of the 30S spacecraft for return to the ground for reuse, temporarily stowing them in the SM.
 
FE-6 Pettit set up an EDV-U urine container and transferred urine to the UPA (Urine Processor Assembly), filling it to ~70% for processing.
 
In the US Lab, Don later accessed the WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) interior volume and powered on the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) laptop so imaging activities can be resumed under ground control.      [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
Meanwhile in JPM, André Kuipers performed further troubleshooting on the IPU (Image Processing Unit) which Dan Burbank had found to possibly have a short circuit in its power supply unit and on which Don Pettit had started work on 5/18.       [Since the replacement of the unit is estimated to take ~12 hrs including rack rotation, Kuipers today first double-checked on the possible short by measuring resistance of the new power supply’s power line in order to make sure that it has no defects, and of the IPU's upstream power line in order to eliminate other possibilities of the cause of the trip.  Based the results of his measurements, IPU power supply R&amp;R will be scheduled in the near future.]
 
Padalka completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Gennady also took two photos of the internal part of the MRM2 docking port’s SSVP-StM docking cone to obtain digital imagery of the scratch or scuff mark left by the head of the Soyuz 30S active docking probe on the internal surface of the passive drogue (docking cone) ring, a standard practice after Russian dockings.  FE-1 subsequently downlinks the pictures via OCA assets.        [These images are used to refine current understanding of docking conditions.  The objective is to take photo imagery of the scratch or scuff marks left by the head of the docking probe on the internal surface of the drogue (docking cone, ASP) ring, now rotated out of the passageway.  Before shooting the picture, the cosmonaut highlights the scuffmark with a marker and writes the date next to it.  As other crewmembers before him, Anatoly used the Nikon D2X digital still camera to take the pictures with the hatch partially closed.]
 
Kononenko took care of the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Acaba completed his (currently) daily task of filling out his ESA SHD (Space Headache) questionnaire.        [He started this activity after his Soyuz launch and is continuing it on ISS (on an SSC/Station Support Computer), currently with daily logging in the first week, thereafter once weekly.  Neurologists from Leiden University are studying the question whether astronauts in space suffer from headaches.  With the help of a simple questionnaire, Joe registers the headache episodes and the eventual accompanying symptoms.  The results may help to characterize the frequency and characteristics of space headache and to develop countermeasure to prevent/minimize headache occurrence during the space flight.]
 
Kuipers serviced the VIABLE experiment (eValuatIon And monitoring of microBiofiLms insidE the ISS), touching and blowing the top of each of 4 VIABLE bags in the FGB (loc. 409) where they are stowed to collect environment samples.       [This investigation evaluates microbial biofilm development on space materials.  Objectives are to determine the microbial strain producing the anti-biofilm product, evaluate the chemical nature of the anti-biofilm product, study the innovative materials which are chemo-physically treated, and address the biological safety issues associated with microbial biofilms.  Background: Most surfaces are covered with microorganisms under natural conditions.  The process by which a complex community of microorganisms is established on a surface is known as biofilm formation.  Microbial biofilms can exist in many different forms by a wide range of microorganisms.  The process of biofilm formation is a prerequisite for substantial corrosion and/or deterioration of the underlying materials to take place.  VIABLE samples are composed by both metallic and textile space materials either conventional or innovative (Aluminum, Armaflex and Betacloth).  They are placed inside four foam lined Nomex bags, specifically:  Pouch 1 - untreated space materials; Pouch 2 - space materials pre-treated with biosurfactants; Pouch 3 - space materials pre-treated with hydrogen peroxide; Pouch 4 - space materials chemo-physically pre-treated with silica and silver coating.]
 
Padalka &amp; Revin had time set aside for unloading and transferring cargo from the Soyuz 30S spacecraft to the RS (Russian Segment) for stowage, Gennady for ~1 hr, Sergei for ~2 hrs.  US cargo was handed over to Acaba &amp; Pettit who stood by to transfer and stow it in the USOS (US Orbit Segment), Joe for ~1 hr, Don ~1h 55m.
 
The Soyuz 30S crewmembers Padalka, Revin &amp; Acaba had about an hour of free time for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization &amp; acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.
 
Don Pettit set up the equipment for the CSA (Canadian Space Agency) VASC/Vascular Blood Collection protocol scheduled for him tomorrow, assisted by André, his 2<sup>nd</sup> sampling.       [After the blood draw, samples will be spun in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) prior to stowing them in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS), after recording the blood tube bar codes.  Led by the Canadian University of Waterloo’s Dr. Richard Hughson, VASCULAR is studying the long-term effects of weightlessness on the cardiovascular system.  Previous medical tests have shown that astronauts who live and work in space for long periods of time experience changes in their blood vessels that are like the aging on Earth.  But in space these changes happen in months instead of years and decades.  The blood vessels become stiffer and lose their elasticity. This can change blood pressure and affect blood flow to vital organs such as the brain and kidney.  A number of international astronauts are taking part in VASCULAR, each staying about 6 months on the station.  Their blood samples are being returned to Dr. Hughson’s laboratory for measurements of unique protein and hormone markers that could accelerate vascular aging.  The results of VASCULAR will offer a better understanding of the inner mechanisms of cardiovascular changes during long-duration space missions.  The findings can also help people who suffer from premature cardiovascular aging right now back home on Earth.]
 
Don &amp; Joe each had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in their electronic Journals on the personal SSC.    [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Before Presleep, Pettit will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Don turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Before sleeptime, Oleg Kononenko &amp; Sergei Revin will prepare the Russian MBI-12 payload and start a session with the 5<sup>th</sup> Sonokard experiment, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.  It’s Oleg’s 7<sup>th</sup>, Sergei’s 1<sup>st</sup> session.       [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
FE-1, FE-2 &amp; FE-3 had their (currently) daily post-arrival PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Joe at ~10:30am, Sergei at ~2:10pm, Gennady at ~2:30pm EDT.  FE-5 &amp; FE-6 had their regular weekly PMCs, André at ~7:00am, Don at ~12:05pm.
 
Don Pettit performed a session of the Treadmill Kinematics program on the T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill, setting up the HD camcorder in Node-1, placing tape markers on his body, recording a calibration card in the FOV (Field of View) and then conducting the workout run within a specified speed range.  The video was to be downlinked by André via MPC.      [Purpose of the Kinematics T2 experiment is to collect quantitative data by motion capture from which to assess current exercise prescriptions for participating ISS crewmembers.  Detailed biomechanical analyses of locomotion will be used to determine if biomechanics differ between normal and microgravity environments and to determine how combinations of external loads and exercise speed influence joint loading during in-flight treadmill exercise.  Such biomechanical analyses will aid in understanding potential differences in gait motion and allow for model-based determination of joint &amp; muscle forces during exercise. The data will be used to characterize differences in specific bone and muscle loading during locomotion in the two gravitational conditions.  By understanding these mechanisms, appropriate exercise prescriptions can be developed that address deficiencies.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-1), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with load trainer (FE-2).        [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day. Today’s exercise called for ARED+T2 (Kinematics), with T2 (aerobic/interval), ARED+T2 (resistive+aerobic) and CEVIS (interval) following in the next 3 days.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.] 
 
After his T2 session, Don closed down the T2 software on its laptop for data transfer, then turned off the T2 display.     [After the display shutdown, the T2 rack is power cycled (turned off/on) from the ground, and T2 is then ready for use.  These power cycles allow for the T2 data to be transferred to the Server for downlink.] 
 
A single task listed for the Russian crewmembers on their discretionary “time permitting” job for today was for more preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb) (all).
 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

