
Payloads:
Environmental Health System (EHS) Exploration Potable Water Dispenser (xPWD): The crew collected a sample from the xPWD, then used the Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) to analyze the sample.  More information on this experiment can be found here. 
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (SCEM)/ Fundamental Research on International Standard of Fire Safety in Space (FLARE):  A new storage sample collection was assembled and igniters were exchanged and placed in the SCEM chamber. The cable hook-ups will be scheduled on a future date. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Zero Robotics-Astrobee: The crew positioned the Astrobee Free Flyer in the JEM and assisted the ground team in conducting multiple gesture-recognition software test runs. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Crew Quarters (CQ) VelociCalc Airflow Measurements: The crew performed airflow measurements in the Deck CQ. These measurements will allow the ground team to understand if the CQs ventilation system is providing sufficient airflow to prevent CO2 buildup.
Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows (WinSCAT) Test: The crew performed a monthly WinSCAT test. The test is a screen tool developed by NASA to monitor astronauts and their neuro-cognitive status while in space and alert NASA flight surgeons to any accuracy or reaction time changes in an astronaut’s performance. WinSCAT tests working memory, computational skills, attention, visual tracking, and spatial processing.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV Swap: Today, the crew swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS. The main objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from Toilet System and Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
NG-20 Cygnus Cargo Transfer Operations: Today, the crew performed cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-20 cargo vehicle. The crew is loading the cargo vehicle with items slated for disposal in preparation for its departure from station in July.
Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Rock Catcher Build: In preparation for Boeing CFT to arrive on station, which will see one USOS Crewmember temporarily sleep in the Crew-8 Crew Dragon while CFT is docked, the crew built a Rock Catcher. The purpose of the Rock Catcher is to sit over the IMV inlet leading to the Node 2 Zenith docking port, where the Crew-8 Crew Dragon is docked, and prevent any IMV obstructions. This will ensure proper airflow reaches the Crew Dragon, preventing the buildup of CO2.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) 3013 Helmet Troubleshooting: The crew performed troubleshooting and data gathering on EMU 3013 to determine the cause of interference during helmet installation that is preventing the helmet from locking. The crew made adjustments to an EMU cable bundle located at the back of the helmet which allowed them to lock the helmet in place. Considerable force was still required to lock the helmet into place, and the ground team agreed that there was still forward work to reduce the locking effort in preparation for the upcoming USOS EVAs in June.
