
SpaceX Demo-2 Launch Delay: SpaceX and NASA scrubbed the launch today due to weather. The next launch attempt is scheduled for 2:22pm CT on Saturday, May 30th from Launch Complex 39A at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center.
Payloads
The ISS Experience: The crew performed the Z-camera setup in Node 2 in order to capture footage of the upcoming Dragon Crew Demo-2 Hatch opening. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor: The crew removed the protective Plug from the Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) inlet in preparation for Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor operations. The Spacecraft Atmosphere Monitor investigation demonstrates the capabilities of a small, reliable, portable gas chromatograph mass spectrometer instrument aboard the International Space Station (ISS) to conduct major and minor elements of air measurement. The instrument transmits data back to the ground research team every two seconds, providing a continuous analysis to the ground research team.
Systems 
Columbus Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) Transfer: As the initial steps in the choreography sequence to transfer newly arrived racks from HTV9, the crew transferred the Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) from Columbus to a temporary location in Node 1. Prior to the transfer, the crew prepared the rack by removing stowage from Columbus Overhead 2 (COL1O2) and then collapsing the ZSR. Stowage removed from the ZSR was placed into the empty COL1O2 Rack Bay. The ZSR will eventually be transferred to a permanent location in the PMM. into HTV9 for disposal
Crew Dragon Preparation for Arrival: Today the crew performed several activities in preparation for the arrival of the Crew Dragon vehicle. The crew performed an audit of a docking kit and gathered missing items for the kit. The crew also relocated and reconfigured a laptop (SSC) for use during Demo approach and docking. Finally, the crew setup and checked out crew monitoring tools required for US Visiting Vehicles, including vehicle-specific and Rendezvous and Proximity Operations Program (RPOP) software.

