
Orbital ATK (OA)-9 Cygnus S.S. J.R. Thomson Rendezvous with ISS:  The crew successfully captured the S.S. J.R. Thompson with the Space Station Remote Manipulation System (SSRMS) at 4:29 am CDT. Once captured, the crew handed off control of the SSRMS to ground robotics controllers who maneuvered the Cygnus vehicle to the Node 1 nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) interface where it was securely bolted to the ISS. Once the CBM bolting operations were complete, the crew and ground teams worked together to perform Node 1 CBM vestibule pressurization followed by hatch opening and ingress at ~12:05 PM CT. 
Tropical Cyclone: The crew configured the camera settings in the Cupola to support the capture of untended images of Cyclone Mekunu, which is expected to make landfall on the Aragian Peninsula tomorrow.  The Tropical Cyclone investigation is normally used to capture images of tropical cyclones and hurricanes that are rated at Category 3 or greater on the Saffir-Simpson scale. A pseudo-stereoscopic method is used to determine the altitudes of the cloud tops near the center (eye) of a cyclone by precisely tracking the apparent positions of cloud features with respect to the Earth and how those positions change over time as an observer (the ISS in this case) passes over the storm. The photographic images will be used to demonstrate that pseudo-spectroscopy can be used to measure the cloud altitudes to sufficient precision so that, when combined with other remote-sensing data, an accurate determination of the intensity of hurricane or cyclone can be made. 
Human Research Program (Biochemical Profile, Marrow, Vascular Echo, and Repository):  A 53S crewmember collected blood samples for their Return minus 14-day session of the Biochem Profile, Marrow and Repository investigations this morning.  He also completed a 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring session.  Blood samples are being processed in the new non-refrigerated centrifuge due to the issues experienced yesterday with the refrigerated centrifuge. 

The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
Vascular Echo examines changes in blood vessels and the heart while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health, and quality of life for everyone.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. The repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. 


