
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #46: Today CDR Oleg Kononenko and FE-4 Aleksey Ovchinin exited the Docking Compartment (DC)-1 airlock and completed the following tasks during today’s successful 06 hour 01 minute EVA:

Installation of MRM2-FGB Handrail
Removal of sensor mock-ups from MRM HR6005
Removal of TEST exposure units #15 & #16 installed on MRM2
Cleaning of the MRM2 EV Hatch 2 Window Pane
Removal of VINOSLIVOST panels #1 and #2 installed on MRM2
Redirection of БКДО on MRM2
Taking samples near SM [CMB]-15 and [CMB]-39 valves
Dismantling and jettison of OBSTANOVKA SE (PVK-1 and PVK-2) measurement units

Bio-Monitor: A crewmember doffed and stowed the BioMonitor hardware. Although the ISS is equipped with health and life sciences research tools, the existing instrumentation for continuous and simultaneous recording of several physiological parameters is lacking. To tackle this issue, the Bio-Monitor Commissioning activity tests the Bio-Monitor facility; a wearable garment capable of monitoring relevant physiological parameters for up to 48 hours in a non-invasive and non-interfering way. The physiological parameters which can be monitored consist of heart rate, respiration rate, Electrocardiogram, skin temperature, peripheral blood oxygen saturation, etc.
Multi-use Variable-g Platform (MVP): The crew used the Portable Glovebox to remove the chamber and tube coil from the six experiment modules and prepped them for return on SpX-17. The commercially developed, owned and operated Techshot Multi-use Variable-g Platform (MVP) includes 2 internal carousels that simultaneously can produce up to 2 g of artificial gravity. MVP is used to conduct research in space with a wide variety of sample types, such as fruit flies, flatworms, plants, fish, cells, protein crystals and many others.
Furphy: The crew performed Rigid to Flexible Tank transfers and spin tests for varying volumes of water. Furphy tests the feasibility of transferring fluids in microgravity from a rigid tank to a flexible tank that launches collapsed and deploys as it is filled. By making it possible to fuel small satellites in orbit instead of prior to launch, potentially saving launch mass and volume, this capability supports future space exploration. This first microgravity test is performed aboard the ISS to verify tank dynamics including slosh and retention of angular momentum.
Water Storage System (WSS) Assembly: After Monday and Tuesday’s successful power cable routing activities, the crew continued with WSS assembly today and installed shelf panels, ground straps, and rack internal power/data cables after rotating the Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) shell at the LAB1D4 location. Since this activity took longer than expected, several tasks were deferred and will be completed at a later date. Once assembly is complete, WSS will add new capabilities to the existing Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Water Recovery and Management System (WRM) by providing additional iodinated water storage, approximately 75 liters, and new methods of transporting water in the potable water bus.
Robotics On-board Trainer (RoBOT): Today the crew completed nominally scheduled proficiency training needed to maintain Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) qualifications. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with using SSRMS hand controllers with graphical feedback.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pretreat Dose Pump Remove and Replace (R&R): The currently installed Dose Pump has been installed on ISS for roughly one and a half years; since the expected operational life is only six months, the crew pre-emptively R&Rd this pump this afternoon with an on-orbit spare. This pump is critical part of the WHC as it injects the pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.

