
The ISS Experience: The crew set up the ISS Experience Hardware in the LAB to record today’s Waste Storage System (WSS) cable routing activity. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. It uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
MicroAlgae: The crew provided photography of the four culture bags and installed the bags with light data logger into the Veggie facility. Microalgae Biosynthesis in Microgravity (MicroAlgae) studies the effects of microgravity on Haematococcus pluvialis, a tiny freshwater algae capable of producing a powerful antioxidant known as astaxanthin. It could provide a readily available dietary supplement to promote astronaut health on long-duration space exploration missions. This research was proposed by a community college student and alumna of the NASA Community College Aerospace Scholars (NCAS) program. 
NanoRacks Platforms: The crew removed Module-78 from Platform-1. NanoRacks Platforms is a multipurpose research facility on board the ISS. NanoRacks Platforms supports NanoRacks Modules in the CubeSat form factor by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity.
Rodent Research-12 (RR-12): The crew stowed Habitat 1 for return on SpX-17. RR-12, Tetanus Antibody Response by B cells in Space (TARBIS), examines the effects of spaceflight on the function of antibody production and immune memory. Spaceflight is known to have a dramatic influence on immune response, but there is little research on its effect following an actual challenge to the body’s immune system. Using a mouse model makes this possible, as the mouse immune system closely parallels that of humans.
Sextant Navigation for Exploration Missions (Sextant Navigation): The crew performed Sextant Navigation lunar sightings. The investigation focuses on stability and star sighting opportunities in microgravity. Astronauts on board the ISS tests a hand-held sextant that is intended for use on future Orion exploration missions. The results from this investigation can aid in the development of emergency navigation methods for future manned spacecraft.
Water Storage System (WSS) Preparations: The crew rotated the Life Support Rack (LSR) to begin  routing portions of the power cable needed to support WSS assembly activities on Wednesday. The WSS will add new capabilities to the existing Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Water Recovery and Management System (WRM) by providing additional iodinated water storage, approximately 75 liters, and new methods of transporting water in the potable water bus.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today Robotics Ground Controllers translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Work Site (WS)7 to WS6 before stowing the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on Mobile Bus System (MBS)2.  Later this afternoon, they will walk off the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) in preparation for SpaceX-17 release planned on June 3. 
SpaceX-17 Dragon Cargo Operations: Over the weekend, the crew completed approximately five hours of cargo transfer operations in preparation for return. Ground experts estimate sixteen hours remain before the vehicle is completely loaded.

