
New Status: 
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS): Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy executed the eleventh of thirteen sessions planned for this experiment.  BASS examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity and will guide strategies for extinguishing fires in microgravity. BASS results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) Gaseous Nitrogen (GN2) Line Leak Check: FE-6 Nyberg connected a GN2 flexible hose between the chamber and Work Volume, applied pressure to the MSPR and Combustion Chamber GN2 line then disconnect the GN2 Supply Umbilical to start a pressure check.  After 5 hours the crew checked the pressure, then disconnected the GN2 flexible hose and connect GN2 Supply Umbilical. The Waste Gas (WG) flexible hose was connected between the chamber and Work Volume in preparation for additional leak checks next week.

Russian Treadmill (БД-2) ISS Wireless Instrumentation System (IWIS) Data Collect: FE-5 Parmitano configured the remote IWIS sensor to collect structural loads and dynamics data while FE-2 Misurkin exercises on the БД-2, the new Russian Treadmill installed last week.  Following the exercise session, Parmitano relocated the roving IWIS sensor to its nominal Node 2 location.
Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect Against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery (Pro-K) Experiment: Cassidy began his third of five in-flight sessions of Pro-K, consuming a special diet, delivered on 35 Soyuz.  Over the first few days, Cassidy will log the food that he consumes, and perform urine and blood collections for return.  Pro-K looks at linkage between the ratio of animal protein and potassium and potential bone loss.

35 Soyuz (35S) Crew Adaptation: Yurchikhin, Parmitano and Nyberg had a reduced work day to better assist them in their acclimation to life onboard the ISS. They did, however, participate in crew handover activities.


