
Payloads:
Cardiobreath: The crew reviewed the Big Picture Words (BPW) to prepare for the science session starting Friday. Cardiobreath looks at biological feedback loops to gain insight into how microgravity affects astronauts’ cardiovascular and respiratory systems. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Gambit: The Nanoracks Airlock (NRAL) External Payload Environment Monitor, otherwise known as Gambit, was robotically relocated from location C to E. Gambit will eventually be installed at each of six external NRAL sites to characterize the environments for future payloads. More information on Gambit can be found here.
Lumina: The crew power-cycled the Lumina hardware, and transferred the science data to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for subsequent downlink. Lumina uses optical fibers which darken on exposure to radiation. More information on the Lumina fiber dosimeter experiment can be found here.
Sleep In Orbit: The crew closed out the current science session and prepared for the next session. These sessions occur over night during the crew’s sleep, and use electroencephalography (EEG) to study electrical signals in the brain. More information on the Sleep in Orbit experiment can be found here.
Space Test Program – Houston 5 (STP-H5): The STP-H5 external experiment host will be robotically transferred to NG-20 tonight to prepare for later disposal. STP-H5 was launched on SpX-10 and has gathered science with its 13 experiments for several years following its installation and checkout.
Transparent Alloys: The crew exchanged the sample cartridge in the Transparent Alloys experiment system. Transparent Alloys is mounted in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and is currently hosting the Columnar-to-Equiaxed Transition in Solidification Processing-2 (CETSOL-2) series of experiments. More CETSOL-2 information can be found here.
Systems:
Boeing Crewed Flight Test (CFT) Arrival Preparation Activities: Today, the crew completed activities in preparation for the arrival of Boeing CFT. These activities included the staging of emergency equipment for the crew arriving on CFT and updating the Systems Operation Data File (SODF) to include updated emergency procedures for CST-100.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) On-Orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV): In preparation for the upcoming EVAs in June, the crew performed a fitcheck of one of the crews EMUs. This fitcheck included donning the suit, pressurizing the suit, attaching all of the hardware and tools the crewmember will need to complete the EVA, and answering a survey communicating how well the crew can move and access their tools to the EVA ground team. During the fitcheck the crew reported an area of discomfort, referred to as a hotspot, which will require some additional crew time to fix prior to the EVAs.
EVA Suit Intravehicular (IV) Review: In preparation for the upcoming EVAs, the crew that will be supporting the EVAs from inside the ISS completed a review of EVA systems. This provided them with a reference for reminders, emergency briefing, helpful tips, and procedures that will be used during EVA preparation.
EVA Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) Battery Install: The crew installed batteries into two SAFER units. In the event that a crewmember floats free of the ISS without a tether, the SAFER provides a way for the crewmember to return to the ISS.
Node 1 Hatch Seal Inspection: The crew performed an inspection of the Node 1 Aft Hatch Seals. The objective of this was to clean and inspect the hatch seals and the Hatch Plate Sealing Surface. Due to timeline constraints the inspection of the Node 1 Forward, Starboard, and Port hatches were deferred to another day.
