
Fluid Shifts: The crew performed eye examinations using the Fundoscope in support of the Fluid Shifts study. Fluid Shifts is a NASA investigation, divided into Dilution Measurements, Baseline Imaging, and Imaging with Chibis. The Chibis hardware is used to perform the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) part of the experiment. The Fluid Shifts experiment investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes.  Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a LBNP device is being evaluated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and prevention of eye damage. 
Furphy (Residual Momentum and Tank Dynamics in Microgravity Environment): The crew completed Furphy spin tests with the Rigid and Flex tanks. Furphy tests the feasibility of transferring fluids in microgravity from a rigid tank to a flexible tank that launches collapsed and deploys as it is filled. By making it possible to fuel small satellites in orbit instead of prior to launch, potentially saving launch mass and volume, this capability supports future space exploration. This first microgravity test is performed aboard the space station to verify tank dynamics including slosh and retention of angular momentum. 
Life Sciences Glovebox (LSG): The crew performed the final cleanup of the LSG and installed the filter adapter and filters. The LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crewmembers can work in the LSG simultaneously
CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack): The crew replaced the CIR ACME (Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments) controller and replaced the manifold-2 O2 and N2 bottles. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion experiments in microgravity. 
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems (STaARS-1): The crew removed all eight Experiment controllers for return on SpX-17. The return of the Controllers will allow ground teams to make Facility configuration file modifications and perform necessary testing before return manifest. The objective of the STaARS-1 experiment facility is to support biotechnology and life science investigations to characterize the effects of microgravity on living systems. The facility aims to facilitate advanced studies targeting the molecular responses to microgravity that alter cell physiology and lead to unique cellular processes and the production of novel compounds that can impact pharmaceutical, tissue engineering, regenerative medicine, biofuel, and discovery sciences.
Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) #2: Robotic specialists in Tsukuba used the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) with the Small Fine Arm (SFA) to transfer the Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP) from the JEM Airlock Slide Table to the JEM Exposed Facility handrail. Taking advantage of Kibo’s unique function of having both an airlock and a robotic arm among modules on the ISS, the ExHAM facility enables space experiments to be performed in the exposed space environment, by attachment to the Japanese Experiment Module Kibo’s Exposed Facility (EF).
Commercial Orbital Transport Services (COTS) UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Checkout:  In preparation for the upcoming departure of SpaceX-17 planned on 3 June, the crew coordinated with ground teams to activate the CUCU system and perform a Crew Command Panel (CCP) checkout. CUCU provides a command and telemetry communications link between ISS and Dragon during free flight operations near ISS.     
Russian ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) 46 US Tool Stow: After Wednesday’s successful EVA, the US crew stowed various EVA hardware borrowed by Russia. In addition to conducting an audit of the returned hardware, the crew inspected each piece of equipment and verified they remain in a good configuration for use in future US EVAs.  
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Live Event: David Saint-Jacques participated in a live PAO event with 140 students and 60 community residents in Umiujaq, Northern Quebec where he practiced medicine before becoming an Astronaut.  During today’s event, students asked questions about how to live in space and the current mission of the ISS and its role in advancing science.  
SpaceX-17 Cargo Operations: Today the crew completed approximately 4 hours of SpaceX cargo loading in support of unberth on 3 June. The approximately 8 hours of remaining operations will be completed on Sunday in conjunction with loading of the Center Stack, and transfer of late-load items, into Dragon. In total, the crew will have spent 64 hours loading Dragon with the cargo and hardware needed for return. 

