
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer #8 (NRCSD#8) Deployment Operations: NRCSD#8 was transferred to the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) and 1 of 8 Silos was successfully deployed this morning via ground commanding. Additional deploys are planned for tonight at 7:45 PM and 11:00 PM CDT. Today is the first of three consecutive days of deployment operations for NRCSD#8. The Silos contain two CubeSats for a total of 16 Doves. The Dove satellites are a fleet of nanosatellites that enables imagery of the entire changing planet to be taken on a frequent basis, with humanitarian and environmental applications ranging from monitoring deforestation and the ice caps to disaster relief and improving agriculture yields in developing nations. The NRCSD is a commercially operated small satellite deployer from the ISS, maximizing full capabilities of each airlock cycle [of deployments. The MPEP/NRCSD is put into position to be grasped by the robotic arm which then places the CubeSat deployer into the correct position to release the miniature satellites into proper orbit.
 
Vascular Echo Leg Doppler Operations: The crew continued Vascular Echo operations that began last week by setting up the Exercise Doppler Ultrasound protocol using the Cardiolab Portable Doppler (CDL PDOP), donning the PDOP femoral probe, and performing a 1-minute exercise followed by a resting period during which data is collected. The 1-minute exercise and data collection was performed a second time before the crew deactivated and stowed the hardware. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation examines changes in blood vessels and heart while crew members are in space, then follows their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health, and quality of life for everyone.
 
Auxin Transport Run #3: Following last week’s completion of the second experiment run, today the crew conducted the first day of the third Auxin Transport experiment run by retrieving the samples from the Minus Eighty Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) before preparing and installing the samples into the Cell Biology Experiment Unit (CBEF) for incubation. The incubation process takes 3 days and will be followed by fixation, sampling and closeout activities on day 4. The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Auxin Transport investigation objective is to clarify the role of auxins in pea and corn seedlings grown in microgravity, leading to new insight into how gravity, or the lack of gravity, affects plant development. The data obtained from the second experiment run will provide evidence of spaceflight alterations in auxin polar transport and endogenous levels of auxin, resulting in automorphogenesis.
 
Biological Rhythms 48 Armband Activity Monitor Setup: In preparation for upcoming Biological Rhythms activities this week, the crew set up of the Armband monitor using the European Physiology Modules (EPM) Laptop. The objective of this investigation is to examine the circadian variation of an astronaut’s cardiac autonomic function during space flight using a digital electrocardiograph “Digital Walk Holter ECG”.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the International Space Station. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much volume crew members need.
 
External Wireless Communication (EWC) System Installation: The crew derouted the existing External Wireless Instrumentation System (EWIS) wire harness in the Lab. They then installed a new coaxial cable that restores current functionality and permits installation of 2 Wireless Access Points (WAPs) at the Lab Forward. The WAPs connect to the Joint Station Local Area Network (JSL) and external antennas already installed on the outside of the Lab.
 
Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM): Over the weekend, the crew and ground teams successfully inflated and pressurized BEAM. Manual inflation was completed with 67” of axial displacement and a full diameter of 127”, and full pressurization followed shortly thereafter. IMV/vestibule reconfiguration will begin Wednesday with ingress planned for Monday, June 6.
 
USOS Stowage Consolidation: In preparation for upcoming visiting vehicles, the crew started moving bags and hardware off PMM rack fronts, relocating SpX-9 return items to Node 2 (N2) Endcone and stowing future crew provisions bags in the crew provisions rack.
 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday, Robotics Ground Controllers manuevered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to pick up the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and prepare for the Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) P1_2B_A Remove & Replace scheduled to start tomorrow.
 

