ISS On-Orbit Status 05/30/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. Saturday – first full day for six-member Expedition 20, with the crew of CDR Gennady Padalka (Russia), FE-1 Michael Barratt (USA), FE-2 Koichi Wakata (Japan), FE-3 Roman Romanenko (Russia), FE-4 Robert Thirsk (Canada), FE-5 Frank DeWinne (Belgium).
 
  The FE-2 continued his third session of sleep logging for the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight) from his Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, Koichi wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as his patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and uses the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  Padalka &amp; Romanenko performed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System by starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #1 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated tonight at ~3:30pm EDT before crew sleep, followed tomorrow by Bed #2 regeneration.  (Last time done: 5/10-5/11).     [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods.  The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days.]
 
  The full crew performed the regular weekly task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the FE's sleep station with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  As part of the house cleaning, the CDR &amp; FE-3 conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9), plus dust filter replacement in the FGB.
 
  Romanenko also performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, while Padalka did the periodic maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems in the SM &amp; FGB by cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting the POTOK in automatic mode. [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  Continuing preparations in the DC1 (Docking Compartment) for the Orlan suited dry-run on 6/3 (Wednesday) and the EVA-22 spacewalk on 6/5 (Friday), CDR Padalka &amp; FE-1 Barratt checked out the Orlan “Korona” communication links, which include VHF/voice and biomedical electrode belt and telemetry hookups via the BSS interface units (to be switched after egress to the Tranzit-B wireless in-suit radio telemetry system). [The tests of the VHF/voice &amp; biomedical electrode belt and telemetry hookups for vital signs and equipment monitoring involved a ground specialist tagup over RGS (Russian Groundsite) via VHF at 3:55-4:15am EDT.]
 
  Afterwards, as part of the regular physical fitness check prior to an Orlan spacewalk, Gennady &amp; Mike undertook the Russian MO-5 MedOps protocol of cardiovascular assessment during graded physical load on the VELO cycle ergometer, assisting each other in turn as CMO (Crew Medical Officer).     [The assessment uses the Gamma-1 ECG equipment with biomed harness, skin electrodes and a blood pressure and rheoplethysmograph cuff wired to the cycle ergometer's instrumentation panels.  Measurements were telemetered down via VHF to RGS (Russian Groundsite) during two comm windows (3:55am &amp; 6:45am).  For the graded-load exercise, the subject works the pedals after a prescribed program at load settings of 125, 150, and 175 watts for three minutes each.  Data output involves a kinetocardiogram, rheoplethysmogram, rheoencephalogram and a temporal pulsogram.]
 
  Floating in the Habitation Module of the newly arrived Soyuz TMA-15/19S spacecraft, Roman installed the LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251M1B) of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry system and its ROM/read-only memory unit (PZU TA765B), both kept in storage from an earlier Soyuz.
 
  Padalka performed the frequent status check on the Russian BIO-5 Rasteniya-2 ("Plants-2") experiment, verifying proper operation of the BU Control Unit and MIS-LADA Module fans (testing their air flow by hand) plus today, as a discretionary task list item, monitoring seedling growth, humidity measurements, moistening of the substrate if necessary and topping off the water tank if ~20-25% of the total amount (4 liters) remains.   [Rasteniya-2 researches growth and development of plants under spaceflight conditions in the LADA-15 greenhouse from IBMP (Institute of Bio-Medical Problems, Russian: IMBP).]
 
  The full crew completed the formal 2-hr Safety Briefing, reviewing in detail procedures and escape routes in case of an emergency.   [The Safety Handover included safety-related items such as emergency actions (egress path to the two Soyuz vehicles, procedures, annunciations, isolation equipment, safety equipment, depressurization and leak repair, fire, toxic release), visiting vehicles docking/undocking, evacuation vehicles, crew life support system status, computers, communications, medical equipment, IVA hazards (e.g., sharp edges, protrusions, touch temperatures), stowage, and current hardware status.]
 
  At ~9:00am EDT, the crew conducted the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  After Wakata again set up video coverage of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization) worksite, the CDR continued troubleshooting the critical exercise device, first deactivating the three remaining TVIS stabilizers, then conducting another exercise run on the treadmill, using an alternate method (see Note below). Koichi later downlinked the video &amp; audio for ground inspection.
 
  Roman &amp; Frank each had 15 min set aside for familiarizing themselves with the physical exercise procedures onboard and particularly the current usage of the TVIS.
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program (about half of which is used for setup &amp; post-exercise personal hygiene) on the TVIS (CDR), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE2) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-1, FE-2). [On the CEVIS, the actual loads remain slightly lower than the commanded loads, but this was expected. A manual correction of the pertinent calibration coefficient via the control panel touch screen will be done at a later time when the new value has been determined.] 
 
  Later, Wakata transferred the exercise data file to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
  The three newcomers had another PMC (Private Medical Conference) via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, their second, Frank DeWinne at ~7:40am, Roman Romanenko at ~2:00pm, Bob Thirsk at ~2:50pm EDT.
 
  A new addition on Mike Barratt’s voluntary “job jar” task list was some more troubleshooting of the AgCam (Agricultural Camera) system, after his successful fix of AgCam laptop issues on 5/23 during his VolSci (Voluntary Science) activity.[When attempting to take the first image earlier this week, another anomaly, unrelated to the first one, became apparent, involving use of cables and components. For this weekend, Mike’s voluntary task (changing to a backup cable and data card plus re-seating several other cables) was to enable AgCam to complete science prior to window shutter closing on 6/9 (will remain closed until 2J/A departure).]
 
  On Gennady’s “time permitting” discretionary task list, another session of the GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program called for NIKON D2X digital camera photography (with 800mm telelens) of high priority targets such as fires on the Volga-Akhtyubinsk alluvial plain and in the Volga river delta, floods in the Volga-Akhtyubinsk alluvial plain and Volga river delta, Krasnaya Polyana and its mountain ski resort, the Laganaki plateau, etc.
 
 TVIS Update: The TVIS treadmill continues to be evaluated and is not cleared yet for normal usage. When Koichi Wakata yesterday conducted the TVIS exercise checkout session with stabilizers in the passive mode, they unexpectedly became active at a gyroscope speed of about 2000 rpm, causing again the anomalous overdriving oscillations. When returning to ~1800 rpm and below, the stabilizers switched back to passive mode. Ground analysis continues, and until this phenomenon is explained and the problem is resolved, an uplinked alternate method for running on the TVIS with stabilizers disabled was used by Gennady today. 
 
 FPMU SDTO Activities: Yesterday, ground controllers began an extended SDTO (Station Demonstration Test Objective) with the FMPU (Floating Potential Measurement Unit) to evaluate ISS vehicle charging with this system. [The final test associated with this SDTO, it will provide a complete picture of solar array-driven plasma charging of ISS for the entire complement of ISS SAs (solar arrays) and also address the effectiveness of ISS plasma shock hazard mitigation techniques. SAs are being positioned in order to generate sufficient charges of high potential; the arrays are vertical (90 deg) and BGAs (Beta Gimbal Assemblies) are positioned in forward (“ram“) or rearward (“wake”)-facing directions. Both Russian &amp; European Langmuir probes have been activated in support of the test. The JEM PROX system is also activated during this SDTO to evaluate the performance of the RGPS (Relative Global Positioning System) and verification of the multi-path environment, both of which are critical to HTV (H-II Transfer Vehicle) success. The SDTO will continue until 6/5 (EVA-22). Due to high momentum at the beginning of the FPMU testing, with SARJs (Solar Alpha Rotary Joints) in directed position of 90 deg, desaturation firings by Russian thrusters have been enabled (last time done: 2004) to desaturate the U.S. CMGs (Control Moment Gyroscopes) as required.]
  
 Onboard Water Balance: With the crew doubled in size, work is underway to re-assess the onboard water situation and establish a new balance for the USOS (US Segment) with its WRS (Water Recovery System), which now has more water going in and more coming out. [To provide empirical data for re-determining the balance, Mike, Koichi, Frank &amp; Bob were asked to maximize use of the water from the WRS for now.]
 
 
