
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA):  Today the crew deactivated SUBSA, exchanged sample ampoules, and started SUBSA processing of the new sample.  The objective of the SUBSA investigation is to advance understanding of the processes involved in semiconductor crystal growth. It offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C. Samples are contained in transparent quartz or ceramic ampoules with high definition video imaging available in real-time along with remote commanding of thermal control parameters. 
Cold Atom Lab (CAL):  The crew installed the CAL Science Instrument and Power Electronics (SIPE) into Express Rack 7, connected the SIPE to the Moderate Temperature Loop, and completed configuration of the SIPE for operations today.  The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time. CAL was activated from the ground and the CAL team is now starting a 6 week checkout of the payload. 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Camera Robot:  The crew completed checkout of the JEM Camera Robot today in the JEM using varying light levels and a target marker on the JEM Airlock. The JEM Camera Robot is a free-flying camera robot that provides real time video downlink and photographs. It is expected to reduce the crew time requirements to support video recording of activities, especially in the blind spots of existing JEM internal cameras.  
Lighting Effects: The crew obtained light meter readings in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) today.  The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. 
Correction:  The entry in yesterday’s IMC Daily Summary misstated return/trashing of EMCS components in SpX-15 and OA-9.  The correct entry is:  European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS):  The crew removed ESA’s EMCS from EXPRESS Rack 3 today and de-assembled the hardware. The EMCS Holding Structure will be trashed with the Cygnus vehicle and other EMCS parts will be returned in the SpaceX-15 vehicle. 
External TV Camera Group (ETVCG) Video Camera Luminaire (VCL) Bulb R&R: Today the crew replaced the primary metal halide light bulb in the ETVCG light that is scheduled to be taken outside and installed during next week’s US EVA. Following the bulb change, crew utilized a newly flown VCL test cable to perform a functional test of the assembly; both the new bulb and the backup bulb performed nominally during this checkout. 
Orbital ATK (OA)-9 Cargo Status: After completing 10 hours of cargo operations yesterday, and additional work today, the crew has completed a total of 34 hours of cargo operations since last Friday. Cargo specialist estimate approximately 1.0 hour of cargo operations remain to complete Cargo Message #1. Cargo Message #1 will unload the Cygnus vehicle and load about 1/3 of the trash scheduled for disposal on the vehicle.        

