
Human Research Program (HRP): A 49S crewmember collected Return minus 15 days (R-15) blood and urine samples for Vascular Echo, Biochem Profile, and Marrow investigations as well as air samples for Marrow and ultrasound measurements for Vascular Echo. 

The Vascular Echo investigation examines changes in blood vessels and the heart while crew members are in space, then follows their recovery when they return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmembers’ health.  A new, powerful, relatively easy to use ultrasound system will be used that could provide new opportunities for experimentation aboard the ISS.  In the field of telemedicine on Earth, such tele-operated scanners could result in progress in the medical management of persons in remote areas.
The Biochem Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during and after spaceflight.  Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results which scientists can use in their study of the effects of spaceflight on the body.
The Marrow investigation identifies the effect of microgravity on bone marrow.  It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on blood cell production in bone marrow.

Group Combustion Module (GCM):  The crew exchanged fuel supply syringes and reinstalled the Combustion Chamber back in MSPR Work Volume for continued GCM operations. The Group Combustion investigation tests combustion changes of fuel sprays as flames spread across a cloud of droplets. In the MSPR, fuels are arranged randomly on thin-fiber lattice points and the flame and droplet positions and temperature distribution are measured as the flame spreads.  Microgravity blocks convection, which on Earth would quickly disperse the droplets and combustion products before such measurements could be made. 
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) #12: The crew brought the JEM (Japanese Experiment Module) Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table (ST) into the JEM and remove the NRCSD #12 Quad Deployer from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP). This activity is in preparation for the installation of Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer #7 (J-SSOD #7) installation on the ST planned for June 16, 2017.
Veg-03: The crew completed the final harvest of leaves for crew consumption from Chinese Cabbage growing in the Veggie facility. They also placed VEG-03 plant samples, swabs, and water syringes into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return to the ground and cleaned the Veggie facility.  The goal of Veg-03 is to further demonstrate the proof of concept for the Veggie plant growth chamber and planting pillows. Future long-duration missions into the solar system will require a fresh food supply to supplement crew diets, which entails growing crops in space. Previous investigations focused on improving productivity in controlled environments but the limited quarters of the space shuttle and ISS made it difficult to conduct large-scale crop production tests. Veg-03 expands on previous validation tests of the Veggie hardware to grow cabbage, lettuce and other fresh vegetables. Tests determine which types of microorganisms are present in space-grown cabbage, providing baseline data for future crop-growing efforts. Behavioral health surveys assess the impact of growing plants on crew morale and mood.
On-Board Training (OBT) Health Maintenance System (HMS):  FE-2 performed refresher training for the HMS which is a subsystem of Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) that monitors crew health, responds to crew illness and/or injury, and provides preventive health care. These lessons provide a refresher course and cover some of the equipment and procedures that are taught in the Crew Medical Officer (CMO) classes.

