
Payloads:
Astrobee/Integrated System for Autonomous and Adaptive Caretaking-15 (ISAAC-15): The crew assisted with the Astrobee ISAAC mapping activities in the US Lab. These maps support vision-based navigation used by the Astrobee free-fliers. More information on ISAAC can be found here.
Cardiobreath: The crew performed a Cardiobreath science session using the Bio-Monitor wearable garment and Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS). Cardiobreath looks at biological feedback loops to gain insight into how microgravity affects astronauts’ cardiovascular and respiratory systems. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Sleep In Orbit: The crew closed out the current science session, restowed the hardware, and completed the experiment questionnaire. These sessions occur over night during the crew’s sleep, and use electroencephalography (EEG) to study electrical signals in the brain. More information on the Sleep in Orbit experiment can be found here.
Omics Archive: The crew collected biological samples in support of the Omics Archive investigation. This investigation collects various samples to support the study of molecular, metabolic, and microbial changes associated with long-duration spaceflight. More information on Omics Archive can be found here.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Hard Upper Torso (HUT) Remove and Replace (R&R): Following the EMU 3004 fan failure during a routine EMU loops scrub earlier this week, the crew installed a HUT on EMU 3013 to facilitate use during the upcoming EVAs in June. This will ensure that all scheduled crew combinations are still viable and all crew have backup EMUs for the upcoming EVAs.
EVA Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software Review: In preparation for the upcoming June EVAs, the crew utilized DOUG to review Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) operations that will be occurring in support of those EVAs. DOUG is a 3D graphic engine designed by the Virtual Reality Training Laboratory at JSC, and is used as a simulation and training tool on the ISS.
Ultrasound 2 Scan: Today, the crew performed eye exams using ultrasound equipment. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
JEM Camera Light Pan-Tilt Assembly (CLPA) Adapter Plate (JCAP) CLPA Installation: In preparation for next week’s Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) CLPA R&R, the crew installed the JCAP onto the JEM Airlock slide table followed by the CLPA. This R&R will be the first time that the SPDM performs maintenance on itself. 
