
Payloads:
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): The crew performed two BCM research sessions consisting of a set of 12 runs/tests each. The Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (BCM) experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive effects, behavioral conditions, or psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight. The studyevaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crew members to complete telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember who has spent months in weightlessness can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew gained access to the experiment chamber, collected any samples liberated from the sample holder, cleaned the sample holder and sample cartridge as needed, and closed out the ELF to prepare it for upcoming operations. ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt, and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Electromagnetic Levitator (EML): In support of ongoing operations, the EML high-speed camera was changed from recalibrate mode to standard mode. EML is a multi-user facility that provides containerless melting and solidification of electrically conductive, spherical samples under an ultra-high vacuum and/or high purity gas environments. Heating and positioning of the sample is achieved by electromagnetic fields generated by a coil system. The EML supports research in the field of meta-stable states and phases. EML also aids the study on measurement of highly accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys in the stable and undercooled state.
Human Research Facility-1 (HRF-1) Supply Inventory: Images were taken of the contents of HRF Supply Kit Purple and the HRF Supply Kit Green. These images will be used to plan for future resupply of the contents and disposal of expired items. HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
ISS Ham: The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with Old St. Mary’s School, Chicago, IL. Old St. Mary’s opened its doors to its first preschool class of 18 children in 2004. Today, they are proud to serve roughly 500 students in preschool through eighth grade. ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents, and members in the STEM community by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground Ham radio units.
Myotones: The crew performed skin marking on the designated experiment target areas, took measurements using the MyotonPRO device, and performed ultrasound scans of the target areas using the Echo device. Unfortunately, due to time constraints, some of the Echo scans will need to be re-planned for a later day. The Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones) investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g., muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth as well as for future space missions.
Phospho-aging Mechanism of Accelerated Aging Under Microgravity (Phospho-aging): Urine samples were collected and inserted into the Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for preservation. Phospho-aging examines the molecular mechanism behind aging-like symptoms, such as bone loss and muscle atrophy, that occur more rapidly in microgravity. Using analysis of human premature-aging syndromes (progeria) in mouse models, scientists identified CalciProtein Particles (CPPs) as a pro-aging factor in mammals. CPPs behave like a pathogen, inducing chronic inflammation and systemic tissue damage that could be the mechanism behind accelerated aging in space.
Systems:
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Catalytic Reactor Remove & Replace (R&R) Prep: Today, the crew performed several activities in preparation for the WPA Catalytic Reactor R&R tomorrow. First, the crew complete a big picture words review and gathered and charged Sidekick. Next, crew removed the Urine Transfer System (UTS) and T2 components to allow for access to rotate the Water Recovery System (WRS)-1 Rack. Finally, the crew installed the Active Rack Isolation System (ARIS) Pivot Fittings to the WRS Rack. WPA provides the capability to produce potable quality water from humidity condensate and reclaimed urine distillate.
Robotic Survey Operations: Today, robotics ground controllers completed a survey of the forward International Docking Adapter (IDA) using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to verify the IDA is in a good configuration to support the docking of the upcoming SpaceX-25 Cargo Dragon.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Maintenance: Today, the crew evacuated the ARED Cylinder Flywheel and vacuum Slider Track. They also tightened and torqued set screws within the ARED Cylinder Flywheel and Main Arm Fasteners.

