
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT) Docking: Boeing Starliner Calypso successfully hard-docked to the ISS on Thursday, June 6th, at 12:56 PM CDT. The ISS crew welcomed aboard NASA astronauts Barry “Butch” Wilmore and Suni Williams. The ISS crew complement has officially increased from seven to nine.
Payloads:
Immunity Assay (IA): The crew gathered and processed samples in support of the IA science session. The experiment looks at cellular immune functions using a functional immune test performed on-board ISS. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Iceberg-2: The crew gained access to the Iceberg refrigerator/freezer and exchanged the desiccant pack. Desiccants are used to control humidity levels inside the cold volume and are replaced as needed. More information on the Iceberg cold stowage facility can be found here.
ISS Ham Radio: The crew participated in a Ham Radio contact with Agrupamento de Escolas Dr. Serafim Leite in São João da Madeira, Portugal. Some of the questions asked by the students included how long astronauts need to train before going into space, how fast the ISS moves, and what the astronauts do in their free time. More information on ISS Ham can be found here.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the three upcoming EVAs in June. They completed an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap, EVA Battery Installation & Charge, EVA Tool Configuration, a Robotics Procedure Review, and a Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Airlock Fitcheck. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming RFG Retrieval Part 2.5 EVA, CP9 External High-Definition Camera (EHDC) Remove & Replace (R&R) EVA, and ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) 2A Preparation EVA.
ISS Safety Briefing: The full crew completed a safety briefing following the docking of Boeing CFT. The crew met together to review emergency response, potential hazards, and the locations of emergency equipment. A more detailed review of all emergency hardware will be held during the Emergency Hardware Familiarization activity.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Backup EDV Swap: Today, the crew changed out the backup EDV in the UTS. EDV are intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. The objective of the UTS is to provide automated control of urine flow from the Toilet System and Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) or from external storage containers into the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Wastewater Storage Tank Assembly (WSTA).
