
Defining the Relationship Between Biomarkers of Oxidative and Inflammatory Stress and the Risk for Atherosclerosis in Astronauts During and After Long-duration Spaceflight (Cardio Ox): Cristoforetti performed her Return – 15 day (R-15) Cardio Ox ultrasound, with Virts assisting as the on-orbit operator.  Following ultrasound scans of brachial and carotid arteries and of the heart, blood pressure readings via the Cardiolab (CDL) Holter Arterial Blood Pressure unit were taken.  Cardio Ox will determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight, and how those markers correlate with the long-term health changes in astronauts. This will help to define the cardiovascular health risks associated with long duration space flight and in developing countermeasures, as well as understanding crew health care needs in the years after their return to Earth.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections: Kelly and Cristoforetti performed saliva collections in support of Microbiome and Salivary Markers.  Kelly also collected samples in support of the 1-Year Mission Experiment Twins Study. 

The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
Salivary Markers samples measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays. This research study will help identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system. If any impairment in immunity is found due to spaceflight, this will allow the development of appropriate countermeasures to help mitigate the risks.
Twin Study is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple PI’s at multiple centers.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, one of whom experiences space travel for one year while the other is earth-bound.  The study looks at changes in the human body in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.

Rodent Research-2 Preparations: Cristoforetti completed a Bone Densitometer checkout in advance of Sunday’s final sample collection for the RR-2 experiment.  This research is to monitor the effects of the space environment on the musculoskeletal and neurological systems of mice as model organisms of human health and disease. Living in microgravity results in significant and rapid effects on the physiology of mice that mimic the process of aging and some diseases in humans on Earth, including muscle atrophy and the loss of bone mineral density.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3010 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Prep for Return: Following the successful Remove & Replace (R&R) of the failed FPS in EMU 3010 this week, today the crew packed the removed FPS for return on 41 Soyuz (41S). A Return To Service test for the suit is planned next week.
Robotics Operations: Today, the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into position to complete a survey the multi-layer insulation (MLI) on the ammonia lines.  They then maneuvered SSRMS in a survey of the Russian segment in order to support updates to the models used for robotic planning on the ground. 

