
Fluid Shifts:  Today was the final day for the Fluid Shift operations in the Russian Service Module (SM) for Flight Day (FD) 45 sessions.  Kornienko donned the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP/Chibis) device while Padalka, with ground support in Moscow, assisted in the medical monitoring.  While Kornienko was subjected to the negative pressure (pulling the fluid feetward), Kelly, with remote guidance in Houston, performed measurements with Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE), Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), and Tonometry measurements. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Fine Motor Skills: Kelly performed his FD 70 Fine Motor Skills sessions this morning.  Fine motor skills are crucial for successful interaction with touch-based technologies, repairing sensitive equipment, and a variety of other tasks. In Fine Motor Skills, crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. 
Wearable Monitoring: Cristoforetti doffed and downlinked hardware from the Wearable Monitoring Vest that she wore overnight. This was the final of six planned sessions.  Wearable Monitoring validates a new cloth vest that monitors astronaut heart rates and breathing patterns during sleep. It collects data to investigate whether changes in heart activity are related to astronauts’ poor sleep quality. Current technology cannot check astronauts’ heart activity while they sleep because the test wakes them. The Wearable Monitor is a lightweight vest with silver wires and sensors embedded into the fabric, making it more comfortable to wear.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3010 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove & Replace (R&R): Virts and Cristoforetti completed R&Ring the failed FPS in EMU 3010. Tomorrow they will pack the removed FPS for return on 41 Soyuz (41S). A return to service test for the suit is planned next week. 

