
New Status: 
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) Leak Check: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy successfully performed the final portion of the MSPR CC leak check today.  He conducted a positive pressure check, which was the third and final required leak check for the Combustion Chamber.  Last week he completed the a nitrogen gas supply line leak check, and on Wednesday he completed the CC leak check with negative pressure.  Cassidy stowed the chamber and the work bench on which these checks were performed.
Microbiome Experiment: Following completion of their respective questionnaires, Nyberg and FE-5 Parmitano collected today’s perspiration samples immediately after exercise and inserted them in cold stowage for return to ground.  They will repeat the collections tomorrow.   The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome, the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body. This will help predict how long-term space travel may impact the human microbiome and health.
Skin-B Experiment: Parmitano conducted the first of five sessions of this experiment. This study investigates the mechanisms behind how skin adapts/regenerates under the influence of weightlessness and the environmental conditions in spacecraft on long duration missions.
Circadian Rhythms: Parmitano performed the first of four sessions of this experiment which examines the circadian rhythm of astronauts during long duration space flight. This includes changes in body composition and temperature, the effect of a non-24 hour light/dark cycle and reduced physical activity due to microgravity and the artificially controlled environment onboard ISS.
Ocular Heath – Cardiac Operations: Due to yesterday’s high Beta angle constraints to Ku-Band commanding and video, the Ocular Health Cardiac operations for Nyberg and Parmitano were rescheduled to today.  The crewmembers performed cardiac ultrasound scans and blood pressure measurements.  Ground specialists assisted with remote guidance for the ultrasound scans. The Ocular Health protocol aims to systematically gather physiological data to characterize the Risk of Microgravity-Induced Visual Impairment/Intracranial Pressure on crewmembers assigned to a 6 month ISS increment. Researchers believe that by systematically measuring visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment, a database could be developed to inform future in-flight research protocols, identify mechanisms, develop countermeasures, and direct clinical monitoring and clinical practice guidelines.

