
Progress 79P Undocking: Today, the Russian Cargo Vehicle Progress 79P, which provided cargo and propellent to the ISS, undocked from the Service Module Aft port at 3:08 AM CT. Following departure from the ISS the vehicle’s thrusters fired to maneuver 79P into a deorbit trajectory to send it into the Earth’s atmosphere where it burned up in re-entry over the Pacific Ocean.
Payloads:
NanoRacks Relocate: The crew removed Nanoracks Platform-2 from Expedite the Processing of Experiments to the Space Station (EXPRESS) rack 3 and trashed it.  Following that, Nanoracks Frame-1 was installed in the old Platform-2 location. NanoRacks Platforms are multipurpose research facilities on board the ISS. NanoRacks Platforms support NanoRacks Modules in the CubeSat form factor by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity.
Nutrition Monitoring for the ISS (NutrISS): The crew set up the NutrISS bioimpedance device and performed a measurement session. They also filled out a questionnaire related to the session. Long-duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In the NutrISS investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is carried out using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. It is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss.
Protein Crystallization Research Facility (PCRF): In support of the PCRF semi-annual maintenance activities, the crew relocated the maintenance units from locations 1, 5, 6 to locations 2, 3, 4. The PCRF is a JAXA subrack facility which investigates protein crystal growth in microgravity. PCRF is housed in the Ryutai (fluid) Experiment Rack, along with the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF), Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF), and the Image Processing Unit (IPU).
Phospho-aging Mechanism of Accelerated Aging Under Microgravity (Phospho-aging): Blood and urine samples were collected and inserted into the Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for preservation. Phospho-aging examines the molecular mechanism behind aging-like symptoms, such as bone loss and muscle atrophy, that occur more rapidly in microgravity. Using analysis of human premature-aging syndromes (progeria) in mouse models, scientists identified CalciProtein Particles (CPPs) as a pro-aging factor in mammals. CPPs behave like a pathogen, inducing chronic inflammation and systemic tissue damage that could be the mechanism behind accelerated aging in space.
Surface Avatar: The crew performed a Surface Avatar session, answered a questionnaire, took photos, and stowed the hardware. The broad objective in this experiment is to investigate how to effectively teleoperate robots on a planetary surface from orbit. Several properties of the orbit-to-ground scenario are also applicable to terrestrial operation. For example, a high-latency or lossy data connection, the mix of structured and unstructured environments, and the types of tasks (e.g., traversing, manipulation of mechanical parts) are characteristic to scenarios such as arctic exploration, search and rescue in disaster zones and under-sea maintenance. Insights from these studies will be also applicable here. For example, gravity and wind act on objects on a planet’s surface which are not felt on orbit. In a similar way, when operating an object underwater, buoyancy, lift and drag forces act on the object which are not found in the operator’s environment.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS):  In support of the current growout, the crew performed the manual water recovery activity and checked the status of the plant growth in Root Modules (RM) 1 and 2. Microbial growth was seen in one of the seed cartridges in RM 1, and all six seed cartridges in RM 1 were trashed. No microbial growth was seen in RM2 and the wicks were opened to allow the seeds to develop. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Catalytic Reactor Remove & Replace (R&R): The WPA provides the capability to produce potable water from humidity condensate and urine distillate. As a function of the WPA, the Catalytic Reactor introduces Oxygen into the system and oxidizes the organics contaminants in the wastewater to break them down. Today, the crew R&R’d the Catalytic Reactor due to the reactor’s thermal instability in preventing the WPA from processing properly. Over time, the reactor degrades and loses the ability to maintain pressure and water in the thermal cover causing condensation in the rack. The bottom thermal covers were removed and inspected for water. The bottom cover had water between the seal and the thermal cover. The crew was able to wipe up the water and place the cover back on the reactor. The Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) filters were replaced because the screens tend to clog with Foreign Object Debris (FOD) restricting air flow and cause elevated temperatures within the racks. These screens are cleaned on an as-needed basis to return AAA temperatures to nominal ranges. Following the R&R, the crew performed WRS and T2 rack closeouts to return the racks to a nominal configuration. Later this week, the crew will reinstall the Urine Transfer System (UTS) and perform a crewed Activation and Checkout (ACO) for T2 to return Node 3 back to a nominal configuration.

