
Fluid Shifts:  Fluid Shift operations continued today in the Russian Service Module (SM).  Kelly was the first to don the Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP/Chibis) device while Kornienko, with ground support in Moscow, assisted with medical monitoring.  While Kelly was subjected to the negative pressure (pulling the fluid toward the feet), Padalka, with remote guidance in Houston, performed arterial and venous measurements of the head and neck; cardiac, ophthalmic, and portal vein measurements; and tissue thickness of various body parts using the Human Research Facility (HRF) ultrasound.  Following Kelly’s Chibis session, Kornienko then donned the Chibis and Padalka acted as the medical monitor with Kelly as the ultrasound operator.  Following the scans, Kelly deconfigured the ultrasound and configured the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) and Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emissions (DPOAE) for tomorrow’s operations.
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections: Cristoforetti performed urine collections for her Return minus 15 (R-15) day Biochemical Profile, Cardio Ox, and Repository experiments.  After collection, the samples were placed in Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a later flight.
Advanced Colloids Experiment Heated-1 (ACE-H1) Configuration: Virts accessed the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) to swap the ACE-Microscopy-3 (M3) experiment to the ACE-H1 experiment.  He removed ACE-M3, changed out cables and configured the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) for the next set of ACE-H1 runs (two planned and one contingency) including placing wipes and oil dispensers inside the LMM Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC). The experiment examines densely packed microscopic spheres, or colloidal mixtures, to study their transition from ordered crystals into disordered glass. The particles are fluorescent and change size in different temperatures so scientists are able to see how they move and change forms as they are heated and cooled. Studying particle interactions without the influence of gravity improves scientists’ ability to understand how increasing disorder in a crystal material affects the freezing, melting, aging and structural integrity.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove & Replace (R&R) Prep: In preparation for tomorrow’s and Thursday’s planned R&R of Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3010 FPS, Cristoforetti gathered and staged tools required for the activity.

