
SpaceX (SpX)-22 Docking:  Following last Thursday’s successful launch, Dragon was docked on Saturday at 4:20 AM CT at the Node 2 Zenith port. Prior to docking the crew gathered and set up necessary tools required for the crew to monitor vehicle approach. After the vehicle docked, the crew completed Dragon International Docking Adapter (IDA) Vestibule pressurization and leak checks, opened Node 2 Overhead Forward Hatch, Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)3 Androgynas Peripheral Assembly (APAS) hatch, and ingressed the vehicle.
Payloads:
ADSEP2 (Advanced Space Experiment Processor-2): The crew removed the ADSEP-2 facility from SpX-22 and installed it into an EXPRESS rack 5.  ADSEP-2 was used to support the UMAMI investigation during its ride up on SpX-22.  Understanding of Microgravity on Animal-Microbe Interactions (UMAMI) examines the effects of spaceflight on the molecular and chemical interactions between beneficial microbes and their animal hosts. Gravity’s role in shaping these interactions is not well understood and microgravity provides the opportunity to improve that understanding. The project uses a simplified symbiosis between the bobtail squid Euprymna scolopes and its symbiotic bacterium, Vibrio fischeri.
ISS HAM pass: The crew participated in an ISS HAM pass with College Maurice Genevoix, Couzeix, France.  Some of the questions asked included how to deal with the stress of a spacewalk, if the practice of Judo helped in the preparation for the first mission, and if the crew has encountered any serious malfunctions during their time in space.  ISS Ham Radio provides opportunities to engage and educate students, teachers, parents and other members of the community in science, technology, engineering and math by providing a means to communicate between astronauts and the ground HAM radio units.
Kidney Cells-02: The crew transferred the Kidney Cells-02 hardware from SpX-22 to SABL (Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory), which is used to provide a controlled environment.  Effects of Microgravity on the Structure and Function of Proximal and Distal Tubule MPS (Kidney Cells-02) uses a 3D kidney cell model or chip to study the effects of microgravity on formation of microcrystals in kidney tubules. In microgravity, these microcrystals are expected to remain evenly suspended, allowing better observation of their effects. Astronauts living in microgravity can experience dehydration, stasis, and bone demineralization, all frequent contributors to kidney stones. Results could support design of better treatments for conditions such as kidney stones and osteoporosis for astronauts and people on Earth.
MTPCG: The crew transferred the thermal insulation bottle ice pack and JAXA PCG Payload Box from the inner insulated container to FROST2 (Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle 2) for freezing.  The Moderate Temperature Protein Crystallization Growth (MTPCG) investigation is designed to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity. The crystals are returned to Earth to determine protein structures in detail; the structures are used to develop pharmaceutical drugs, and to explore the mystery of our lives. The protein samples are launched to the International Space Station by a cargo resupply vehicle and crystallized at 20°C using the counter-diffusion method.
NanoRacks Module-9 ops 2: As a continuation of the NR Mod-9 science, the crew performed the second set of ops.  These involved the opening of the clips on tubes 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 from box 1052, and shaking to mix the contents.  The experiments range from studies of enzyme activity to the effects of microgravity on various plants and animals.  The experiments use NanoRacks MixStix, miniature laboratories activated and deactivated by space station crew and eventually returned to the student teams on Earth for analysis.
Oral Biofilms in Space: The crew performed the steps necessary to hydrate and stimulate bacterial growth within the Oral Biofilms Session Packs for bag 1.  However, it was noted there were disconnections of some of the fluid bags within several of the experiment bags.  It was not possible to reconnect all of these.  The team is discussing the issues and possible causes.  Effect of Environmental Stressors on Oral Biofilm Growth and Treatment (Oral Biofilms in Space) studies the effect of gravity on the behavior of oral bacteria, including the structure of the bacterial community, and changes in bacterial response to common oral care agents. The findings could support development of novel treatments to fight oral diseases such as caries, gingivitis, and periodontitis. The investigation also could provide insights into how microgravity affects the microbiome of other mucosal surfaces in the body.
TICTOC: The crew set up the appropriate hardware and took photos of the 12 plant growth chambers.  Th ground teams will use the images to evaluate the status of the growing plants.  Target, the retail store, is funding the investigation Targeting Improved Cotton Through On-orbit Cultivation (TICTOC) that studies how root system architecture affects plant resilience to stress, water-use efficiency, and carbon sequestration during the critical phase of seedling establishment. Roots play a central role in plant stress resistance and survival, but their growth patterns depend upon gravity. This investigation examines how environmental factors and genes control development of roots in the absence of gravity.
Systems:
Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Troubleshooting: On May 28th, during activation of ROBot via Space Station Computer (SSC) 12 and 16, ground teams were unable to communicate with the SSCs.  On board troubleshooting attempts, thus far, have been unsuccessful at recovering communication.  Troubleshooting steps have included attempts to ping IP addresses from the ground, rebooting the SSCs and verifying their respective modes, bypassing the Joint Station LAN (JSL) 20 port switch, and swapping out the Ethernet cable.  Ground teams are currently discussing further on board troubleshooting options.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Today, the crew performed EVA activities for the upcoming EVA on Wednesday, June 16. They performed an EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV), an EVA Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) Installation Practice and initiated EMU Metal Oxide cartridge regeneration. The crew also cleaned their EMU helmets.

