
81 Progress (81P) Launch and Dock: Today at 4:32 AM CT, 81P launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome carrying food, fuel, and supplies to the ISS. The spacecraft performed a two-orbit rendezvous to the ISS, and completed automated docking to the SM Aft port at 8:02 AM CT.
Payloads:
AstroPi: A video was recorded showing the AstroPi infrared (IR) running student-developed code. Two augmented Raspberry Pi computers (called AstroPis) were flown to the ISS and are both equipped with the mighty Sense Hardware Attached on Top (HAT) that measures the environment inside the ISS, detects how the station moves through space, and picks up the Earth’s magnetic field. Each AstroPi is also equipped with different types of cameras: one has an IR camera, and the other has a standard visible spectrum camera.
Biological Experiment Laboratory in Columbus (Biolab): In preparation for later experiment activities, the crew removed the reference Experiment Containers (ECs). BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the European Columbus laboratory. The facility is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): A crewmember performed a visual inspection of the CAL Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Jumper to check for leaks and reported the observed leakage. The MTL Jumper has been susceptible to a small leak and periodic crew monitoring has been implemented while the ground assesses future remediation options. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero (much colder than the average temperature of deep space). At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (CIR/ACME): Obsolete ACME hardware was located, consolidated, and prepared for trash. The obsolete hardware consisted of ACME experiments which have been performed and the ACME insert previously removed from the CIR to make room for the currently installed experiment insert known as the Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (SoFIE). CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel, and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
European Physiology Module (EPM): As a continuation of the troubleshooting efforts, the crew set up a laptop and initiated a test link configuration with the EPM Facility Control Computer (FCC). The EPM is designed to investigate the effects of short and long-duration spaceflight on the human body and includes equipment for neuroscientific, cardiovascular, and physiological studies.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG)/Transparent Alloys: In a continuation of the Columnar-to-Equiaxed Transition in Solidification Processing-1 (CETSOL-1) series of experiments, the crew exchanged the sample cartridge and data disk. Transparent Alloys consists of numerous experiments including the study of various growth and solidification processes in alloys. CETSOL, the current experiment series, is designed to identify growth regimes (columnar or equiaxed or mixed) and physical mechanisms in dependence of the experimental parameters (solidification velocity, temperature gradient) for diffusive heat and mass transport and without gravity effects.
Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones): The Myotones Echo ultrasound scans which could not be performed earlier this week were performed today. The Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles (e.g., muscle tone, stiffness, elasticity) during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone. This could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation on Earth as well as for future space missions.
Systems:
Water Process Assembly (WPA) Catalytic Reactor Stowage Activities: The crew performed several activities today following this week’s WPA Catalytic Reactor Remove and Replace (R&R). To prepare the failed Catalytic Reactor unit for stowage and return, the crew removed the reactor’s top cover and dried the free water present. Next, the crew reinstalled the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to the NOD3D5 rack and completed an Activation and Checkout (ACO) of the Treadmill 2 (T2) to return Node 3 to a nominal configuration. Finally, the crew restowed tools and parts used during maintenance on the WPA Catalytic Reactor.
Robotic Refueling Mission 3 (RRM3) Payload Xenon Venting: Wednesday evening, ground controllers completed Xenon venting from the RRM3 fixed assembly tank. The RRM3 successfully vented 1 kg of Xenon which was desired prior to the upcoming RRM3 relocation from ExPRESS Logistics Carrier 1 (ELC1) to ELC3.
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) eye exams today. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.

