
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT) Launch: On Wednesday, June 5th, at 9:52 AM CDT, Boeing Starliner Calypso lifted off from Launch Complex-41 at Kennedy Space Center on a United Launch Alliance Atlas V rocket. Boeing Starliner Calypso carries NASA astronauts Barry “Butch” Wilmore and Suni Williams to the ISS. CFT is expected to dock to the ISS on Thursday, June 6th, at 11:15 AM CDT.
Payloads:
Sleep In Orbit: The crew concluded Tuesday night’s science session, transferred the experiment data, and stowed the hardware. These sessions occur overnight during the crew’s sleep, and use electroencephalography (EEG) to study electrical signals in the brain. More information on the Sleep in Orbit experiment can be found here.
Standard Measures (SM): The crew completed their SM post sleep questionnaires. SM uses sample collections and the questionnaires to help characterize the adaptive responses to and risks from living and working in space. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV): The crew performed OFVs for both EMUs in preparation for the upcoming EVAs in June. The fitcheck was used to verify the correct EMU sizing and a comfortable EMU fit for the EV crewmembers prior to the EVA. Fitchecks for both EMU 3013 and EMU 3009 were conducted successfully. The OFV is in preparation for the upcoming Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval 2.5 EVA, CP9 External High-Definition Camera (EHDC) Remove & Replace (R&R) EVA, and ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) 2A Preparation EVA.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Robotics Procedure Review & Conference: The crew performed a review of robotics operations for the RFG Retrieval Part 2.5 EVA including an overview of the steps to setup Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) to monitor Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) motion during real-time operations. The crew then participated in a Robotics Procedure Conference with the ground to discuss any questions or concerns with the procedure.
EDV Drain to Resupply Tank (RST): As a result of the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) remaining down, the crew and the ground team worked to empty EDV contents into an empty RST using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Tomorrow, CFT will deliver a spare PCPA that is planned to be used in a R&R activity on Friday to bring UPA back to nominal operations.
