
New Status: 
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-4 Launch: ATV-4 Albert Einstein launched today at 4:52 p.m. CDT from Kourou, French Guiana. Solar array and antenna deployment occurred at 6:28 p.m. CDT.  The docking of ATV4 to the ISS Service Module Aft is scheduled for next Saturday, June 15 at 8:46 a.m. CDT.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Mesh Cover-Return Grille Cleaning: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy performed this routine maintenance today.  He removed the return grille mesh covers and cleaned inside the return grilles in JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) and the Japanese Experiment Logistics Module – Pressurized Section (JLP).

Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Combustion Chamber (CC) Leak Check: Cassidy successfully completed the second of three leak checks, the CC leak check with negative pressure. Following the test, he recorded the pressure and took photos.  The first leak test, the nitrogen gas supply line check, was successfully performed last week.  The third test, the CC leak check with positive pressure, will be performed on Friday.
eValuatIon And monitoring of microBiofiLms insidE (VIABLE) Experiment: Cassidy conducted the third session of this experiment today. The investigation provides data related to the biosafety and health quality of astronauts as well as maintenance of ISS hardware. This could lead to improved environmental quality of manned confined habitats in space and to specific bases and modules on Earth where humans have to stay long-term, particularly for scientific purposes.
Ocular Health (OH) Experiment: FE-6 Nyberg conducted a visual test on FE-5 Parmitano to test visual acuity, visual field, and contrast sensitivity. Following that activity, Parmitano received his first tonometry eye exam which measures introcular eye pressure. Later in the day, FE-3 Cassidy set up the new Fundoscope and conducted eye exams with the unit on Nyberg and Parmitano. This is the first use of the Fundoscope hardware and new vision testing software. Eye health activities will continue tomorrow when Cassidy performs ultrasound exams on Nyberg and Parmitano. This is a suite of eye exams to gather information on intraocular pressure and eye anatomy.

Microbiome Experiment: Nyberg began this experiment today by completing a questionnaire. Parmitano will complete a questionnaire tomorrow. On Friday and Saturday they will collect perspiration samples immediately after exercise and insert in cold stowage for return to ground. This activity will be executed twice during the increment. The study investigates the impact of space travel on the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome, the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body. This will help predict how long-term space travel may impact the human microbiome and health.

