
Payloads
Electrolysis Measurement (EM): In support of the ongoing EM experiment, the crew performed a series of sample exchanges.  Some minor luer lock issues were experienced yesterday during the final sample cuvette exchange, but were resolved today.  The experiment is expected to process 30 total samples over the next several weeks.  Electrolytic Gas Evolution Under Microgravity (Electrolysis Measurement) examines the influence of gravity on electrolytic gas evolution, a complex electrochemical process with multiple applications on Earth and in space. For example, electrolysis generates bubbles that can be used to create pressure differentials in microfluidic devices, such as skin patches, used to deliver medications. Microgravity makes it possible to single out bubble growth and study its effect on the process.
J-SOLISS removal: The crew removed the SOLISS hardware from the JEMAL slide table and stowed it.  This is a continuation of the ops needed to prepare for the installation of the external JAXA iSIM experiment next week.  The integrated Standard Imager for Microsatellites (iSIM), is a high-resolution optical binocular telescope developed by SATLANTIS. The objective of this experiment is to demonstrate the technology, and its functionality, in the low-Earth orbit environment.
Materials Science Laboratory/Gravitational Effects on Distortion in Sintering (MSL/GEDS): The crew performed the activities needed to exchange the processed science sample cartridge assembly (SCA) with a new SCA. Liquid phase sintering is an important means to fabricate net-shape composite materials for applications over a range of industries. The science of liquid phase sintering is about 50 years old, but practice dates from the 1400s when gold was used to bond platinum in Columbia and Ecuador. Today, it is a mainstay in a diversity of fields, such as metal cutting tools, armor piercing projectiles, automotive engine connecting rods, and self-lubricating bearings. Future applications include use of liquid phase sintering as a means to perform in-space fabrication and repair, and for example using lunar regolith to fabricate structures on the moon or using metal powder to fabricate replacement components during extraterrestrial exploration. The MSL SCA-GEDS-German (NASA Sample Cartridge Assembly-Gravitational Effects on Distortion in Sintering) experiment focuses on determining the underlying scientific principles to forecast density, size, shape, and properties for liquid phase sintered bodies over a broad range of compositions in Earth-gravity (1g) and microgravity (μg) conditions.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N2): The crew retrieved eight dosimeters from the NOD1O3 Rack Front panel area and handed them over to the Russian crew for processing. The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Systems
USOS S6 Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Last night, ground operators completed robotic get-ahead operations to support the S6 Battery EVAs. The Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) was used to release the H1 bolts and break torque on the H2 bolts for all 6 Li-Ion Batteries on Exposed Pallet (EP)9. The first S6 Battery EVA is tentatively planned for Friday, June 26.
ISS Crew Handover: The 62S crew continued handover to the Demo-2 crew including on-orbit practices and lessons learned related to ISS systems and payloads. They also reviewed topics that are not limited to a particular module or scheduled activity as well as those that are usually scheduled as separate activities. This will allow the crew to be on the same page regarding various onboard techniques.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)9 Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued to perform HTV9 cargo transfer operations.  Ground teams estimate ~16 hours of cargo operation remain to unload the vehicle.
Treadmill (T2) Troubleshooting: During the weekly power cycle of the T2 treadmill on GMT 156, the command to shut down the Command Logic Unit (CLU) failed which prevented the power cycle of the T2 rack. Ground teams attempted several troubleshooting steps yesterday to recover the T2 rack without success and believed the issue was due to a corrupted SD Card.  Today, the crew attempted to recover the SD card but were unsuccessful. Discussions are ongoing to determine future recovery steps and T2 is currently declared non-operational.
Quick Response Crew Trainer (QRCT) On Board Training (OBT): Today the crew utilized a newly developed tool for a training session. The QRCT OBT is training for USOS failures that require crew to perform onboard hardware manipulation and vehicle commanding to protect crew/vehicle safety. In the event of a USOS failure that would impact crew/vehicle safety the prime USOS crew would execute this Quick Response to protect the vehicle from failures that may cause loss of ground communication.  Today’s OBT session was the beta test run of the QRCT as an onboard trainer.

