
ISS Attitude Control Disturbance:  ISS experienced unexplained torque around 15:27 GMT in the roll axis.  The attitude control system experienced a large number of desats with a continued increase in attitude error.  SARJs were safed and attitude control was handed over to RS thrusters. Preliminary indications seem to point to an approximate 38-second inadvertent 41S thruster firing following a scheduled Kurs checkout in preparation for 41S undocking.  MCC-M performed realtime commanding to stop the thruster firing.  ISS attitude control has been handed back over to the USOS and the ISS is in a stable attitude.  All ISS and Soyuz systems are operating nominally at this time. 
Human Research Program (HRP) Collections: Kelly and Cristoforetti continued their collections today with Kelly performing a blood draw to support the Biochemical Profile, Cardio Ox, and Twins Study experiments.  The blood collected was inserted into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  Both Kelly and Cristoforetti performed saliva collections for Microbiome and Salivary Markers, and Kelly collected for Twins Study. 
Defining the Relation Between Biomarkers of Oxidative and Inflammatory Stress and Atherosclerosis Risk in Astronauts During and After Long-duration Spaceflight (Cardio Ox): Kelly, with Cristoforetti as the Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and remote guidance support from the ground, performed the Flight Day 60 (FD60) ultrasound scans for Cardio Ox followed by blood pressure measurements and logging results. The objective of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts. Crew members provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, three sessions while in space, and again post-flight. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries will be obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Return To Service (RTS): Following last week’s EMU 3010 Fan Pump Separator (FPS) replacement, Virts performed a checkout of EMU 3010 today, initial results of the checkout were nominal.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Deck Cleaning: In preparation for her departure from the ISS, Cristoforetti cleaned her CQ including intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to grapple the Node 2 Power and Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF).  The SSRMS base was then changed to Node 2, and the Lab PDGF was released.  The SSRMS cameras were then used to perform a survey of the external configuration of the Russian Segment.  Finally, the SSRMS was moved to a park position.  MSS performance was nominal. 

