
Resist Tubule: Commander (CDR) Swanson retrieved two resist tubule chambers from the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and injected water into the tubule chambers. Afterwards the chambers were reinserted into MELFI. Resist Tubule clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance. Gravity resistance is a principal gravity response in plants, and plays an important role in the transition of plant ancestors from an aquatic environment to a terrestrial environment (about 450 million years ago), and in the consequent establishment of land plants. This present study clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance, in particular the processes from signal transformation and transduction, to response.
Biochemical Profile Sample Collection: Swanson collected his Flight Day 60 Biochemical Profile blood samples. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Space Acceleration Measurement System (SAMS) and ISS SERVIR Environmental Research and Visualization system (ISERV) communication anomaly:  Following the Remote Power Switch Controller Module (RPCM) replacement yesterday, communication with the SAMS and ISERV laptops was not successfully established.  The ISERV laptop was recovered today after a reboot.  To recover SAMS functionality, ground controllers are looking to reinstall SAMS boot image from DVD.
On Board Training (OBT): The 39 Soyuz (39S) crew, with assistance from Swanson, performed the following OBTs today:

Emergency Mask Review: The crew demonstrated and evaluated the ability to communicate with Mission Control Center-Moscow (MCC-M) from the Soyuz while wearing an emergency mask.
Emergency Hardware Familiarization: This training provides the crew with locations of equipment and positions of valves used in emergencies. The crew communicated and consulted with specialists at Mission Control Center – Houston (MCC-H), MCC-Moscow, Columbus Control Center and Space Station Integration and Promotion Center.
Cygnus Rendezvous Review: This proficiency training covers Cygnus mission profile, rendezvous procedures, and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding Cygnus. The activity is in preparation for Orbital-2 arrival scheduled for later this month. 

53 Progress (53P) Undock Preparations: Wednesday, the Russian crew was only able to pump two of six USOS urine containers (ЕДВ-Уs) into the 53P Rodnick tanks.  Today they were able to complete the urine transfer and also disposed of an expired ЕДВ-У in the Progress.  The 53P hatches were then closed in preparation for Monday’s undock scheduled for 8:30am CDT.

