ISS On-Orbit Status 06/07/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
After wakeup, Oleg Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Joe Acaba continued his first (FD15) suite of sessions with the controlled Pro K diet protocol (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period after start of collections.  In addition to recording his diet input, Joe began the associated 24-hr urine collections and later set up the equipment for the blood sampling which follows tomorrow.      [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day (science sessions are often referred to by Flight Day 15, 30, 60, etc.  However, there are plus/minus windows associated with these time points so a “Flight Day 15” science session may not actually fall on the crewmember’s 15<sup>th</sup> day on-orbit).  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  On Days 4 &amp; 5, urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI Dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
Upon wakeup, FE-3 Acaba, FE-5 Kuipers &amp; FE-6 Pettit performed their weekly post-sleep session of the Reaction Self-Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self-Test on the ISS) protocol, the 6<sup>th</sup> for Joe, the 46<sup>th</sup> for Don &amp; André.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
Continuing the outfitting work in the MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet module, CDR Kononenko &amp; FE-2 Revin temporarily configured the RS (Russian Segment) STTS audio comm systems for crew research in the module, then had another ~2.5 hrs for installing new enclosures/containers (GK) for crew cargo items in the module.  STTS was later reconfigured to nominal.
 
During the day, FE-1 Padalka took several photos again of the Fizika-Faza part of the educational experiment OBR-1/Fizika-Obrazovaniye.      [Obrazovaniye (Education) is a suite of three educational demonstrations of physics in micro-G, viz., OBR-1-1/”Fizika-LT” (Motion), OBR-1-2/”Fizika-Faza” (Phase) and OBR-1-3/”Fizika-Otolit”.  The “Phase” demo, set up and activated on 6/5, studies a complete gas-liquid phase separation of fine dispersion particles in micro-G with diffusion and surface tension of the fluid.  The experiment is conducted over several days, documented with photography.]
 
After yesterday’s LF (low frequency) checkout, Oleg executed the periodic data dump from the BRI (SSR/Smart Switch Router) control log to the RSS1 laptop for downlink to the ground via OCA (Orbiter Communications Adapter), accompanied by Sergei &amp; Gennady for “knowledge handover”.
 
Later, Kononenko also performed standard service on the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in the MRM1 Rassvet, downloading the new batch of structural dynamics measurements of the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer to the RSE1 laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.       [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.]
 
In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Don Pettit closed out his IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the IPU (Image Processing Unit), today completing work after yesterday’s tilting up of the Ryutai Rack.       [Post-tiltup activities included connecting cables and attaching objects, disconnecting the protective drip bag, connecting the rack’s umbilical jumpers and closing out the MSPR (Multipurpose Small Payload Rack) work bench.]
 
With the video camcorder configured to cover his activities both for real-time downlink and VTR storage during LOS (Loss of Signal), FE-6 Pettit completed the ongoing Amine Swingbed IFM, to replace the failed electrical fuse for the valve motor.        [After disassembling the ISIS (International Subrack Interface Standard) drawer with the Amine Swingbed and relocating its PHU (Power Handler Unit) to the MWA WSA (Maintenance Work Area Work Surface Area) with the pass-through to vacuum containment system, Don soldered a new fuse in place in the PHU, then took resistive measurements with the Scopemeter to verify solder integrity.  Afterwards the containment system was restowed and the MWA WSA stowed/relocated at crew discretion.   Background:  Amine Swingbed, consisting of the Amine Swingbed, Controller with Vacuum Line, Amine Swingbed Mounting Plate, Amine Swingbed Mounting Hardware, Strain Relief Mounting Hardware, Electrostatic Symbol Decal) is a prototype of the CO<sub>2</sub> and moisture control technology to be used in the Orion MPCV (Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle).  It consists of two multilayer sorbent beds in one unit, with a single valve to alternate (“swing”) them between adsorbing from cabin air and desorbing to space vacuum.  The system pulls air from the ISS atmosphere, dries it (and heats it) with a desiccant wheel, cools it back down, scrubs most of the CO<sub>2</sub> and remaining water vapor out, then reheats the scrubbed air, rehumidifies it (and recools it) with the desiccant wheel, then returns the air to the cabin.  Periodically (every 6 - 30 min) the sorbent beds are swapped to expose the freshly vacuum-desorbed bed to the process stream and start regenerating the CO<sub>2</sub>-laden bed.  During bed swap transitions, additional air is saved by equalizing the bed about to be vented with a compressor-evacuated volume.  This will be the first test of the Amine Swingbed payload.  Its purpose is to determine if a vacuum-regenerated amine system can effectively remove carbon dioxide (CO<sub>2</sub>) from the ISS atmosphere using a smaller more efficient vacuum regeneration system.  A similar technology (amine-based pressure swing adsorption) was used on the Shuttle Extended Duration Orbiter, in the form of the RCRS (Regenerative Carbon Dioxide Removal System). The Amine Swingbed payload uses an amine with a significantly greater capacity for CO<sub>2</sub> than the RCRS.  Amines are organic compounds and functional groups that contain a basic nitrogen atom with two “lone pair” electrons.  They are derivatives of ammonia (NH3) wherein one or more of the hydrogen atoms (H) have been replaced by a substituent such as an alkyl or aryl group.  Important amines include amino acids, biogenic amines, trimethylamine, and aniline.  Inorganic derivatives of ammonia are also called ammonia, such as chloramine (NClH2).]
 
André Kuipers performed checkout/maintenance on all CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units, performing the periodic zero-point calibration on their combustible products sensors and comparing their measurements.  
 
In support of POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center)/Huntsville on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), Acaba uninstalled &amp; removed the three protective alignment guides from the rack, re-engaged the snubber pins and locked the safety pins to allow the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be active before begin of ground-commanded CIR operations requiring a microgravity environment. 
 
Working with the ground in investigating ER7 (EXPRESS Rack 7) issues, Joe Acaba used the ER1 laptop computer to collect data and reboot ER7 while POIC had powered on the DECLIC (Device for the Study of Critical Liquids &amp; Crystallization) payload.  Afterwards, the laptop was returned to ER1 and activated. 
 
FE-3 &amp; FE-5 completed their weekly task of filling out their SHD (Space Headache) questionnaires which they started after Soyuz launch on a daily basis and continue on ISS (on an SSC/Station Support Computer) for every week after their first week in space.
 
Pettit filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer), his 17<sup>th</sup>.   [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
André &amp; Joe, for handover, completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.      [The current card (31-0005F) lists 9 CWCs (70.7 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. Silver technical water (no CWCs);  2. Condensate water (3 CWCs with 14.0 L, plus 2 empty bags);  3. Iodinated water (4 CWCs with 56.7 L; and 4. Waste water (1 empty bag EMU waste water).  Also one leaky CWC (#1024) with 8.5 L).  No bags with Wautersia bacteria.  Other CWCs are stowed behind racks and are currently not being tracked due to unchanging contents.  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
In the SM, Gennady gathered and prepared gear, including components of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system, for tomorrow’s scheduled lengthy replacement of the TA968MA monoblock unit of the BITS PTsB Central Processor Subsystem.
 
Afterwards, with BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and VD-SU control mode still deactivated, Padalka removed the BSK-1B common power switching timer of a BSK-0.5 power-switching device (blok silovoiy kommutatsii) of the Russian BVS onboard computer system in the SM behind panel 10 and replaced it with a spare timer unit, then checking connections &amp; fasteners and taking documentary photography for subsequent downlink.  BITS2-12 and VD-SU were then powered up again.
 
Later, with RS STTS audio comm systems temporarily configured for crew presence in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, FE-1 set up another active session for the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), followed by downlinking the video footage obtained with a SONY HVR-Z1J camcorder over two RGS (Russian Groundsite) passes (12:35pm-1:00pm &amp; 2:10pm-2:35pm EDT) and reconfiguring STTS to nominal.       [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
Revin completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Sergei also took care of the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Kuipers broke out and set up the HMS USND-2 (Health Maintenance Systems Ultrasound 2) equipment, then performed an eye scan on Acaba and later also on Pettit as Subject.  Then, André was the Subject of the eye scan for Don as CMO (Crew Medical Officer)/Operator.  Acaba later stowed the equipment.       [Objective of the Ultrasound scans, the 2<sup>nd</sup> for the crewmembers, was an eye examination for the three subjects, using the 12L-RS Ultrasound Scanning Probe and the G1s camcorder (VCA2/Video Camera Assembly 2) to document the measurements.]
 
At ~10:00am EDT, André supported a PAO TV event, responding to questions from Dutch broadcasters at SBS6 Studio in Rietlandpark, Amsterdam, Netherlands.        [The event was moderated by ESA’s Rosita Suenson, and the interviewers were, SBS6 Anchor Marlayne Sahupala and Discovery Channel Anchor Alco De Jong.
 
At ~2:30pm, Don was scheduled for his regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
Before Presleep, Pettit will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Don turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Plaque Hanging:   At 4:30pm, the traditional official plaque will take place in ISS Mission Control/Houston for the Inc-30 Plaque with crew participation.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR/2x, FE-1 FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5), and VELO bike ergometer with load trainer (FE-2).        [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.  Today’s exercise called for CEVIS (aerobic/interval).
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Polar Mesospheric Clouds – Two Opportunities (looking left of track towards the poles for these thin, silvery strands.  PMCs form during the summer in polar regions at ~80 km altitude, far above the troposphere.  Successful imaging requires viewing north towards the pole.  It is very difficult to pick up these wispy clouds with a short lens, so we are requesting the use of a 400mm to capture PMCs.  One other opportunity is mentioned below, but PMCs should be visible coming around the top of your orbit track, north of ~30 deg N (the other yellow tracks on the orbit track maps).  PMCs have increased in brightness in the last four decades, and are appearing further south, even observed from Colorado and Virginia. These changes may be related to climate change).
 

