
Boeing CST-100 CFT: NASA, Boeing, and ULA are targeting NET Wednesday, June 5th for the next CFT launch opportunity after Saturday’s launch scrub.
Payloads:
Earthshine: The crew reviewed the Big Picture Words and set up the hardware which will be used for an Earthshine science session. This investigation involves the thorough analysis of photos taken of the Moon from the ISS at specific points in the lunar cycle to study changes in the Earth’s reflectance of light, or albedo. More information on Earthshine can be found here.
ISS Ham: The crew participated in a Ham Radio contact with Belmont Elementary in Woodbridge, Virginia.  Students at this school are actively involved in learning about various aspects of working in space, and a group of twelve 5th grade students coordinated this Ham event.  More information on ISS Ham can be found here.
Sleep In Orbit: The crew replaced the experiment batteries and began an overnight science session. These sessions occur overnight during the crew’s sleep and use electroencephalography (EEG) to study electrical signals in the brain. More information on the Sleep in Orbit experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Camera Light Pan/Tilt Assembly (CLPA) Remove & Replace (R&R): 
The ground team maneuvered the MSS into position and is in the process of completing a 3-way CLPA swap between the degraded Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body 2 Camera, Mobile Base System (MBS) Mast Camera, and the new Replacement Camera (RCAM). CLPA R&R operations are planned to continue overnight and throughout the day tomorrow.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the three upcoming EVAs in June. They completed an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Hard Upper Torso (HUT) Degas, an EVA Loop Scrub, Virtual Reality Training (VRT) for Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER), and an EVA Procedure Review, among other activities. The activities are in preparation for the upcoming Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval Part 2.5 EVA, CP9 External High-Definition Camera (EHDC) R&R EVA, and ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) 2A Preparation EVA.
Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Analysis: The crew performed an analysis of the PWD using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
