
SpaceX-28 (SpX-28) Docking: SpX-28 successfully docked to the Node 2 Zenith port this morning at 5:04 AM CT. The crew then performed leak checks, opened hatches, and began unloading cargo. Carrying food, supplies, and two ISS Roll Out Solar Arrays (IROSA), the SpX-28 spacecraft launched from the NASA’s Kennedy Space Center on Monday, June 5th, at 10:47 AM CDT.
Payloads:
Analyzing Interferometer for Ambient Air-2 (ANITA-2): Two non-local (at locations away from the ANITA-2 facility), air samples were collected and analyzed by the ANITA-2 system. The ANITA-2 is a compact gas analyzer which can analyze and quantify 33 trace contaminants in the atmosphere aboard the ISS automatically. ANITA-2 can also detect the presence of unknown substances which can be evaluated later on the ground.
Life Support Rack (LSR):  As a continuation of the ongoing troubleshooting, connectivity was successfully established with LSR.  The next step in the troubleshooting plan will be maintaining the connectivity with the ADLink Mini PC installed.  LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. LSR captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR operates for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Lumina:  Lumina hardware was rebooted, and data was transferred to an SSC laptop for subsequent downlink. The Fiber-optic Active Dosimeter (Lumina) is an active fiber dosimeter that monitors, in real-time, the received radiation dose by exploiting the capacity of optical fibers to darken when exposed to radiation. The dosimeter provides reliable dose measurements in complex environments such as the ones associated with electrons, protons, gamma-ray or X-ray photons or neutrons.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4):  In support of the ongoing science campaign 16, the experiment gas supply was switched from Neon to Argon, and the video monitor was verified to be powered on.  PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Space Health:  The 48-hour Space Health session continued, including exercise while wearing the Bio-Monitor sensor garment and answering the experiment questionnaire.  The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. The potential use of the Bio-Monitor system on the Artemis analytical platform for future space missions is being evaluated. The Artemis analytical platform is used to provide automated analysis of the cardiovascular system in order to develop a near real-time assessment tool during long range missions.
Systems:
Transfer SpX-28 Cargo Operations: The crew removed cargo from the SpX-28 cargo vehicle such as: fresh foods, crew care packages, and new science experiments. SpX-28 is planned to remain docked to the space station until later this month where it will depart from the ISS and splashdown off the coast of Florida.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: Today, the crew continued preparations for the upcoming IROSA EVA. The crew completed an EVA tool configuration and charged the EVA Camera D4 Batteries. The crew also participated in an EVA Procedure Conference with ground specialists to address any outstanding questions.
