
SpaceX (SpX)-17 Departure: Following yesterday’s cargo transfer, Dragon egress and hatch closure operations, ground controllers successfully unberthed the vehicle from the Node 2 Nadir port at 7:25 AM CT.  After a nominal release at 11:00 AM CT, Dragon completed a series of separation burns and is progressing towards a splashdown in the Pacific Ocean today at 4:50 PM CT. 
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): Two crew members completed a Team Measures Questionnaire using the data collection tool on a Station Support Computer (SSC).  Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during BCM examines an integrated, standardized suite of measurements for its ability to rapidly and reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight. This suite of measurements has already been tested in ground analog studies, and the flight investigation is intended to evaluate the validity, feasibility, and acceptability of the suite of tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight.
Capillary Structures: The crew filled the science articles and performed a stability assessment, transferred the hardware to the JEM, and programed the camera intervalometer settings.   The operations today begin the Capillary Structures investigation.  Current life-support systems on the ISS require special equipment to separate liquids and gases, including rotating or moving devices that could cause contamination if they break or fail. The Capillary Structures investigation studies a new method using structures of specific shapes to manage fluid and gas mixtures. The investigation studies water recycling and carbon dioxide removal systems, benefiting future efforts to design lightweight, more reliable life support systems for future space missions.
JAXA/Mouse Mission Cleanup: The crew removed the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit and Mouse Habitat Unit Interface Unit from Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF), detached the CBEF odor filters, and wiped down surfaces. The Mouse Mission experiment has been completed and the animals are returning on SpX-17.  The purpose of this mission is to analyze any alterations of the gene expression patterns in several organs and the effects on the germ-cell development of mice exposed to a long-term space environment. 
JEMAL (Japanese Experiment Module Airlock) Reconfig:  The crew extended the JEMAL slide table into the ISS cabin, removed the Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP) Adapter from Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Assembly (MPEP), removed the MPEP from the slide table, then retracted the slide table back into the JEM airlock. These were cleanup activities from previous EXHAM-2 operations.
Minus Eighty-Degree Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI)2 Spare Electronics Unit (EU) Installation:  As part of a nominal stow activity for the EU, the crew installed the spare EU into its stowage location in the MELFI2 unit. The MELFI is a cold storage unit capable of maintaining experiment samples at ultra-cold temperatures throughout a mission.  The MELFI units use nitrogen as a working fluid and have standard set points of -95°C, -35°C and 2°C.
Space Pup: The remaining Space Pup sperm samples, some of which have been on board ISS for approximately 5 years, were packed for return on SpX-17 which concludes the experiment.  Using a mouse model, Space Pup represents the first step towards studying the effects of space radiation on mammalian reproduction, which must be understood to sustain life beyond Earth.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: This morning Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and, once Dragon had been demated from the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM), maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the SpaceX release position. Following release, controllers backed the SSRMS away and, after a nominal Dragon departure, maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position; later today they will support a video survey of the Node 2 Nadir ACBM using the SSRMS Tip Elbow camera.

