ISS On-Orbit Status 06/03/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 At wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 Also at wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson began another 4-day session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), her 3<sup>rd</sup> onboard run, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 4 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]
 
 Afterwards, Tracy set up all PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware, including MBS (Mixing Bag System), powered it up and then spent several hours performing her 2<sup>nd</sup> session with the VO<sub>2</sub>Max assessment, integrated with Thermolab.  Later, she downloaded the data, including Thermolab, to a PCS (Portable Computer System) laptop, powered down, cleaned up and temporarily moved all hardware aside for subsequent operation.     [The experiment VO<sub>2</sub>Max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% &amp; 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]
 
 In the starboard SM CQ (Service Module Crew Quarters) cabin, CDR Skvortsov removed a panel (#447) and inspected/checked out cable connections between components of the SRK Radiation Monitoring System  (BKP &amp; AI SRK).
 
 Moving on into the new MRM1 Rassvet module, docked at SM zenith, Skvortsov then activated and health-checked its MPI Multifunctional Panel which holds the C&amp;W (Caution &amp; Warning) displays.     [Besides a “Current Station Time” clock with alarm &amp; stop watch functions, the panel has indicators for Fire, Toxic Atmosphere (ATM) &amp; Pressure Drop/Leak (∆P/∆t) events plus object selection &amp; active control (ASK) buttons.]
 
 Later, Skvortsov &amp; FE-3 Kornienko checked out &amp; tested the STTS comm channels in the MRM1, supported by ground specialist tagup via S-band. 
 
 In the Soyuz TMA-18/22S crew return vehicle, docked at the MRM2 Poisk module at FGB nadir, the CDR turned off the GA gas analyzer in the SA/Descent Module, after its periodic atmosphere checkup.
 
 Earlier, Kornienko worked for about 2 hrs performing preventive maintenance in the DC1 Docking Compartment by removing its three IDZ-2 SDs (smoke detectors) and replacing them with new SD spares from FGB stowage.     [The electro-inductive SDs are attached with 4 bolts each.  The replacement of one of them, at the V2 fan, also requires the removal &amp; subsequent re-installation of an airflow divider, held with 6 bolts.]
 
 Mikhail then conducted his 5<sup>th</sup> data collection for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.     [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
 Tracy completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.
 [The current card (23-0003J) lists 128 CWCs (3,109.8 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (26 CWCs with 1,066.9 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 545.6 L in 14 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 387.1 L in 9 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 2 bags with 66.6 L require sample analysis, 4 bags with 170.8 L are to be used with microbial filter &amp; 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (84 CWCs with 1,550.1 L, including 27 CWCs with 492.7 L requiring analysis),  4. condensate water (7 bags with 94.8 L, including 2 CWCs with 43.4 L that are to be used with microbial filter, and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 31.3 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 Wearing protective gloves and mask, Alexander conducted preventive maintenance on the MRM1 ventilation system, cleaning the TsV1, TsV2, TsV3 fan screens and the GA-SU (vestibule) hatch screen, then changed out replaceable dust filter cartridges and took situational photographs of the cartridges and the air duct length between the MRM1 and the FGB. 
 
 Afterwards, Sasha did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 Working off the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, Skvortsov was to shoot some more “Life on the Station” footage using the using the SONY HVR-Z7 #2 high-definition camcorder as part of the ongoing effort to create a photo &amp; video imagery database on the flight of ISS-23/24 (“Flight Chronicles”).     [Footage subjects are to be focused on include life on the station, personal hygiene, food intake, playing with water, enjoying weightlessness, exercise, moving about, station interior, Earth surface, space clothing, cosmonaut at work, station cleaning, etc.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]
 
 Later tonight, the CDR will ready the hardware for the Russian geophysics experiment DZZ-12 Rusalka (“Mermaid”) near SM window #14 and charge its battery for another session tomorrow.
 
 Then, shortly before sleep time, Skvortsov sets up the Russian MBI-12 Sonokard payload and starts his 5<sup>th</sup> experiment session, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 At ~11:40am, Tracy Caldwell-Dyson held the regular weekly teleconference with ISS Program Management at JSC/Houston via Ku-band/video &amp; S-band/audio.
 
 The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).   
 
 Reboost:   A one-burn reboost of ISS is scheduled tomorrow night at 11:20pm EDT using SM main propulsion, i.e., its two main engines.  Planned burn duration: 4 min 7 sec; delta-V: 4.3 m/s (14.1 ft/s).  Expected mean altitude gain: 7.6 km (4.1 nmi).  Purpose: set up orbital phasing for both Soyuz 23S and Progress 38P launch/dock conditions.
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Volga - Ural Delta (the crew had a nadir pass in late morning light over this target area with fair weather expected.  As ISS approached the north coast of the Caspian Sea from the west-northwest, a mapping pass of overlapping frames was to begin.  Of particular interest are the coastal wetlands from just west of the Volga River to just east of the Ural River), TROPICAL CYCLONE 03A [PHET] (this small, but rapidly strengthening tropical cyclone has reached Category 3 now and is expected to reach Category 4 as it tracks northeastward just off the southeast coast of the Arabian Peninsula.  Just after crossing the coast of the Gulf of Oman, the crew was to begin looking for this system to the right of track), West Hawk Impact Crater, Manitoba (ISS had a nadir pass at mid-morning in fair weather for this target.  Approach was from the west-southwest.  This impact is marked by a ragged circular lake about 40 miles north of the northwest edge of Lake of The Woods.  CEO researchers are seeking detailed images with the long lens settings), Huachuca Mountains (as ISS tracked southeastward from the Phoenix area in southern Arizona, the crew was to begin looking for isolated mountain ranges marked by darker vegetation in contrast to the desert terrain of the Sonoran Desert.  These features are known as “sky islands” because of their distinct flora/fauna and their isolation from similar areas.  It was early afternoon with clear weather expected.  This roughly horseshoe-shaped cluster of mountains is situated on the Arizona-Sonora border of the United States and Mexico about 70 miles south-southeast of Tucson), and Sierra el Tigre (the next “sky island” target came immediately after the previous one (see Figure 8).  This rugged, saucer-shaped, range of mountains is situated in the northeastern part of the state of Sonora Mexico east of the valley containing the General Lazaro Cardenas Reservoir).
 
 
