
Capillary Structures: The crew performed a scheduled battery exchange for the camera and flash system used for Capillary Structures. They also refilled the science containers to allow further evaporator science operations. Earlier in the day, it was noted the camera battery failed earlier than expected, resulting in a loss of 10-12hrs of imagery. Ground teams are assessing the impacts. The investigation studies a new method using structures of specific shapes to manage fluid and gas mixtures as well as water recycling and carbon dioxide removal systems, benefiting future efforts to design lightweight, more reliable life support systems for future space missions.
Fluidics:  The crew set up the hardware and initiated the first Fluidics science session. The measurement of liquid displacement within a sphere in microgravity relates to a given kinematic representation of a spacecraft’s fuel tank. The FLUIDICS investigation evaluates the Center of Mass (CoM) position regarding a temperature gradient on a representation of a fuel tank. The observation of capillary wave turbulence on the surface of a fluid layer in a low-gravity environment can provide insights into measuring the existing volume in a sphere.
High Definition Television Camera-Exposed Facility 2 (HDTV-EF2): The planned activities needed to support today and tomorrow’s JAXA HDTV-EF2 operations were aborted today due to an error from the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS).  HDTV-EF2 is a high-definition television camera system that is used for Earth observation from the ISS and is exposed to the space environment on the Japanese Experiment Module -Exposed Facility (JEM-EF).  HDTV-EF2 has the ability to smoothly track targets on the surface of the Earth, using its camera platform. The high sensitivity of the camera enables the ability to capture video imagery of the Earth at night. 
The ISS Experience: The crew set up the ISS Experience hardware and discussed the Vascular Echo science session. Talking points included how the arteries and heart react to blood pressure changes, evaluation of a countermeasure for excess blood in the upper body, etc. The crew also used the ISS Experience hardware to observe the performance of the Ultrasound Eye Exam activities. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved.  The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Story Time From Space: The crew performed a reading of chapters 1-3 from the book Ada Lace, Take Me to Your Leader.  Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crewmembers read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crewmembers videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Vascular Echo: The crew marked their femoral artery on right leg, donned the PDOP femoral probe, donned the exercise equipment, and performed a 1-minute light leg exercise followed by the CDL PDOP (Cardiolab Portable Doppler) data collection during the 3-minute recovery. Vascular Echo examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crew members are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone.
Window Observational Research Facility (WORF) Zbook Setup: The crew removed the previous generation rack support laptop (T61p) and set up a new Zbook laptop. Following the completion of ths activity, the ZBook was left shut down but with power applied so the battery can charge prior to laptop power up.  The WORF is a facility for Earth science remote sensing instruments using the Destiny science window in the U.S. Laboratory. WORF has an available internal volume of ~0.64m3 (22.6ft3) for hosting payloads.  The Destiny window has the highest quality optics ever flown on a human-occupied spacecraft.
Node 2 (N2) Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) Gas Trap Install: Today the crew installed the last of the new Gas Trap Plugs on the N2 LTL PPA. Intended to give the crew extra time to response to an on-orbit emergency, these plugs will slow the release of ammonia into the atmosphere in the event of an Interface Heat Exchanger (IFHX) breach.
Emergency Egress Guidance System (EEGS) Installation: In preparation for United States Crew Vehicles (USCV), the crew installed the final EEGS markers at the Node 2 Zenith and Forward hatchways. EEGS are Photo-luminescent markers that provide the crew with the path to their escape vehicles in the event an emergency requires an evacuation of ISS when power to the lights have failed.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collection: The crew collected water samples from the PWD for in-flight and post-flight analysis. Collection is performed multiple times throughout the increment to verify water quality.
Eye Exams: Today the crew completed a second day of routine eye exams using both an Ultrasound machine and Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT). Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.  

