
Soyuz 55S Docking: The 55S vehicle completed a nominal docking to the ISS at 8:01 CDT (13:01 GMT).  The 55S Crew, Sergey Prokopev, Alexander Gerst and Serena Auñón-Chancellor, returned ISS to 6-crew operations after hatch opening at 10:18 CDT (15:18 GMT).  Late this afternoon, the entire ISS crew conducted a Safety Briefing to familiarize the new Soyuz crew with potential hazards and available safety measures on-board ISS; they reviewed the Emergency Equipment in the 55S Soyuz and practiced utilizing various emergency egress routes in the new station configuration. 
Plant Habitat-1:  Today the crew installed Science Carrier #1 into the Plant Habitat Facility. Photographs of each quadrant of the Science Carrier and of the final configuration of the Science Carrier inside the Growth Chamber were taken.  The crew injected water into the distribution system.  Plant Habitat is a fully automated facility that will be used to conduct plant bioscience research on the ISS. The space environment is stressful for all living organisms. Understanding how plants respond will help crews on future missions successfully grow plants for food and oxygen generation. The Plant Habitat-1 investigation compares differences in genetics, metabolism, photosynthesis, and gravity sensing between plants grown in space and on Earth.  This investigation is expected to provide key insights on major changes occurring in plants exposed to microgravity. 
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID):  The crew installed ten RFID Logistics marker tags in PMA-1 today.  RFID Logistics aims to utilize RFID enabled tags on hardware throughout the ISS to assist in the tracking of the hardware as it is moved around the ISS. 
Atmosphere Space Interaction Monitor (ASIM): ASIM Cadmium-Zinc-Telluride (CZT) crystal detectors, are not responding as expected in daylight. As part of the on-going ASIM commissioning, science teams requested use of the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) to illuminate the foil covering the detectors and therefore check the response from a known light source.  Overnight, robotics ground controllers positioned and configured the MSS to provide the requested illumination.  They captured pictures of ASIM from different angles to identify/detect any potential damage or contamination to the instrument.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Today the crew performed a Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) gas check, swapped out EVA GoPro camera equipment, and set up the EVA GoPro camera for EVA.  The crew continued configuring EVA tools and equipment needed during the upcoming US EVA #51 Node 2 External Wireless Communications (EWC) planned for 14th. 

