ISS On-Orbit Status 06/04/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
 At wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 Also at wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson continued her current 4-day session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), her 3<sup>rd</sup> onboard run, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, to be collected the same time of day every day for 4 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.]
 
 CDR Skvortsov terminated his 5<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/ Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-MED laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.     [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
 The crew started out with the periodic pre-breakfast session of the Russian biomedical routine assessment PZEh-MO-8/Body Mass Measurement, using the IM mass measurement device.  Skvortsov set up the IM and later stowed it away.  The two Russian crewmembers also completed the PZEh-MO-7/Calf Volume Measurement protocol.     [For determining body mass in zero-G, where things are weightless but not massless, the Russian IM "scales" for MO-8 measure the inertial forces that arise during the oscillatory motion of a mass driven by two helical metering springs with known spring constants.  By measuring the time period of each oscillation of the unknown mass (the crewmember) and comparing it to the period of a known mass, the crewmember’s mass is calculated by the computer and displayed. MO-7 Calf measurements (left leg only) are taken with the IZOG device, a custom-sewn fabric cuff that fits over the calf, using the knee and lower foot as fixed reference pints, to provide a rough index of deconditioning in zero-G and effectiveness of countermeasures. ].
 
 FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson had ~1h15m set aside for troubleshooting the OGS (Oxygen Generator System) pump ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit) whose pressure sensor has failed.  Its low delta-P indication across the pump ORU had shut down the OGA (Oxygen Generation Assembly) on 5/22.  Today’s procedure was to verify that the OGS Process Controller is not the cause of the sensor failure.     [Steps included opening the OGS Rack doors to access the ORU, connect the Multimeter voltage/current measurement instrument to take voltage readings from the Controller to the sensor (should be ~15 Vdc), then cleaning up and closing out the worksite.  Tracy measured a sensor excitation voltage of 15.08 Vdc, i.e., within nominal range and indicative of a healthy Process Controller.  Additional troubleshooting will be scheduled in the near future to either replace the pump ORU or to operate the OGA without the dP sensor.]
 
 Working in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Tracy installed an SDP (soft dummy panel) over the shell heaters at loc. A4 for protecting them and their cable harnesses from any hitting/scratching damage by floating stowage bags.
 
 FE-3 Kornienko performed the periodic dump (downlink) of log files of the new BRI (SSR/Smart Switch Router) network in the SM (Service Module) to TsUP-Moscow via the RSS1 laptop and OCA, for data evaluation.
 
 In preparation of the planned installation of the PDGF (Power &amp; Data Grapple Fixture) externally on the FGB (Funktsionalnyi-Grusovoi Blok) during US EVA-15 by Caldwell-Dyson &amp; Wheelock (currently on 7/8), Mikhail unstowed the Russian-built PDGF adapter (rama = frame) from Progress 37P, transferred it to the DC1 Docking Compartment and installed a handrail on the adapter frame with six screw bolts and a screw sealant, Anaterm-1u (a special anaerobic compound).      [The additional PDGF with its power/data cabling, the first on the RS (Russian Segment), will extend the “roving” range of the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) which moves itself inch-worm like from PDGF to PDGF.]
 
 Alexander Skvortsov meanwhile completed the periodic (monthly) functional closure test of the Vozdukh CO<sub>2</sub> (carbon dioxide) removal system’s spare AVK emergency vacuum valves, in the spare parts kit.    [The AVKs are crucial because they close the Vozdukh's vacuum access lines in the event of a malfunction in the regular vacuum valves (BVK) or a depressurization in the Vozdukh valve panel (BOA).  Access to vacuum is required to vent CO<sub>2</sub> during the regeneration of the absorbent cartridges (PP).
 
 Other activities performed by CDR Skvortsov included –
 <ul style="margin-top: 0pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 36pt; "> <li>The routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM  [regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers],</li><li>The periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways  [inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, FGB GA–Node-1, and FGB GA-MRM1.]</li><li>Performing troubleshooting on the N2 pump on the 3SPN1 pump panel of the Russian SOTR Thermal Control System’s KOB-2 loop [for the test, the pump which had failed to start, was to be activated with the K-90 switching unit],</li><li>Running a photography session for the DZZ-13 “Seiner” ocean observation program to obtain data on color bloom patterns in North-Western Africa, then copy the images to the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li>Conducting another sun-glint observation session with the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) experiment, using the hand-held spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor) from SM window #9 and later downlinking the data  [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere.]</li></ul> 
 FE-3 Kornienko conducted the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 FE-2 performed the standard zero calibration on the four new CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) instruments delivered by ULF-4 which exhibited signs of sensor contamination upon arrival (but are now displaying readings within acceptable limits): #1044, #1050, #1051, #1058.      [The CSA-CP is a passive cabin atmosphere monitor that provides quick response capability during a combustion event (fire).  Its collected data on CO (Carbon Monoxide), HCN (Hydrogen Cyanide) &amp; HCl (Hydrogen Chloride) are stored on a logger.  New CSA-CPs generally require a certain acclimatization period for “gassing out”, i.e., getting rid of gaseous contaminations brought up from Earth, which then necessitates “zeroing”, i.e., re-calibration to the zero point.]
 
 Using the MAS (Microbial Air Sampler) kit, Tracy collected the periodic microbiology (bacterial &amp; fungal) air samples from specific sampling locations in the SM, Node-1, Lab, JPM and Node-3.     [After a 5-day incubation period, the air samples will be subjected to visual analysis &amp; data recording with the Petri dishes of the MAS.]
 
 For tonight’s planned reboost (11:20pm EDT), FE-2 closed the protective shutters of the Lab, Kibo JPM &amp; Node-3 Cupola windows.
 
 Tracy also re-installed the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) lock-down alignment guides (3) on the FCF (Fluids &amp; Combustion Facility) in the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) to protect the rack from external loading events such as dockings &amp; reboosts.    [The alignment guides need to be installed with slots clocked in different directions.]
 
 Mikhail Kornienko had ~2.5 hrs set aside for working in the FGB to uninstall the PTAB-2 Current Converter unit and replace it with a spare unit.  The old PTAB was discarded and the IMS updated.     [The FGB’s PSS (Power Supply System, Russian: SES/sistema elektrosnabzheniya) was subject of a ground-controlled assessment of two 800A storage batteries along with the PTAB-2 Current Converter and its BUPT-2 RU Converter Control Box.  The troubleshooting by Oleg Kotov on 3/10 appears to have helped narrowing down the search to the PTAB.  There are six 800As in the FGB, eight in the SM.]
 
 Misha &amp; Sasha joined up for another hour of more newsreel shooting using the SONY HVR-Z7 #2 high-definition camcorder as part of the ongoing effort to create a photo &amp; video imagery database on the flight of ISS-23/24 (“Flight Chronicles”).     [Footage subjects are to be focused on include life on the station, personal hygiene, food intake, playing with water, enjoying weightlessness, exercise, moving about, station interior, Earth surface, space clothing, cosmonaut at work, station cleaning, etc.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]
 
 At ~4:05am EDT, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
 At ~5:00am, Skvortsov &amp; Kornienko linked up with TsUP/Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly RS IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
 At ~10:00am, all crewmembers convened for their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office (Steve Lindsey), via S-band S/G-2 audio &amp; phone patch.
 
 At ~10:45am, Caldwell-Dyson held the regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists. 
 
 At ~3:10pm, the crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H.
 
 Tracy, Misha &amp; Sasha completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on TVIS treadmill (CDR,FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-3) and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2).
 
 For her workout, Tracy set up the video equipment to cover her ARED run for real-time (live) biomechanical evaluation by ground specialists and verification of ARED dashpot X-rotation, later tearing the video gear down for stowage.
 
 WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.     [The updated card (24-0007) lists 128 CWCs (3,056.0 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (26 CWCs with 1,034.9 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 513.6 L in 14 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 387.1 L in 9 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 2 bags with 66.6 L require sample analysis, 4 bags with 170.8 L are to be used with microbial filter &amp; 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (84 CWCs with 1,550.1 L, including 26 CWCs with 472.3 L requiring analysis),  4. condensate water (7 bags with 73.0 L, including 2 CWCs with 43.4 L that are to be used with microbial filter, and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 31.3 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 Reboost:   A one-burn reboost of ISS is scheduled tonight at 11:20pm EDT using SM main propulsion, i.e., its two main engines.  Planned burn duration: 4 min 7 sec; delta-V: 4.3 m/s (14.1 ft/s).  Expected mean altitude gain: 7.6 km (4.1 nmi).  Purpose: set up orbital phasing for both Soyuz 23S and Progress 38P launch/dock conditions.
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Luxembourg (the capital city of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has a population approaching 90,000 and is situated in the southern part of the Luxembourg plateau, an area of agriculture and forests among meandering rivers.  ISS had a late morning pass in fair weather.  As the station tracked inland from the English Channel the crew was to begin looking near nadir for this target), Andorra la Vella, Andorra (the capital of the tiny Co-principality of Andorra with a population of about 23,000 is situated in a high, small mountain valley of the eastern Pyrenees Mountains between France and Spain.  ISS pass was at midday in fair weather.  Looking carefully for this small target as ISS tracked eastward over the Pyrenees), Oasis Impact Crater, Libya (ISS had an early afternoon nadir pass in clear weather for this target.  This remote impact site is located in far eastern Libya near the border with Egypt.  It’s about 120 million years old and 18km in diameter.  There are few strong visual cues in this area, so the crew was to simply try for a detailed mapping along their pass), Slate Islands Impact Crater, Ontario (ISS had a late morning pass in fair weather with a near-nadir look at this target located near the northern shore of Lake Superior.  The Slate Islands were formed by a meteor impact approximately 450 million years ago.  The islands have a surface area of about 36 square kilometers, but the entire impact structure is approximately 32 kilometers in diameter.  As ISS approached the edge of Lake Superior from the west, the crew was to look for these, among other small island very near the coast.  Overlapping mapping frames of the islands were requested), and Soufriere Hills Volcano, Caribbean (this active volcano in the northeastern Caribbean Sea has rendered more than half of the island of Montserrat uninhabitable.  ISS had an early afternoon pass in partly cloudy weather with the approach from the northwest.  Imagery of the summit region and northern flanks of the volcano was requested).
 
 
