
53 Progress (53P) Undock: 53P undocked successfully from the ISS at 8:28am CDT with separation burn at 8:33am CDT. Deorbit burn was at 11:34am CDT followed by atmospheric entry and destruction.
Biochemical Profile Sample Collection: Over the weekend, Commander (CDR) Swanson collected his Flight Day (FD) 60 Biochemical Profile urine samples. This experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Resist Tubule: Swanson removed the Resist Tubule samples from the +2 Celsius Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), inserted the samples into Measurement Experiment Unit B and attached the unit inside the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) micro-gravity Incubator Unit (IU). Resist Tubule clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance. Gravity resistance is a principal gravity response in plants, and plays an important role in the transition of plant ancestors from an aquatic environment to a terrestrial environment (about 450 million years ago), and in the consequent establishment of land plants. This present study clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance, in particular the processes from signal transformation and transduction, to response.
Salivary Markers: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst collected urine, saliva, and blood samples for the FD 10 Salivary Markers investigation. These samples will be used to measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays. This research study will help identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system. Maintaining a robust immune system during prolonged spaceflight missions (i.e., to other planets or asteroids) will be important to ensure mission success. If any impairment in immunity is found due to spaceflight, this will allow the development of appropriate countermeasures to help mitigate the risks.
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: FE-5 Wiseman replaced the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) manifold bottle within the CIR. Later in the week Swanson will replace the igniters, needles, fiber arm, and fuel reservoirs. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Space Acceleration Measurement System (SAMS):  Following the Remote Power Switch Controller Module (RPCM) replacement last Thursday, communication with the SAMS laptop was not established. Over the weekend, ground controllers tried unsuccessfully to re-image the hard drive. The SAMS team is working a troubleshooting plan.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for Russian EVA #38 currently planned for June 19, Wiseman gathered US tools and equipment that will be used during the EVA. He then transferred the tools to the Russian crew.

