
Cognition Test Battery Operations: The crew completed pre-test questions and a battery of cognitive tests with performance feedback. Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measure how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions, and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Blood and Urine Collection: The crew collected blood and urine samples and stowed them into Minus Eighty-degree Freezer for ISS (MELF).  These sample collections will be used to support the following HRP investigations:

Biochem Profile tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. Biosamples are archived for use as a resource for future space flight related research.
Cardio Ox determines whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis in astronauts.

 
Packed Bed Reactor Experiment (PBRE) Lab Video Setup: The crew set up a video Camcorder for over-the-shoulder view of the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) high definition (HD) Monitor for the ground to view the water separator. The PBRE will be used to study the behavior of gases and liquids when they flow simultaneously through a column filled with fixed porous media. The porous media or “packing” can be made of different shapes and materials and are used widely in chemical engineering to enhance the contact between two immiscible fluid phases (e.g., liquid-gas, water-oil). Packed columns can serve as reactors, scrubbers, strippers, etc. in systems where efficient interphase contact is desired, both on Earth and in space.
 
Marrow Setup: In preparation for the Marrow Breath and Ambient Air Sample operations planned for tomorrow, today the crew prepared and temp stowed the Marrow air sample collection hardware in the crew quarters. The hardware will be used to take breath as well as ambient air samples immediately after crew wake tomorrow. The Marrow investigation studies the effect of microgravity on human bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. The extent of this effect, and its recovery, are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
 
Dose Tracker: The crew completed entries for medication tracking. This investigation documents the medication usage of crew members before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
 
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet were completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation.  This investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity.
 
Bigelow Expandable Aerospace Module (BEAM) Sensor Installation: Sensor installation Parts A and B were completed yesterday. Today the crew assembled and tested the Distributed Impact Detection System (DIDS) Kits C and D, then assembled and affixed Wireless Temperature system (WTS) Kits C and D. They also deployed six Radiation Area Monitors (RAMs) throughout BEAM and photo documented each deployment location.
 
ISS Reboost: At 9:00 AM CDT today, the ISS performed a reboost using 63P R&D thrusters which set up for 45S landing and 47S 34-orbit rendezvous. Delta-V was 0.45 meters/second with a burn duration of 3 minutes, 59 seconds.
 
Node 1/ Airlock VAP modification:  The Node 1/ Airlock Vacuum Access Panel which was installed last week failed an 8 hour leak check overnight.  The crew checked connections and the leak check is being repeated tonight.
 
Crew Departure Preparations: The 45S crew packed personal items to be returned, and trashed unwanted items in preparation for return to Earth on June 18. They also had a conference with Russian specialists.
 

