
Ocular Health (OH): Commander (CDR) Swanson conducted his Flight Day (FD) 60 Ocular Health vision test. Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst and Swanson took turns using the tonometer to collect eye pressure measurements. Tomorrow, retinal images will be collected with the fundoscope. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-M-2 Sample Mixing: FE-5 Wiseman mixed ACE-M-2 samples in preparation for sample analysis in the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) at a later date.  In the ACE-M-2 investigation, a model colloidal system is used to observe the microscopic behavior of liquids and gases separating from each other, near the critical point, via a process called spinodal decomposition.
Emergency Roles & Responsibilities (R&R) Review/Crew Handover: All 6 crewmembers reviewed emergency general instructions and discussed overall emergency response. Following this activity, Swanson continued general handover with the 39S crew.
Japanese Pressurized Module (JPM) Return Grille Cleaning: Swanson removed return grille mesh covers and cleaned inside the grilles in the JPM.
Robotics Operations:  Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to a Mobile Transporter (MT) translation configuration.  This also moved the SSRMS out of a keepout zone for the SCAN Testbed payload.  Controllers also verified that the iris of the Camera Light Pan/Tilt Unit Assembly (CLPA) installed on SSRMS Boom B last Tuesday would close nominally.
Positive High Beta:  The ISS is in a period of high solar beta, with a peak of +74 degrees on June 4.  The ISS will be continuous sunlight until June 6.  Ground teams are closely monitoring thermal data, and no hardware has exceeded thermal limits.

