
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): Today, the CFT crew completed various post-docking activities to unload CFT cargo and configure the Starliner vehicle for quiescent operations. The crew performed Cargo Transfer, Centerline Camera and Tablet Battery Charging, a Nitrogen/Oxygen Resupply System (NORS) Mount Fit Test, and an Emergency Equipment Transfer and Checkout.
Payloads:
Immunity Assay: The crew finished the processing of the samples in support of this IA science session. The experiment looks at cellular immune functions using a functional immune test performed onboard ISS. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Plasma Kristal-4 (PK-4): The crew reviewed the familiarization document for the upcoming PK-4 Experiment Campaign 19. PK-4 looks at complex or “dusty” plasmas, in which small particles are suspended and form patterns in ionized gas.  More information on PK-4 can be found here.
Transparent Alloys: The crew gained access to the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and Transparent Alloys and exchanged the full data disk for a new one. Transparent Alloys is currently performing Columnar-to Equiaxial Transition during Solidification-2 (CETSOL-2) science activities, which studies modelling of grain structure formation in relevant industrial castings. More information on Transparent Alloys/CETSOL-2 can be found here.
Systems:
Boeing Starliner Thermal Protection System (TPS) Survey: Robotics ground controllers performed a detailed survey of the Boeing Starliner vehicle’s TPS with the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) following its arrival on Thursday, June 6th. The inspection also included imagery of the aft thrusters and the sublimator vent. TPS inspection are performed on returning vehicles prior to undock from the ISS to ensure the vehicle is in good configuration for re-entry.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Pressure Control & Pump Assembly (PCPA) Remove & Replace (R&R): On Wednesday, May 29th, the PCPA in the UPA failed without a viable spare on board. A spare PCPA was flown on the Boeing CST-100 CFT mission. Today, the crew successfully installed the new spare PCPA into UPA. The ground team will continue to assess the system overnight.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the three upcoming EVAs in June. They completed an EVA Procedure Review, EVA Tool Configuration, and EVA Battery Operations. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming RFG Retrieval Part 2.5 EVA, CP9 External High-Definition Camera (EHDC) Remove & Replace (R&R) EVA, and ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) 2A Preparation EVA.
