
Payloads
Combustion Integration Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (CIR/ACME):  In a continuation of the s-Flame part 2 investigation, the crew performed the necessary activities to change out a mass flow controller and igniter.  The mass flow controller allows the ACME experimenters to study combustion under different gas flow regimes.  The igniter was changed from a well-used hoop style igniter to a coil style igniter which can deliver more energy to ignite a gas mixture.  A minor leak was seen in one of the coolant Quick Disconnect (QD) fittings when it was removed, but this is not expected to be an issue once installed again.  The purpose of s-Flame is to advance our ability to predict the structure and dynamics, including extinction and instabilities, of both soot-free and sooty flames. The results may contribute to the development of lean-burn engines for improved efficiency and reduced pollutant emissions here on Earth.  S-Flame is one of five experiments hosted by CIR/ACME which is designed to study gaseous flames.
Systems
Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review: All five crewmembers participated in this required training. Some of the topics covered were crew accountability during emergency situations, escape vehicle readiness, ISS Commander responsibilities and safe haven plan. 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: Crew performed an analysis of the water processing assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEP) Inspection: Today, the crew performed the periodic PEP inspection, which involves utilizing a PEPs matrix and inspecting various emergency provisions such as the Portable Fire Extinguisher (PFE), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), Quick Don Mask (QDM), and Extension Hose Tee Assemblies at multiple locations throughout the space station.  The crew spends several minutes on each item and notes any visible damage.  Inspections are performed routinely to ensure the PEPs are in good operational condition.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Cargo Review & Conference: In preparation to perform HTV Cargo Ops, the newly arrived crew reviewed cargo ops products prior to a cargo conference with ground specialists. The conference was an opportunity to discuss a high-level overview of the required cargo transfer associated with the vehicle.
Crew Dragon Safe Haven Demo: The USOS crew participated in a mock drill to simulate an emergency scenario on ISS that would lead the Demo-2 crew to ingress Crew Dragon to establish a safe haven. The demonstration is meant to validate the anticipated time required to perform these actions in the event of a real emergency.

