All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
After wakeup, Oleg Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Joe Acaba continued his first (FD15) suite of sessions with the controlled Pro K diet protocol (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period after start of collections.  In addition to recording his diet input, Acaba set up the equipment for the associated 24-hr urine collections for pH value starting tomorrow (6/7), followed by blood sampling on Friday (6/8).      [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day (science sessions are often referred to by Flight Day 15, 30, 60, etc.  However, there are plus/minus windows associated with these time points so a “Flight Day 15” science session may not actually fall on the crewmember’s 15<sup>th</sup> day on-orbit).  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  On Days 4 &amp; 5, urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI Dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
André Kuipers completed the IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the IPU (Image Processing Unit) of the Ryutai Rack in the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) started by him on 6/4 and continued by Don Pettit yesterday.      [Steps included setting up the G1 camcorder for real-time monitoring and then installing the IPU drawer with the replaced power supply unit in the Ryutai Rack, tilting the rack down for connecting the drawer and fastening the rear panel, then tilting the rack up again and tightening the IPU front fasteners.  After a water leak check, FE-5 closed out the G1 coverage.]
 
Continuing the outfitting work in the MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet module, CDR Kononenko temporarily configured the RS (Russian Segment) STTS audio comm systems for crew research in the module, then had another ~2.5 hrs for installing new enclosures/containers (GK) for crew cargo items in the module.  STTS was later reconfigured to nominal.
 
FE-1 Padalka meanwhile continued his activity of replacing several components of the SUBA onboard equipment control system behind SM wall panels, today a KTK switch box (triple-command commutator).
 
FE-2 Revin performed the periodic inspection &amp; inventory of light fixtures in the FGB, MRM2 &amp; DC1 modules.
 
In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) FE-5 Kuipers replaced JEMRMS JMUs (Robotic Manipulator System Joint Motor Unit) labels.
 
André also reviewed ALTEA (Anomalous Long Term Effects on Astronauts) Shielding installation procedures in preparation for upcoming operations.
 
Joe collected a 90cc water sample from the OGS (Oxygen Generation System) recirculation loop for return on a future vehicle.
 
FE-6 Pettit continued the extensive IFM on the Amine Swingbed hardware which needs to have the electrical fuse for the valve motor replaced.       [Preparatory to the actual activity of soldering the new fuse in place, scheduled tomorrow, Don today gathered necessary equipment, discussed the fuse replacement with ground specialist and prepared the MWA WSA (Maintenance Work Area Work Surface Area) with its containment system (with vacuum pass-through for the vacuum cleaner) for the activities, then charged two power tool batteries for use during the soldering repair.]
 
After charging the BAR TTM-2 battery at wakeup, CDR Kononenko &amp; FE-2 Revin used the KPT-2 payload and its BAR science instruments suite for measuring environmental data in the RS (Russian Segment), today focusing with the TTM-2 hotwire anemometer &amp; Piren-V instruments to conduct air temperature and humidity monitoring of areas behind panels in the ASU toilet facility (139, 454) and behind panels 250, 338, 327 to populate the mapped data base.  Afterwards, Oleg started recharge of the TTM-2 battery and terminated it before sleeptime.     [KPT-2 monitors problem areas, necessary to predict shell micro-destruction rate and to develop measures to extend station life.  Data are copied to the RSE1 laptop for downlink to Earth via OCA, with photographs, and the activities are supported by ground specialist tagup as required.  Objective of the Russian KPT-2/BAR science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind RS (Russian Segment) panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Piren-V is a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Besides KPT-2 Piren-V, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU-1) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
With RS STTS audio comm systems temporarily configured for crew presence in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, Gennady Padalka meanwhile conducted another active session for the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), followed by downlinking the video footage obtained with a SONY HVR-Z1J camcorder over two RGS (Russian Groundsite) passes (11:55am-12:20pm &amp; 1:25pm-1:50pm EDT) and reconfiguring STTS to nominal.       [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
Joe Acaba configured the equipment for the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment and then began his 2<sup>nd</sup> (FD30) session of the ESA ICV Ambulatory Monitoring assessment, assisted by Don Pettit in preparing the Actiwatches, electrode sites, attaching the harness and donning the Cardiopres.  At ~11:20am EDT, FE-3 observed the initial 10-min rest period under quiet, restful conditions before going about his business.  Later in the day, Makita batteries were swapped and set up for recharge.        [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan includes an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
Don &amp; André each completed another session with the MedOps psychological evaluation experiment WinSCAT (Spaceflight Cognitive Assessment Tool for Windows), logging in on the MEC laptop and going through the psychological evaluation exercise on the PC-based WinSCAT application.  It was their 6<sup>th</sup> run.      [WinSCAT is a monthly time-constrained questionnaire test of cognitive abilities, routinely performed by astronauts aboard the ISS every 30 days before or after the PHS (periodic health status) test or on special CDR's, crewmembers or flight surgeons request.  The test uses cognitive subtests that measure sustained concentration, verbal working memory, attention, short-term memory, spatial processing, and math skills. The five cognitive subtests are Coding Memory - Learning, Continuous Processing Task (CPT), Match to Sample, Mathematics, and Coding Delayed Recall.  These WinSCAT subtests are the same as those used during NASA’s long-duration bed rest studies.]
 
Joe had another ~45 min for performing the continuing preventive inspection &amp; cleaning of accessible AR (Atmosphere Revitalization) system bacteria filters in Node-1, Node-2, Node-3, Airlock and Lab.
 
Gennady &amp; Sergei configured the educational experiment OBR-1/Fizika-Obrazovaniye and started another session, today the OBR-1-1/”Fizika-LT” (Letaushaya Tarelka/Flying Disk) demo, also called “UFO”, several times taking photographs of the experiment.  Revin recorded the activity on video.  FE-1 also took pictures during the day of the Fizika-Faza session set up yesterday.      [Obrazovaniye (Education) is a suite of three educational demonstrations of physics in micro-G, viz., OBR-1-1/”Fizika-LT” (Motion), OBR-1-2/”Fizika-Faza” (Phase) and OBR-1-3/”Fizika-Otolit”.  Flying modes of the LT/Flying Saucer today were Bernoulli Law Hovering, Rotation, Rotation without Precession, and Rotation with Precession.]
 
Oleg conducted the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.      [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB GA-MRM1, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1.]
 
In Node-3, Acaba undertook the periodic manual fill of the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment) EDV-SV (condensate container) flush water tank from the PWB (Potable Water Bus) for about 22 min, a partial fill during which WHC was not available.
 
Padalka set up the A-R water transfer hose with BP pumping equipment and transferred water from Tank 1 of the ATV-3 WDS (Automated Transfer Vehicle 3 Water Delivery System) to a KOV EDV container (#572).      [The 40-minute procedure is specially designed for gas/liquid separation, i.e., to prevent air bubbles larger than ~10 mm from getting into the Elektron’s BZh Liquid Unit where they could cause Elektron shutdown.]
 
Afterwards, Gennady performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Don Pettit completed his 6<sup>th</sup> OOHA (On-Orbit Hearing Assessment) test, a 30-minute NASA environmental health systems examination to assess the efficacy of acoustic countermeasures and monitor crew hearing status on-orbit, using a special software application on the SSC (Station Support Computer) laptop.    [The self-administered OOHA test is a variation of conventional audiometric testing, in which the crewmember determines minimum audibility for tones, over a wide range of frequencies (0.25-10 kHz) and sound pressure levels, in each ear.  While wearing custom-made Prophonics earphones and Bose active noise reduction headsets, the crewmember uses special EarQ software on the SSC to determine the lowest sound pressure level at which the tone can still be heard.  The first on-orbit test is required not later than about Flight Day 14 for each new Expedition and is then generally performed once per 45 days thereafter.  Results are then reviewed by medical personnel and compared to pre-flight OOHA data and also to previous on-orbit OOHA results.  Note: There have been temporary shifts in hearing sensitivity documented on some crewmembers, most of which have recovered to pre-mission levels.]
 
Sergei took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
FE-2 also worked with the CMS (Countermeasure System), a component of the SKDS GANK-4M suite, to check for CO (Carbon Monoxide) and Formaldehyde contamination in the SM, recording the measurements.      [CMS uses preprogrammed microchips to measure for numerous contaminants such as O-Xylol (1,2-Dimethylbenzol, C<sub>8</sub>H<sub>10</sub>), Hydrogen Chloride (HCl), Formaldehyde, Isopropanol, Methanol, Toluene, Mercaptan, Sulphur Dioxide, Hydrogen Cyanide, Phosgene, Ozone, Acetic Acid, Ammonia, Nitrogen Dioxide, Nitrous Oxides, Acetone, Benzene, Carbon Monoxide, etc.]
 
Kononenko tested low-frequency data transfer from the BRI (SSR/Smart Switch Router) to the RSS1 laptop (for later downlink to the ground via OCA).
 
Padalka completed his 2<sup>nd</sup> data collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.       [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
Acaba, Kuipers &amp; Pettit took turns as subjects for a session with the HMS (Health Maintenance System) Tonometry payload.   First, Don acted as CMO to measure André’s intraocular pressure; then he &amp; Joe were the subjects with André as operator.  The activities were supervised via live Ku-band video by medical ground personnel.  It was the 3<sup>rd</sup> Tonometry run for FE-5 &amp; FE-6, the first for FE-3.        [Data take was preceded by a skill refresher on an eye simulator, observed from the ground.  Seven to 10 measurements are required for the Tonometer to calculate an eye pressure reading and the statistical confidence level.  For the actual Tonometry, anesthetic eye drops (Proparacaine) are used that are effective in approx. 30 seconds and last for 20 minutes or longer.  Tonometer measurements in micro-G are used to assess the health of the crew’s eyes.]
 
At ~7:05am EDT, André powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at ~7:15am conducted a ham radio session with students at Kawatinagano Higashi Junior High School, Kawatinagano, Osaka, Japan.
 
At ~9:45am, Acaba had his regular weekly PMC (Private Medical Conference), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video.
 
At ~12:30pm, Kuipers, Pettit &amp; Acaba supported two Educational PAO TV events, responding to questions from students at the Junction Avenue K-8 School in Livermore, CA, and also downlinking a message for use by the NASA HEOMD (Human Exploration Operations Mission Directorate)’s education outreach program.
 
Don &amp; Joe had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in their electronic Journals on the personal SSC.    [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Before Presleep, Pettit will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Don turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-1 FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with load trainer (FE-1).        [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.  Today’s exercise called for ARED+T2 (resistive+aerobic/continuous), with CEVIS (aerobic/interval) tomorrow.] 
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Polar Mesospheric Clouds – two opportunities (looking left of track towards the poles for these thin, silvery strands. PMCs form during the summer in polar regions at ~80 km altitude, far above the troposphere.  Successful imaging requires viewing from the night hemisphere, looking north towards the pole into the illumination from the sun.  It is very difficult to pick up these wispy clouds with a short lens, so we are requesting the use of a 400mm to capture PMCs.  One other opportunity is mentioned below, but PMCs may be visible from any night orbit, north of ~30 deg N.  PMCs have increased in brightness in the last four decades, and are appearing further south, even observed from Colorado and Virginia.  These changes may be related to climate change).
 


