
Study of the Impact of Long-Term Space Travel on the Astronauts’ Microbiome (Microbiome): Cristoforetti performed her Return-14 (R-14) Microbiome session. She collected body swab samples, a potable water sample, surface sample, and a perspiration sample following exercise.  All samples were inserted into MELFI.  The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). To monitor the status of the crewmembers’ microbiome and immune system and their interaction with the unique environment of the International Space Station (ISS), we will take periodic samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment.
Cell Mechanosensing-3: Virts activated the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) and Thermal Container to enable the ground to perform additional data collection in advance of the Cell Mechanosensing-3 experiment, launching on SpaceX-7.  Specialists reviewed data from the initial checkout performed in early May and have requested additional data points prior to experiment activation.
Russian Segment Fluid Shifts Preparations: Kelly transferred and set up the ultrasound hardware for tomorrow’s Fluid Shifts sessions when Kelly and Kornienko will don the Lower Body Negative Pressure (Chibis) suit and undergo ultrasound measurements.  Padalka will assist the crewmembers, first as the ultrasound scanner for Kelly while Kornienko is the Chibis operator, then Padalka will be the Chibis operator and Kelly the ultrasound scanner for Kornienko. Fluid Shifts is a joint NASA-Russian experiment that investigates the causes for severe and lasting physical changes to astronaut’s eyes. Because the headward fluid shift is a hypothesized contributor to these changes, reversing this fluid shift with a lower body negative pressure device is investigated as a possible intervention. Results from this study may help to develop preventative measures against lasting changes in vision and eye damage.
Sleep ISS-12: Kelly and Kornienko are performing their week of sleep logging.  Within fifteen minutes of wakeup, the crew answered questions from the SleepLog application on the Station Support Computer (SSC).  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity, and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness, to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the International Space Station (ISS). 
Fan Pump Separator Remove and Replace (R&R) Preparation:  As a result of Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3010 inability to establish sufficient cooling water flow during last week’s maintenance, an FPS R&R is scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday of this week.  Today, Virts and Cristoforetti performed a detailed review of the R&R procedure and conducted a conference with ground specialists. The crew also gathered and configured tools in preparation for the R&R.

