
SpaceX (SpX)-11 Launch and Berth: SpX-11 launched on Saturday, June 3 at 4:07pm CDT. Capture occurred today at 9:00am CDT followed by berthing at ~11:30m CDT. The crew completed successful pressurization and leak checks, removed Control Panel Assemblies and configured the Dragon vestibule for ingress which is scheduled tomorrow. Robotics ground controllers will translate the Mobile Transporter from Work Site (WS) 4 to WS6 and unstow Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) in preparation for Dragon trunk unloading tomorrow.
Rodent Research (RR) Transfer Review: Following capture and berthing of SpX-11, the crew prepared for transfer of the mice from Dragon planned for this Wednesday. They reviewed Big Picture words, presentations, videos and reference material and procedures for transferring the animals from the transporter to their habitat. Following the review they completed a conference with ground teams. 
Orbital 7 (OA-7) Unberth: OA-7 unberthed from the ISS on Sunday, June 4 at 6:05am CDT with release at 8:10am CDT. The delay of SpX-11 launch on Thursday allowed OA-7 to unberth Sunday. Following departure, Cygnus is supporting two NASA payloads – SAFFIRE III and NRCSD-E prior to re-entry on June 11. 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 3:  Yesterday the crew removed Biophysics-3 Plate 1 and placed it into a MERLIN.  Investigators will use the results from LMM Biophysics 3 to examine the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity. This investigation is expected to add to scientists’ understanding of the physical processes that enable high-quality crystals to grow in space where Earth’s gravity does not interfere with their formation. 
Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Troubleshooting: Over the weekend the crew performed additional CEVIS troubleshooting utilizing spare cables to check out both control panels.  Neither control panel functioned with either cable. The crew returned CEVIS to the temporary configuration using the Contingency Control Panel (CCP) and the spare cable. When using the CCP, the crew must manually dial the resistance and record their exercise information. A spare ergometer, control panel and 2 power cables are scheduled for launch on SpX-12. An additional ground cable and CCP are also being refurbished for flight. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to maneuver the Dragon to and install it on the Node-2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM). They then supported the inspection of the Dragon Passive CBM sealing surface.  Ground Controllers then captured and bolted Dragon to the ISS. The MSS was subsequently configured to a nominal operations configuration.  

