ISS On-Orbit Status 06/04/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Underway:  Week 6 of Increment 31 (six-person crew).  
 
After wakeup, Gennady Padalka performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Joe Acaba began his first (FD15) suite of sessions with the controlled Pro K diet protocol (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery) with diet logging after the urine pH spot test, for a 5-day period after start of collections.  After recording his diet input today, Joe will begin the urine collections for pH value on Thursday (6/7) and blood sampling on Friday (6/8).      [For Pro K, there are five in-flight sessions (FD15, FD30, FD60, FD120, FD180) of samplings, to be shared with the NUTRITION w/Repository protocol, each one with five days of diet &amp; urine pH logging and photography on the last day (science sessions are often referred to by Flight Day 15, 30, 60, etc.  However, there are plus/minus windows associated with these time points so a “Flight Day 15” science session may not actually fall on the crewmember’s 15<sup>th</sup> day on-orbit).  The crewmember prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken.  On Days 4 &amp; 5, urine collections are spread over 24 hrs; samples go into the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 min after collection.  Blood samples, on the last day, are centrifuged in the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) and placed in MELFI at -80 degC.  There is an 8-hr fasting requirement prior to the blood draw (i.e., no food or drink, but water ingestion is encouraged).  MELFI constraints:  Maximum MELFI dewar open time: 60 sec; at least 45 min between MELFI dewar door openings.]
 
André Kuipers started another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.     [Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware],
 
In support of POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center)/Huntsville on the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack), FE-5 uninstalled &amp; removed the three protective alignment guides from the rack, re-engaged the snubber pins and locked the safety pins to allow the PaRIS (Passive Rack Isolation System) to be active before begin of ground-commanded CIR operations requiring a microgravity environment. 
 
Gennady made preparations for continuing the IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the BITS2-12 onboard measurement telemetry system’s TA968MA units of the PTsB Central Processor Subsystem primary &amp; backup sets in the SM by taking voltage measurements on the power buses of the BGPO1 &amp; BGPO2 Exchange Programs Generators. 
 
In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-6 Pettit configured the PPFS (Portable Pulmonary Function System) hardware plus MBS (Mixing Bag System) in COL, including calibrating the PPFS software and checking instruments, and then conducted his 6<sup>th</sup> and final session with the VO<sub>2</sub>max (Evaluation of Maximal Oxygen Uptake &amp; Submaximal Estimates of VO<sub>2</sub>max before, during and after long-duration space station missions) assessment, integrated with Thermolab (head sensors).  After the session, Don powered down, cleaned up &amp; partially stows the equipment, then downloaded the data to a PCS laptop.        [The experiment VO<sub>2</sub>max uses the PPFS, CEVIS ergometer cycle with vibration isolation, PFS (Pulmonary Function System) gas cylinders and mixing bag system, plus multiple other pieces of hardware to measure oxygen uptake, cardiac output, and more.  The exercise protocol consists of a 2-min rest period, then three 5-min stages at workloads eliciting 25%, 50% &amp; 75% of aerobic capacity as measured pre-flight, followed by a 25-watt increase in workload every minute until the crewmember reaches maximum exercise capacity.  At that point, CEVIS workload increase is stopped, and a 5-min cool down period follows at the 25% load.  Rebreathing measurements are initiated by the subject during the last minute of each stage.  Constraints are: no food 2 hrs prior to exercise start, no caffeine 8 hrs prior to exercise, and must be well hydrated.]
 
CDR Kononenko &amp; FE-2 Revin temporarily configured the RS (Russian Segment) STTS audio comm systems for crew research in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet, then worked ~2.5 hrs preparing for the major outfitting of the module with new enclosures/containers (GK) for crew cargo items.  STTS was later reconfigured to nominal.
 
FE-1 Padalka meanwhile performed the periodic (every Monday) verification of the automatic IUS AntiVirus definition update on the Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2, as well as performed the manual update on the non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.       [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the SSCV4 software update.  Before the installation (on 8/8) of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.  On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops.  Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
Afterwards, Gennady reviewed &amp; prepared for tomorrow’s scheduled replacement of several instruments of the SUBA onboard equipment control system behind SM wall panels, including a KTK switch box (triple-command commutator), a BSK-7,5 power-switching device (blok silovoiy kommutatsii)  and a BSV-M Frequency &amp; Time Synchronization Unit (i.e., master clock) box.
 
Padalka also set up and conducted a science session with the BTKh-43 KONSTANTA, bioreactor magazine #3-3.      [BTKh-43 studies potential effects of spaceflight factors and their nature on the activity of a model enzyme relative to a specific substrate.  Bioreactors are specialized hardware for growing, cells, tissues, and microorganisms.]
 
Kononenko made preparations for the replacement of the RS (Russian Segment) URM remote laptop in the USOS (US Segment).
 
Don Pettit completed the standard 30-day inspection of the AED (Automated External Defibrillator) in the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack.      [AED is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses the potentially life threatening cardiac arrhythmias of ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in a patient.  It then can treat them through defibrillation, i.e., the application of electrical therapy which stops the arrhythmia, allowing the heart to re-establish an effective rhythm.]
 
FE-6 also conducted the periodic inspection &amp; checkout of the HMS RSP (Health Maintenance System Respiratory Support Pack) #1004.
 
Joe Acaba performed periodic maintenance on the EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) equipment in the US A/L (Airlock), first removing EMUs 3005 &amp; 3015 from the EDDAs (EMU Don/Doff Assemblies) for temporary stowage in the C/L (Crewlock), then installing EMU 3010 (Aft EDDA) &amp; 3011 (Fwd EDDA), filling their feed water tanks, then configuring them for the periodic loop scrub.        [This required setting them up with their SCUs (Service &amp; Cooling Umbilicals) and initiating the standard one-hour scrubbing process on the EMU’s &amp; A/L’s cooling water loops, filtering ionic and particulate matter (via a 3-micron filter).  Then the cooling loops were reconfigured and the ~2hr biocide (iodination) filtering initiated.  The activity met the periodic maintenance requirements of the EMUs; no checkout steps were required.  Loop scrubbing, incl. iodination of the LCVGs (Liquid Cooling &amp; Ventilation Garments) for biocidal maintenance, is done to eliminate any biomass and particulate matter that may have accumulated in the loops.]
 
André Kuipers worked several hours in the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), performing troubleshooting (visual inspection) on the failed IPU (Image Processing Unit) from the Ryutai Rack.     [Activity steps included setting up the G1 camcorder for real-time video monitoring on the ground, preparing the MSPR (Multipurpose Small Payload Rack) work bench, releasing the IPU front fastener bolts, tilting down the Ryutai Rack for releasing the IPU drawer, then tilting the rack up again, and removing the IP drawer for inspection.]
 
Due to time limitation, FE-6 Pettit’s originally scheduled cleaning of the Stbd CQ (Crew Quarters) in Node-2 was changed to the task of installing covers over CQ inlet &amp; exhaust ducts to act as a filters.
 
Revin completed the regular (weekly) inspection of the replaceable half-coupling of the 4GB4 hydraulic unit of cooling loop KOB-2, checking for coolant fluid hermeticity (leak-tightness).
 
After temporarily configuring the STTS communication system for crew presence (voice comm) in the MRM2 (Mini Research Module 2) Poisk, Gennady Padalka reviewed &amp; set up the equipment for another active session with the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), then conducted the session, supported by ground specialist tagup.  Sergei took documentary photography.  STTS was then reconfigured to nominal.  Another experiment session is scheduled tomorrow.          [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
Revin completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Sergei also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Oleg Kononenko had a major part of his workday (~3.5 hrs) assigned to taking noise measurements in the SM with the Potok air purification assembly activated and deactivated.
 
Joe Acaba reviewed briefing material and procedures for the BASS (Burning and Suppression of Solids) pyrometry experiment in the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) facility, scheduled tomorrow for his first session.        [BASS uses SLICE (Structure &amp; Liftoff In Combustion Experiment) equipment but burns solid fuel samples instead of gaseous jets.  Each sample will be ignited several times for study.  Today’s steps included fan calibration before the operations to evaluate the air flow with a new fan flow constrictor, installed by Don on 3/26.  Between flame tests, Don exchanged samples plus burner tube and changed still camera setup.  Purpose of today’s initial run: to determine camera settings for future tests.  PI (Principal Investigator) stood by to assist with the burn and extinction of the flame.  At the end, Pettit exchanged digital tapes in the MSG VTRs (Video Tape Recorders) 1 &amp; 2.]
 
Joe also had an hour of free time for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization &amp; acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.
 
The Soyuz 30S crew, Padalka, Acaba &amp; Revin, undertook the one-hour medical contingency OBT (Onboard Training) drill gives crewmembers the opportunity to work as a team in resolving a simulated medical emergency onboard ISS. This training refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment use, and procedures of medical emergency procedures (such as for nose bleed or eye injury), hardware deployment locations and practicing CPR delivery in zero-G.      [The recorded video with audio commentary is desired for ground training purposes.  The G1 camcorder was used to record audio/video during the drill for subsequent playback on the MPC.]
 
Sergei continued the current round of periodic preventive maintenance of RS ventilation systems, cleaning “Group B” fan screens in the SM.
 
André Kuipers reconfigured stowage goods in ER-3 (EXPRESS Rack 3) in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) at bays A1_B1, B2, D2 to make space for the ALTEA payload.       [Removed &amp; relocated were Lockers 1, 5, 6.]
 
André also relocated 5 CWCs (Contingency Water Containers) from their location at the Lab “Water Wall” (loc. P1) to Node-2 (D2) to make them more conveniently retrievable in the future by Russian crewmembers.
 
Acaba &amp; Pettit had another hour for more U.S. E-30/E-31 “knowledge handover” activities.
 
Don had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in his electronic Journal on the personal SSC.    [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Before Presleep, Pettit will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Don turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3, FE-5), and VELO bike ergometer with load trainer (CDR, FE-1).        [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.  Today’s exercise called for ARED+CEVIS (VO<sub>2</sub>max), with T2 (aerobic/interval), ARED+T2 (resistive+aerobic/continuous) and CEVIS (aerobic/interval) following in the next 3 days.] 
 
After his T2 session, André Kuipers closed down the T2 software on its laptop for data transfer, then turned off the T2 display.     [After the display shutdown, the T2 rack is power cycled (turned off/on) from the ground, and T2 is then ready for use.  These power cycles allow for the T2 data to be transferred to the Server for downlink.] 
 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

