
Payloads:
Astrobee/AstroSee-2: The crew relocated stowed items out of the experiment area and assisted with the performance of an AstroSee session. AstroSee demonstrates technology for autonomous spacecraft docking using the Astrobee free-flying robot platform. More information on this investigation can be found here.
Immunity Assay: The crew gathered the experiment hardware and set up the Kubik incubators to prepare for a science session later this week. The experiment looks at cellular immune functions using a functional immune test performed on board ISS. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Sleep In Orbit: The crew concluded Monday night’s science session and initiated another science session Tuesday night. These sessions occur overnight during the crew’s sleep, and use electroencephalography (EEG) to study electrical signals in the brain. More information on the Sleep in Orbit experiment can be found here.
Standard Measures (SM): The crew completed their SM presleep questionnaires. SM uses sample collections and the questionnaires to help characterize the adaptive responses to and risks from living and working in space. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Camera Light Pan/Tilt Assembly (CLPA) Remove & Replace (R&R): After beginning robotic operations yesterday, the ground team completed the CLPA R&R early this morning. Robotic ground controllers performed a 3-way CLPA swap between the degraded Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body 2 Camera, Mobile Base System (MBS) Mast Camera, and the new Replacement Camera (RCAM).
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the three upcoming EVAs in June. They completed activities to prepare the Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs), such as Equipment Lock Preparation, an EMU Swap, and a Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Powered Hardware Checkout. The crew also completed a Retractable Equipment Tether (RET) Inspect, EVA Tool Configuring, and an EVA Procedure Conference with the ground team. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval Part 2.5 EVA, CP9 External High-Definition Camera (EHDC) R&R EVA, and ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) 2A Preparation EVA.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Optical Coherence Tomography 2 (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
