
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-M-2 Sample Start: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman configured the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) in the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) and inserted the second sample for an ACE-M-2 investigation run. In the ACE-M-2 investigation, a model colloidal system is used to observe the microscopic behavior of liquids and gases separating from each other, near the critical point, via a process called spinodal decomposition.
Ocular Health: Wiseman assisted Commander (CDR) Swanson and FE-6 Gerst in taking ultrasound images of their eyes.  All three USOS crewmembers took cardiac echo measurements of each other as part of the Ocular Health data collection.  The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement.  The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Microbiome: Gerst collected blood and saliva samples for his Flight Day (FD) 7 Microbiome session. The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
EVA Mobility unit (EMU) 3010 Return to Service:  EMU 3010 is being returned to service via a series of activities this week. Today Swanson installed a cable to both the EMU radio and antenna. Tomorrow he will perform a series of checkouts to determine if the EMU is ready for use.
Hardware Control Panel (HCP) Setup:  As part of Launch Commit Criteria (LCC), today Gerst set up the HCP in the Japanese Pressurized Module (JPM) in preparation for Cygnus Orbital-2 arrival planned for later this month.  The HCP will be used if a manual abort is required during Cygnus rendezvous.
Pumping from USOS Urine Containers [ЕДВ-У] to 53Progress (53P) Tanks:  Today, the Russian crew was supposed to pump 6 ЕДВ-Уs into the 53P Rodnik tanks.  They were only able to pump 2 ЕДВ-Уs.  The Russian team is evaluating why the additonal ЕДВ-Уs did not fit.

