
SpaceX Demo-2 Launch: This weekend, marked the historic launch of the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket and Crew Dragon spacecraft carrying NASA astronauts Douglas Hurley and Robert Behnken on NASA’s SpaceX Demo-2 mission. The vehicle successfully launched from Launch Complex 39A at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center on Saturday, May 30 at 2:22pm CT.  Crew Dragon successfully docked to the International Space Station on Sunday, May 31 at 9:27 am CT. 
Payloads 
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF):  The crew made the appropriate gas line and valve configuration changes to transition ELF for Argon use.  The NASA Round Robin experiment, which begins later this week, will use Argon during the sample processing in the ELF facility.  The Round Robin – Thermophysical Property Measurement (Round Robin) investigation provides researchers with a better understanding of how to measure liquid metal properties to revolutionize how process modeling can support design, flight qualification and production of advanced spaceflight systems.
JEM Airlock (JEMAL):  The crew assisted with the depressurization of the JEMAL.  This is part of the ops needed to prepare for the installation of the external JAXA iSIM experiment in the coming weeks.  The integrated Standard Imager for Microsatellites (iSIM), is a high-resolution optical binocular telescope developed by SATLANTIS. The objective of this experiment is to demonstrate the technology, and its functionality, in the low-Earth orbit environment.
The ISS Experience: The ground successfully transferred the files from this weekend’s recording.  They also elected to perform some troubleshooting on connectivity issues they’ve been experiencing with the Station Support Computer (SSC) used for the data transfer.  The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Systems 
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)9 Cargo Operations: Today, the crew performed HTV9 cargo transfer operations and will continue to work on HTV9 cargo operations throughout the week.
Crew Dragon Arrival Operations: The crew performed several activities to configure the vehicle for post-docking operations. The crew performed a communication check between the Crew Dragon and Soyuz vehicle. They transferred a payload locker from Crew Dragon to ISS and transferred emergency response equipment from ISS to Crew Dragon. The Crew Dragon is now configured for safe haven response. Finally, all USOS crew participated in a debrief conference which allowed the team to provide comments and discuss feedback concerning the Demo-2 mission to date.
Crew Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew began cargo transfer operations by unloading cargo from Crew Dragon.  There are approximately 2 hours remaining to unpack and transfer cargo to the ISS.

