
SpaceX-22 Cargo Dragon Launch: Today, SpaceX-22 Cargo Dragon launched on the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket from LC- 39A at Kennedy Space Center, Florida at 12:29 PM CT and is set to dock to the ISS on Saturday, June 5 at 4:13 AM CT. The Crew will be off-duty tomorrow in preparation for SpaceX-22’s arrival where they will unload various science experiments that will study how water bears tolerate space, whether microgravity affects symbiotic relationships, analyzing the formation of kidney stones, and more.
Payloads:
AC Touch: Per standard procedure, the crew touched both the coated and uncoated coupons for this long-term investigation.  Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Food Acceptability: Using the data collection tool an available SSC (Station Support Computer), the crew filled out their Food Acceptability Surveys.  This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
ManD: The crew accessed the Manufacturing Device (ManD) print volume, removed the latest printed object, cleaned the extruder print nozzle, took photos and stowed the printed object.  The Manufacturing Device enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the ManD printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. ManD is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
RTPCG-2 plate load: The crew loaded the plate C1, row B wells with protein solutions and salt solutions to begin the next series of protein crystallization RTPCG-2 experiments.  The plate was then transferred to a Space Automated Bioproduct Laboratory (SABL) where the crystals can develop over the next 7 days.  Phase II Real-time Protein Crystal Growth on Board the International Space Station (RTPCG-2) demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity can sometimes produce high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 tests high-quality proteins crystals for detailed analysis back on Earth.
TICTOC (Targeting Improved Cotton Through On-orbit Cultivation): The crew reviewed the procedures to prepare for the TICTOC experiment, which arrives on SpX-22.  Target, the retail store, is funding the investigation Targeting Improved Cotton Through On-orbit Cultivation (TICTOC) that studies how root system architecture affects plant resilience to stress, water-use efficiency, and carbon sequestration during the critical phase of seedling establishment. Roots play a central role in plant stress resistance and survival, but their growth patterns depend upon gravity. This investigation examines how environmental factors and genes control development of roots in the absence of gravity.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed several activities in preparation for the ISS 2B IROSA EVA. The crew reviewed procedures, charged and installed EVA batteries and performed   an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop scrubs. Additionally, the crew completed an EMU Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) checkout and EVA retractable equipment tether inspection. The ISS 2B IROSA EVA is scheduled for Wednesday, June 16th.
SpaceX-22 docking preparations: the crew reviewed Cargo Dragon cargo operations in preparation for SpX-22’s arrival. They also had a conference with ISS ground teams to discuss upcoming docking/cargo activities. The crew will work on Saturday to unload time critical experiments after SpX-22 docks.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) In Flight Maintenance (IFM): As part of regularly scheduled preventative maintenance, the crew performed a manual WHC flush tank fill.  By using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as the burp, they depressurized the flush water tank and water valve block to protect the dose pump. This pump is critical as it injects the pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine.
Ultrasound Eye Exam: Today the crew used an ultrasound device to perform an eye scan, the first of several routine ultrasound eye exams during their stay on ISS. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmember’s eye health.  Eyesight is one of many aspects of the human body affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.

