
Payloads:
Advanced Nano Step: The Advanced Nano Step specimen cell was removed from the Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF) and installed in Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator (MERLIN). The Effects of Impurities on Perfection of Protein Crystals, Partition Functions, and Growth Mechanisms (Advanced Nano Step) experiment monitors and records how the incorporation of specific impurity molecules affect the development and quality of protein crystals, as they grow in a quartz cell aboard the ISS. The crystals grown on the ISS are returned to Earth and characterized using synchrotron X-ray diffraction. The protein crystal and impurity interactions are managed and monitored jointly by both scientists on the ground and the ISS crew.
Cardiobreath: While wearing the Bio-Monitor hardware, the crew performed a CEVIS exercise session and other activities related to the Cardiobreath experiment. To gain efficiency, this Cardiobreath session was combined with Space Health, which also uses the Bio-Monitor system. Astronauts experience changes in their cardiovascular, respiratory, and musculoskeletal systems during spaceflight, which can affect their capacity to exercise and to maintain blood pressure when standing after return to Earth. Causal Analysis of Cardiorespiratory Coupling on the ISS (Cardiobreath) studies the combined effects of cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations on blood pressure regulation during spaceflight. Results could provide a better understanding of the mechanisms of these adaptations on long-duration missions and support development of methods for assessing cardiovascular and respiratory effects on blood pressure before and after spaceflight.
Immunity Assay: Sample processing was performed for an Immunity Assay science session, which spans multiple days. The Monitoring the Cellular Immunity by In Vitro Delayed Type Hypersensitivity (DTH) Assay on the ISS (Immunity Assay) investigation aims to monitor the impact of spaceflight stressors on cellular immune functions in a sample, with the help of a functional immune test. Until now, this test could only be accomplished on Earth, and conducted pre- and postflight. With the help of a newly developed assay tube, researchers can also execute this test inflight, which allows for a much clearer assessment of the immune changes that happen in flight.
Plasma Kristall-4: The crew reviewed the Familiarization session for the upcoming campaign 16 and installed the video monitor. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between ESA and the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), performing research in the field of Complex Plasmas: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles. The micro-particles become highly charged in the plasma and interact strongly with each other, which can lead to a self-organized structure of the micro-particles: so-called plasma crystals. Experiments in the facility aim to study transport properties, thermodynamics, kinetics and statistical physics, and non-linear waves and instabilities in the plasmas.
Ring Sheared Drop-Interfacial Bioprocessing of Pharmaceuticals (RSD-IBP): The crew removed the processed sample 27 and its test cell then installed the next sample to be processed. The ground team will later command the deployment of a large drop of liquid (up to 25mm in diameter) into the system for processing. RSD is a containerless liquid system that makes it possible to study protein solutions without the effects of interactions with solid walls. RSD-IBP studies the behavior of high-concentration protein fluids and tests computer models for predicting that behavior. More accurate models could enable production of next-generation medicines for treating cancers and other diseases.
Space Health: The last day of the 48-hour Space Health session was performed. The Autonomous Health Monitoring for Adaption Assessment on Long Range Missions Using Big Data Analytic (Space Health) investigation utilizes the Bio-Monitor system for physiological monitoring before, during, and after an ISS mission to assess the effect of space travel on heart health. The Artemis analytical platform is used to provide automated analysis of the cardiovascular system in order to develop a near real-time assessment tool. The potential use of the Bio-Monitor system and the Artemis platform for future space missions is being evaluated.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Activities: In preparation for the ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) 1A/1B EVAs this month, the crew prepared the equipment lock and EVA Mobility Units (EMUs) for suit donning. The crew then performed an On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV) with one crewmember donning the suit and another crewmember assisting. IROSA is a modification to the existing Solar Array Wings (SAWs), providing additional power to the station.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Node 3 Trace Contaminant Control Subsystem (TCCS) Charcoal Bed Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, after reaching its documented end of life, the crew removed and replaced the Node 3 TCCS Charcoal Bed. TCCS provides a means to remove both low and high molecular weight gaseous contaminants present in the atmosphere due to equipment off-gassing and crew metabolic processes.
Dragon Cargo Operations Conference: In preparation for the arrival of SpaceX-28 Cargo Dragon planned for early next week, the crew conducted a cargo operations conference with the ground team. The crew familiarized themselves with the location coding within Dragon, reviewed specific large cargo of interest, and discussed an overview of cargo transfer choreography. Among the cargo launched on SpaceX-28 Cargo Dragon will be two IROSA assemblies which will be installed during EVAs later this month.
