
SpaceX (SpX)-11 Launch Delay: Yesterday’s planned SpX-11 launch was scrubbed due to weather. Launch is now planned for tomorrow, Saturday, June 3 at 4:07pm CDT with capture and berthing on Monday, June 5th at 6:00am CDT. The vehicle will deliver 3,900 pounds of research experiments, food, crew provisions and exercise equipment. Unberth is currently planned for July 2.
49 Soyuz (49S) Undock: 49S, with Thomas Pesquet and Oleg Novitskiy onboard, undocked today at 5:45am CDT and landed in Kazakhstan at 9:10am CDT. The ISS will be in 3-crew operations until the arrival of 51S on July 28. 
Orbital 7 (OA-7) Unberth: Due to the delay of SpX-11 launch on Thursday, SpX-11 is planned to berth to the ISS on Monday instead of Sunday. This delay allows OA-7 to unberth on Sunday, June 4 at 8:10am. In preparation, the crew completed a Robotics On-Board Trainer (RoBOT) session to practice 3 release runs.
Human Research Program:  With assistance from an operator, blood samples were taken from a 50S crewmember and stowed at ambient temperature for return on 49S.  This sample will support the functional Immune investigation which analyzes blood and saliva samples to determine the changes taking place in crewmembers’ immune systems during flight. Results are expected to provide new insight into the possible health risks of long-duration space travel.
JAXA Protein Crystal Growth (PCG): The crew removed PCG canister bags from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) and canisters from the Protein Crystallization Research Facility (PCRF) in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) and handed them over to a Russian crewmember for return on 49S. High quality protein crystals were produced in the microgravity environment on the ISS for about 6 weeks from samples provided by Russian and Japanese researchers from universities, national research institutes, and the private sector. The results of this experiment may contribute to the development of drugs for multidrug-resistant bacteria, Alzheimer’s disease, muscular dystrophy and periodontitis. They will also aid in the development of a blood substitute and biosensor. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) which was maneuvered to capture the Cygnus Power Video Grapple Fixture (PVGF). SSRMS will stay grappled to Cygnus until Sunday when Cygnus will be unberthed and released.

