ISS On-Orbit Status 06/19/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
After wakeup, Oleg Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Joe Acaba, André Kuipers &amp; Don Pettit completed their weekly post-sleep session of the Reaction Self-Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self-Test on the ISS) protocol, the 9<sup>th</sup> for Joe, the 49<sup>th</sup> for Don &amp; André.      [RST is done twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
Before breakfast &amp; exercise, FE-4 Kononenko &amp; FE-5 Kuipers each completed a 10-min session with the periodic Russian MedOps test MO-10 "Hematokrit", which measures the red cell count of the blood, with one of them acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer, Russian: “Examiner”).  Oleg then stowed the equipment.  It was the 4<sup>th</sup> session for both of them.       [The blood samples were drawn from a finger with a perforator lancet, then centrifuged in two microcapillary tubes in the M-1100 kit's minicentrifuge, and its Hematocrit value was read off the tubes with a magnifying glass.  It is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell count (normal range: 30-45%) tends to go down over time.  After the exam, the data were saved in the IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).]
 
Gennady Padalka monitored &amp; photographed the running “Physics-Phase” demo of the Russian educational experiment OBR-1/Fizika-Obrazovaniye.  Later in the day, he repeated the photography and then closed out the experiment.      [Obrazovaniye (Education) is a suite of three educational demonstrations of physics in micro-G, viz., OBR-1-1/”Fizika-LT” (Motion), OBR-1-2/”Fizika-Faza” (Phase) and OBR-1-3/”Fizika-Otolit”.  The current “Phase” demo studies a complete gas-liquid phase separation of fine dispersion particles in micro-G with diffusion and surface tension of the fluid.  The experiment is conducted over several days, documented with photography.]
 
Working in the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), FE-3 Acaba supported JAXA in servicing the JEMRMS (JEM Robotic Manipulator System).      [Activities included turning on and confirming activation of the JEMRMS RLT (Robotics Laptop) and RMS Monitor for the ground to upload a file to the SSEDSU semiconductor memory unit in the JEMRMS console, plus installing and checking it out.  RLT and RMS monitor were then turned off again.  Next, Joe reconfigured connections and activated the BUC (Backup Controller) to likewise enable file uplink to BUC and installation of a data base for SFA (Small Fine Arm) function checkout contingency via the C&amp;C MDM (Command &amp; Control Multiplexer/Demultiplexer).  Afterwards, BUC was powered off again.]
 
Also in the Kibo module, Acaba performed the planned coolant refill IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the ITCS (Internal Thermal Control System), one of several jobs on his JPM ITCS task list.      [Activities included closing the TCA L (Thermal Control Assembly for Low Temperature Loop) gas trap bypass manual valve, then using the FSS (Fluid System Servicer) device to perform the first (of two) coolant refills of the MTL (Moderate Temperature Loop) accumulator.  Afterwards, Joe gathered the necessary hardware for the AmiA (Anti-Microbial Applicator) installation to replenish the OPA (O-Phthalaldehyde) levels in the JEM ITCS loops, the second MTL accumulator refill and subsequent samplings scheduled later in the week.]
 
In Node-3, FE-3 completed the EHS TOCA (Environmental Health System Total Organic Carbon Analyzer) calibration started by Pettit yesterday, today calibrating with the High TOC bag.        [Yesterday, Don had configured the system for calibration with two calibration bags,- one with known total organic carbon contents (High TOC), the other with known inorganic carbon (Low TOC/TIC), and then conducted the first of two successive calibration runs, each one taking approximately 2 hrs.] 
 
FE-2 Revin completed the routine verification of yesterday’s automated refreshes of the IUS AntiVirus program on all Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2.     [Antivirus update procedures have changed since the SSCV4 software update some time ago.  Before the installation on 8/8/11 of the new automated procedure, the refresh was done manually on Mondays on RSS2, copying the files to the RSS2 service folder, then launching update scripts on the network laptops RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 and finally manually updating non-network laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1.  On Tuesdays, the anti-virus scanning results are regularly verified on all laptops.  Nominally, Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
FE-5 Kuipers used the EHS (Environmental Health Systems) Water Kit to conducted periodic water sampling from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) in Node-3 from the Hot port for microbial inflight (125 mL) &amp; TOCA inflight (250 mL) analysis.        [The samples were subsequently processed in the MCD (Microbial Capture Device) and CDB (Coliform Detection Bag) from the U.S. WMK (water microbiology kit) for treatment/processing after no more than 6 hours of the collection (with results available in two days), and in the TOCA analyzer.  After the approximately 2-hr TOCA analysis, results were transferred to the SSC-5 (Station Support Computer 5) laptop via USB drive for downlink, and the data were also logged.]
 
For his on-going 5<sup>th</sup> (R-15) Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular), FE-6 Pettit reached midpoint at about 12:30pm EDT, after which he began the second 24h data collection period, with Makita batteries swapped and recharged during the day.       [For the second 24 hr period, the Cardiopres was temporarily doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months).  (ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.)]
 
Don also reviewed procedures and videos for tomorrow’s scheduled assembly and installation of the Amine Swingbed hardware in ER-8 (EXPRESS Rack 8), Locker 3 &amp; 4, then gathered the necessary equipment &amp; tools and prepared the payload MWA MSA (Maintenance Work Area Work Surface Area)
 
In the JAXA Kibo module, André Kuipers prepared for supporting upcoming ground-controlled Marangoni research activities in the FPEF (Fluid Physics Experiment Facility) by reviewing procedures for MI (Marangoni Inside) payload ops, then transferring &amp; installing the MS MWA I/F A &amp; B (Marangoni / Maintenance Work Area / Interfaces A &amp; B) with MI Core and MI Body on MWA.
 
Sergei Revin completed his 2<sup>nd</sup> session with the Russian behavioral assessment TIPOLOGIA (MBI-20), setting up the workstation, connecting equipment, suiting up and launching the program on the RSK1 laptop.       [FE-1 Padalka stood by to assist Sergei in donning the electrode cap, preparing the head for the electrodes and applying electrode gel from the Neurolab-RM2 kit plus taking documentary photography.  Data were recorded on a PCMCIA memory card and downlinked via OCA comm.  MBI-20 studies typological features of operator activity of the ISS crews in long-term space flight phases, with the subject using a cap with EEG (electroencephalogram) electrodes.  The experiment, which records EEGs, consists of the Lüscher test, “adaptive biological control” training, and the games Minesweeper and Tetris.  The Lüscher color diagnostic is a psychological test which measures a person's psychophysical state, his/her ability to withstand stress, to perform and to communicate.  It is believed to help uncover the cause of psychological stress, which can lead to physical symptoms.  An EEG measures and records the electrical activity of the brain.]
 
In the MRM2 Poisk module, Gennady Padalka continued the twice-daily checking of vacuum/pressure conditions in the Plasma Chamber of the Russian KPT-21 PK-3+ Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall-3 plus) Telescience payload for upcoming operations.       [The PK-3+ equipment comprises the EB (Eksperimental’nyj Blok) Experiment Module with a turbopump for evacuation, Ts laptop, video monitor, vacuum hoses, electrical circuitry, four hard storage disks for video, and one USB stick with the control application.]
 
Later, after the vacuum/pressure integrity check, Padalka ran his 2<sup>nd</sup> experiment session with the KPT-21 payload.  With the ZB vacuum chamber in the SM RO (Work Compartment) evacuated by the turbopump in the SM PkhO (Transfer Compartment), Gennady conducted the semi-automated (manually assisted) PK-3 operations while Oleg Kononenko monitored the TV downlink via MPEG-2 stream and Ku-band for proper function.  The run was terminated after two hours and the accumulated data transferred from hard disk to USB stick for subsequent downlinking.       [The KPT-21 activities were supported by ground specialists and monitored by them via video packet streaming over the network which temporarily slowed down wireless SSCs (Station Support Computers) in the ISS.  Today’s experiment was performed on plasma with fine particles (1.55 µm) in neon charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber.  Main objective is to study crystallization dynamics at constant argon pressures (10 Pa) exposed to thermophoretic force (superimposed electrical field of low-frequency and varied voltage).]
 
CDR Kononenko had several hours set aside for the periodic inspection and photography of RS (Russian Segment) windows #01 and #12.        [Objective of the inspection, which uses a digital still camera (Nikon D2X w/SB-28DX flash) and voice recorder, is to assess the pane surfaces on RS for any changes (new cavities, scratches, new or expanded old stains or discolorations affecting transparency properties) since the last inspection.  The new assessment will be compared to the earlier observations.  Defects are measured with the parallax method which uses eyeball-sighting with a ruler and a right isosceles triangle to determine the defects' size and position with respect to the window's internal surface (parallax being the apparent change in an object's position resulting from changing the observer's position).]
 
Performing IFM on the ECLSS UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) in Node-3, Don Pettit hooked up the RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) in the WRS2 (Water Recovery System 2) rack for the periodic tank backfill with a QD (Quick Disconnect) hose for processing, then closed out the worksite.
 
Padalka &amp; Revin completed another collection session for the psychological MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”) program, accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was Gennady’s 3<sup>rd</sup>, Sergei’s 2<sup>nd</sup> time.       [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
FE-2 inspected, checked integrity and took situational photography of a BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system temperature sensor (TM168-04) on the LKT1G2 unit in the DC1 Docking Compartment for analysis of the sensor which has exhibited inaccurate temperature readings.
 
Later, Sergei completed another 30-min. session for the DZZ-13 (Distantsionnoye zondirovaniye zemli/Remote Sensing of Earth-13) “Seiner” ocean observation program, obtaining SONY HDV-Z7E camcorder footage of color bloom patterns in the waters of the Central-Eastern Atlantic, then copying the images to the RSK-1 laptop.
 
Joe performed Part 2 of checkout &amp; activation Part 2 on all 45P-delivered CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units (1042, 1044, 1050, 1051), today zero-calibrating their combustion sensors.     [Part 1 had been completed on 6/15.]
 
Working from the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, FE-1 Padalka completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
The CDR took care of the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
The Russian crewmembers had ~90 min blocked out for another standard “symbolic” activity with commemorative items, today cancelling 110 ATV-3 “Eduardo Amaldi” envelopes (of 600 delivered) with an ISS RS stamp with current date plus the octagonal ISS stamp. 
 
Kononenko &amp; Kuipers had another hour set aside each for personal crew departure preparations which are standard pre-return procedures for crewmembers.
 
Before Presleep, Pettit will turn on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Don turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
Before sleeptime, Sergei Revin will prepare the Russian MBI-12 payload and start a session with the 5<sup>th</sup> Sonokard experiment, using a sports shirt from the Sonokard kit with a special device in the pocket for testing a new method for acquiring physiological data without using direct contact on the skin.  Measurements are recorded on a data card for return to Earth.  It’s Sergei’s 2<sup>nd</sup> session.       [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
Acaba &amp; Pettit had a time slot/placeholder reserved each for making entries in their electronic Journals on the personal SSC.    [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
CDR, FE-1 &amp; FE-2 had their standard weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Gennady at ~12:50pm, Oleg at ~1:25pm, Sergei at ~2:25pm EDT.
 
At ~11:45am, EDT, Kononenko, Pettit &amp; Kuipers held a teleconference with personnel of the Russian GPSK Search-and-Rescue (SAR) forces who will support their return on 7/1.
 
At ~12:10pm EDT, Joe, Don &amp; André supported two PAO TV interviews, downlinking their responses to questions from Fox Business News, New York, NY (Connell McShane), and the American Geophysical Union, Washington, DC (Mary Catherine Adams).
 
At ~3:30pm, Revin, Padalka &amp; Kononenko are scheduled for three Russian PAO TV events, to downlink messages of greetings to (1) Moscow Region School Graduates being awarded Excellence in Learning medals, (2) the 30<sup>th</sup> Anniversary of the First Joint Russian-French Space Flight, and (3) Baikonur Cosmodrome High School Graduates.      [Gold and silver medals for Excellence in Learning will be awarded to graduates on 6/25 at the XVII Gubernatorial ball celebration in Podolsk Vityaz Ice Palace.  The first Russian-French space mission, flown by Vladimir Dzhanibekov, Alexander Ivanchenko and Jean-Louis Chrétien to Salyut-7, will be celebrated on 6/26 at the Russian Embassy in Paris, France.]    
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR/2x, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5), and VELO bike ergometer with load trainer (FE-2).        [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.] 
 
Robotics Operations:   Over the next 3 days/nights the Canadian ground team will operate the SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) &amp; SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator) to perform Part 2 Robotic Refueling Mission (RRM) payload operations.  Activities will focus on the CVP (Coolant Valve Panel) on top of the RRM, first removal of a T-Valve and Ambient Cap, then manipulation of a plug located below it (moving it axially up and down).  The SPDM is equipped with the MFT of the SPDM uses three adapters for these tasks.
 
CDRA Troubleshooting:  On Saturday (6/16), the Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly in the US Lab experienced a hardware failure and shutdown due to irregular readings on Bed 2 Temperature sensor C.  This is the same sensor that the crew connected back into the system last week.  The CDRA was recovered Sunday morning, but the temperature sensor has been behaving erratically.  Specialists are discussing future troubleshooting scenarios. 
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Harare, Zimbabwe (Capital Cities Collection: The capital city of Zimbabwe is located in the open woodlands of the high plateau region in the north-central part of the country.  ISS had an early afternoon pass in clear weather with its approach from the SW.   At this time the crew was to begin looking left of track for single-frame views of the low-contrast urban area of about 1.6 million.  Best visual cues may be the reservoirs due W/SW of the city on the Manyame River), Urumqi, China (Capital Cities Collection: ISS had an early evening pass over the capital city of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of China in fair weather.  As it tracked NE over the Taklimakan Desert, the crew was to aim left of track just north of the Tian Shan Mountains to spot Urumqi.  This city has over 2.7 million people and is the largest city in China’s western interior), Mount Vesuvius, Italy (this 4,203 ft stratovolcano of Pompeii fame remains a threat to the nearby urban area of Naples in southern Italy.  ISS approach was from the SW in early afternoon with clear weather expected.  Looking nadir for this feature as ISS approached the coast), Podgorica, Montenegro (Capital Cities Collection:  This small capital city of just over 150,000 is located at the confluence of the Ribnica and Moraca Rivers in the southern part of the country known as the Zeta plain.  ISS had a pass in clear weather with its approach from the SW.  At this time as the crew approached the east coast of the Adriatic Sea, they were to look right of track to acquire views of this target), and Belgrade, Serbia (Capital Cities Collection:  ISS had a morning pass with clear weather expected for this target.  As the crew approach from the SW, they were to look left of track for Belgrade.  This historic capital city of about 1.25 million is located in an intensely agricultural area at the confluence of the Sava and Danube Rivers.  Trying to capture the entire city with a 180mm lens.
 

