
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Fastener Coating and Configuration Change: The CBEF Micro-G configuration was changed to support the Mouse Epigenetics experiment and the fasteners inside the CBEF were coated with material to prevent corrosion. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility located in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack. It  is used in various life science experiments, such as cultivating cells and plants in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) and consists of an incubator and control equipment for control and communications.
 
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) #1-2 Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers used the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Small Fine Arm (SFA) to retrieve ExHAM #1-2. ExHAM #1-2 is the first return and sample exchange mission of the 1-year exposed ExHAM#1, and currently contains 17 samples, 14 of which will be returned on SpX-9. ExHAM is a cuboid mechanism equipped with a fixture on the upper surface for grappling by the JEMRMS SFA and has components on the under surface for attaching the ExHAM to the handrail on the Exposed Facility.
 
ReEntry Breakup Recorder – Wireless (REBR-W) OA-6 Activation and Installation: The crew activated and installed the REBR-W, remote sensor units 1 – 4 and the acoustic sensor. REBR is a cost-effective system that rides a re-entering space vehicle, records data during the re-entry and breakup of the vehicle, and returns the data for analysis. Understanding how vehicles behave during atmospheric reentry gives future spacecraft developers unique information that can enhance design efficiencies and safety.
 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Microbial Air and Surface Sampling: The crew took surface and air samples for microbial analysis using the Microbial Air Sampler (MAS) with Petri Dishes. The EHS monitors the atmosphere for gaseous contaminants (i.e., from nonmetallic materials off-gassing, combustion products, and propellants), microbial contaminants (i.e., from crewmembers and Station activities), water quality, acoustics, and radiation levels.
 
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the International Space Station. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
 
Crew Quarters (CQ) Deck Cleaning: The crew removed and temporarily stowed all applicable panels from the CQ and cleaned the intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors. They reported there was no significant dust buildup.
 
Cygnus Departure Prep: In preparation for Cygnus unberth and departure, the crew installed the Air Revitalization System (ARS), de-routed the Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) duct, removed handrails and completed radial port closeout and closed the hatch. They installed N1 Nadir Control Panel Assembly (CPA) and configured Cygnus/N1 vestibule for de-mate. They also relocated the Portable Computer System and cables from the N2 Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) to the Cupola UOP which will provide command redundancy during departure operations. Unberth is scheduled for tomorrow at 6:30AM CDT with release at 8:30 CDT.
 
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Process Fault and Waste Water Quantity Tank Decrease – Last night the WPA shut down due to an internal fault.  The previous ocurrence of this fault was recovered with a WPA power cycle.  During data review following the fault, an unrelated and unexpected drop in the waste water quantity was found.  WPA remained in standby overnight.  This morning ground teams determined that the waste water quantity drop is consistent with air in the system.  Following a crew-actuated purge, ground controllers will command WPA back to process following the next Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) process run tonight.
 

