
Airway Monitoring: The crew located the hardware and reviewed the Big Picture Words in preparation for the Airway Monitoring ambient pressure session activities later this week. The primary goals of the experiment is to determine how gravity and microgravity influence the turnover of Nitric Oxide in the lungs. During future manned missions to the Moon and to Mars, airway inflammation due to toxic dust inhalation is a risk factor. Since dust may cause airway inflammation and since such inflammation can be monitored by exhaled Nitric Oxide analysis the present study is highly relevant for astronaut health in future space programs.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF) Configuration: The crew removed the ELF hardware and connected the software upload cable to perform the planned software upgrade which is designed to improve the function of the ELF. JAXA’s ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.  ELF typically processes oxide samples, but is also capable of processing semiconductors, alloys, and metals.
Food Acceptability: The crew completed the Food Acceptability questionnaires. This investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
Radi-N2: Following the planned week of detector deployment, a USOS crewmember retrieved the detectors and handed them over to a Russian crewmember for processing.  The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Veg-04A Pillow Prime and Plant Thinning: The crew performed plant thinning and pillow priming activities.  The plant thinning activity removed all but one plant from each pillow, leaving the largest seedling in each plant pillow to continue growing. In order to ensure successful germination of at least one seed, the ground plants multiple seeds in each of the plant pillows. The plant pillow prime activity adds water to support continued hydration of the plants. Veg-04A is a Human Research Program sponsored experiment which will grow Mizuna mustard, a leafy green crop, for 28 days under two different light quality treatments.  The Pick-and-Eat Salad-Crop Productivity, Nutritional Value, and Acceptability to Supplement the ISS Food System (Veg-04A, Veg-04B, and Veg-05) investigation is a phased research project to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS for the first time using MSS 9.3 software.  The Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) was walked off from Node 2 to Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 1. The SSRMS was maneuvered to the Latching End Effector (LEE) B survey position and performed snare cable surveys as well as LEE checkout and diagnostics. Today and tomorrow, snare cable surveys of LEE A and Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) LEE will be performed.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Starboard Cleaning: The crew performed this scheduled maintenance to clean intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors. Pre-cleaning photos were taken throughout the procedure to help evaluate the effectiveness of the recently installed inlet screens.

