
ISS Reboost: Friday, the ISS performed a reboost using the SM Aft 87P R&D thrusters at 11:40 PM CDT. This is one in a series of reboosts to set up proper phasing conditions for Progress 89P launch in August. The burn duration was 23 minutes 25 seconds with a delta-V of 2.0 m/s.
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): Over the last three days, the CFT crew completed various tasks specific to CFT and to assist the ISS crew. On Saturday, the CFT crew completed an Operational Capability Checkout (OCC) Safe Haven Test, CFT Thruster Hot Fire Test support, and a Communication Head Protection Assembly (CHPA) Repair. On Sunday, the CFT crew completed a Crew Health Care Systems (CHeCS) Locker Audit, Food Consolidate, Uneaten Food Audit, T2 Snubber Cup Liner Remove and Replace (R&R), Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey, Lab 1 Deck 1 Integrated Station LAN (ISL) Interface Panel Cover Build, and Contingency Water Container (CWC) Bag Gathering. Today, the CFT crew completed an Acoustic Monitor Modified Noise Survey, Columbus High-Definition Video Camera Assembly (HD-VCA2), Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) 6-Month Maintenance, Gaucho Lung Operations, and Plant Habitat Operations.
Payloads:
Cardiobreath: The crew performed hardware setup and recorded Cardiobreath data during a Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Exercise. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Gaucho Lung: Gaucho Lung sample 7 was processed, with runs of wicking and pushback using the syringe pump. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Materials Science Research Rack/Material Science Lab-Sample Cartridge Assembly Batch 3a (MSRR/MSL SCA-Batch-3a): The old Low Gradient Furnace (LGF) sample (MICAST3#9) was removed and the next sample (CETSOL3 #7) was installed. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Plant Habitat: Water was filled into the facility refill bag and reservoirs in preparation for upcoming system testing. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Plant UV-B: The Water Bag was retrieved from plant experiment unit in preparation of experiment operations.  More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
CFT Thruster Hot Fire Test: On Saturday, the CFT crew monitored while the ground team performed hot fire tests of seven of the eight aft-facing Reaction Control System (RCS) thrusters.
Universal Waste Management System (UWMS) Troubleshooting: On May 15th, following its installation, the UWMS did not show nominal readings when primed. After ground team discussion, the crew completed troubleshooting steps in an attempt to bring the UWMS back to nominal operations by swapping the pretreat tank and pretreat hose that were previously installed in the system and activating the dose pump. UWMS once again did not show nominal readings and the ground team is currently assessing next steps.
Camera Light and Pan/Tilt Unit (PTU) Assembly (CLPA) Removal Operations: Today, the crew performed an activity to remove the old Mobile Base System (MBS) Mast CLPA from the JEM CLPA Adapter Plate (JCAP) on the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table. The crew then removed the JCAP and stowed both the CLPA and the JCAP. The MBS Mast CLPA was installed to the JCAP and ingressed to the ISS during operations to replace the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body 2 CLPA that had been showing signs of degradation.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the two upcoming EVAs. On Sunday, they completed an EVA Suit Intravehicular (IV) Review, an EVA Procedure Print and Review, an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) On-board Training (OBT) activity, a Dynamic On-board Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software Review, and a Robotics Procedure Review. Today, the crew completed an EVA Loop Scrub, an EMU Swap, and more EVA Procedure Review. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval Part 2.5 EVA on June 24th and the Common Communications for Visiting Vehicle (C2V2), Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS), Rate Gyro Assembly (RGA), and DC-DC Converter Unit (DDCU) (CARD) EVA on July 2nd.
ARED Quarterly Maintenance: Today, the crew completed regularly scheduled maintenance on ARED to inspect the X-Rotation Dashpots, cycle the Main Arm through its full range of motion, grease the ARED Vibration Isolation System (VIS) Rails and Rollers, grease the Upper Stop Catch Plates, and grease the Rack Indicator Catch Mechanisms. This maintenance allows the ARED exercise device to keep operating nominally as well as verifying if any wear and tear exists on the hardware.
