
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): Today, the CFT crew completed a variety of activities to assist the ISS crew and further operations on-orbit. They completed Gaucho Lung operations, Columbus Smoke Detector Cleanings, Genes in Space Molecular Operations and Sequencing (GiSMOS) operations, an International Docking Adapter (IDA) Multi-Layer Insulation (MLI) Reseat, and Crew Departure Preparations.
Payloads:
Gaucho Lung: Gaucho Lung samples 8 & 9 were processed with four runs of wicking and pushback using the syringe pump. More information on this experiment can be found here.
GiSMOS: Run 2/Day 2 Flow Cell sample was retrieved from cold stowage and processed using the MiniPCR DNA Sequencer to identify bacteria and fungi properties. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The crew disconnected the USB hard drive from the PK-4 unit and connected it to the Columbus Network Monitoring and Administration Unit (CMAU) laptop. PK-4 looks at complex or “dusty” plasmas, in which small particles are suspended and form patterns in ionized gas.  More information on PK-4 can be found here.
Zero Treadmill-2 (Zero T2): A crewmember performed Isometric Mid-Thigh Pulls (IMTP) on Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) equipment. More information on the current experiment (Zero T2) can be found here.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the two upcoming EVAs. The crew completed an EVA Procedure Review & Conference, Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Software Review, and an EVA Robotics Procedure Review & Conference. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval Part 2.5 EVA on June 24th and the Common Communications for Visiting Vehicle (C2V2), Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS), Rate Gyro Assembly (RGA), and DC-DC Converter Unit (DDCU) (CARD) EVA on July 2nd.
On-orbit Stowage Operations: The crew performed various activities to locate items of interest and organize for future ISS operations. They located a Food Processor Cargo Transfer Bag (CTB), an Echo Dummy Connector, and a Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Jumper. The crew also completed a Columbus CTB Video Audit to verify the contents of two CTBs and a Trash Pre-gather for NG-20 disposal.
