
67 Progress (67P) Docking: 67P rendezvous and docking to ISS Service Module (SM) aft port was completed successfully today at 6:37 am CDT.  Following hatch opening the crew began transferring early unstow items.
Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer (J-SSOD): The crew brought the JEM Airlock Slide Table (ST) into the ISS and mounted the J-SSOD #7 to it. A checkout was performed of the J-SSOD before removing the launch lock cover and attaching the Multi-Layered Insulation. The ST was then retracted back into the JEMAL and the airlock inner hatch was closed. These activities are in preparation for planned CubeSat deploys from the J-SSOD planned for July 7, 2017. 
Neutron Star Interior Composition ExploreR (NICER): Utilizing views from cameras mounted to the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM), Robotics Ground deployed the NICER today. Teams are conducting routine checks before proceeding to range-of-motion tests. Neutron stars consist of ultra-dense matter at the threshold of collapse to a black hole. These stars emit X-ray radiation that enables investigations into their structure, dynamics and energetics, but their X-rays do not penetrate Earth’s atmosphere. NICER is an articulated payload that provides full-hemisphere sky coverage for astronomical observations in soft X-ray band. Observations with NICER will help resolve competing models of neutron star composition, answer decades-old questions about extreme matter and gravity and reveal workings of high-energy, dynamic phenomena that neutron stars exhibit. 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 1:  The crew retrieved the Biophysics-1 Plate 2 from a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and allowed it to thaw for 90 minutes before placing it onto the Petri Base and installing the base into the LMM.  The LMM was then placed into the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) for a Biophysics science run.  Investigators will use the results from LMM Biophysics 3 to examine the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity. This investigation is expected to add to scientists’ understanding of the physical processes that enable high-quality crystals to grow in space, where Earth’s gravity does not interfere with their formation. 

