
Grip:  Today a crewmember deployed Grip hardware in the Columbus module central aisle and performed dynamic seated operations.  ESA’s Grip investigation tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects. Results from this investigation may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments as well as support design and control of haptic interfaces to be used in challenging environments such as space. Additionally, this investigation hopes to provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.  
Multi-Omics: A 54S crewmember collected fecal samples for JAXA’s Multi-Omics experiment and place them in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Multi-omics analysis of human microbial-metabolic cross-talk in the space ecosystem (Multi-Omics) investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function, by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the gut microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system. 
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS 3D): Passive radiation detectors were installed in the Columbus module today in support of ESA’s DOSIS 3D investigation. This experiment uses active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS and provides documentation of the actual nature and distribution of the radiation fields. A concise three dimensional dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS will be developed based on this data and data from JAXA and NASA monitoring devices. 
Human Research Program (Marrow, Cell-Free Epigenome (CFE) and Medical Proteomics):  A 55S crewmember collected blood samples for their Flight Day 5 session of CSA’s Marrow and JAXA’s CFE and Medical Proteomics investigations.  Air samples were collected for the Marrow investigation as well.

Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
For the CFE study, blood samples are collected from astronauts and cellular genes are analyzed.  The results provide insight into how human bodies function during space flight. 
The Medical Proteomics investigation evaluates changes of proteins in blood serum, bone and skeletal muscles after space flight, and also supports identification of osteopenia-related proteins. By combining research results for space mice, astronauts and ground patients, proteins related to osteopenia can be identified using the latest proteome analysis technique.  It is anticipated that the use of the marker proteins related to osteopenia will be of benefit in the future for assessing the health of astronauts as well as osteoporosis patients on ground. 

Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of 55S, all crewmembers participated today in an Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review. Items of discussion included crew accountability, access to escape vehicles, and ISS Commander responsibilities. Due to the complex nature of emergencies in space, it is imperative each crewmember is fully familiar with the various emergency procedures and strategies in place. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for this week’s US EVA #51 Node 2 External Wireless Communications (EWC), the crew used computer-aided simulations to review EVA procedures via Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG).  Later in the day, the crew participated in an EVA procedures conference to review their DOUG session and EVA procedures with ground specialists. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics specialists conducted a Mobile Transporter (MT) Translation from Work Site (WS)4 to WS3 this afternoon and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) on the
Mobile Base System (MBS)-2.  Once complete, they grappled the Node 2 (N2) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) with SSRMS.  These activities put the MSS in the required configuration to support Thursday’s US EVA #51 Node 2 External Wireless Communications (EWC). 
Marinara Service Pack (SP) Deploy: This morning, ground specialists deployed the Marinara SP on three crew-assigned Space Station Computers (SSCs). This update adds additional ground troubleshooting capabilities and supports upcoming payloads and Tech Demos.  Remaining SSCs will be loaded with the SP during crew sleep pending a successful checkout of this morning’s updated computers.  

