ISS On-Orbit Status 06/11/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Ahead tomorrow: “Russia Day” (Den’ Rossii), Russia’s National Holiday, established by Boris Yeltsin to celebrate national unity after the Russian parliament in 1990 formally declared its sovereignty, with large crowds in Red Square in Moscow, extending to Monday, 6/14. 
  
 At wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 After termination of charging the KPT-2 Piren battery overnight, Mikhail Kornienko &amp; Alexander Skvortsov ran another 2.5hr-session with the Russian KPT-2 BAR payload, taking background environmental parameters in the SM (Service Module) in areas found in the past to have high microflora growth indications (behind panels 134, 334, 335, 336).  The crewmembers used the new Piren-B Pyro-endoscope instrument and Iva-6A Thermal Hygrometer (to identify potential condensation areas), with the RSE1 laptop.  The measurements are required to forecast the rate of local shell micro-destruction and to develop measures to extend station life.  Afterwards, the crew cleaned up and closed out.       [Piren-B, a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, is part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Besides Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
 CDR Skvortsov later had 3 hrs set aside for maintenance work on the SM SOTR/Thermal Control System, removing the N2 pump of the 4SPN2 replaceable pump panel in Loop 2 (KOB2).      [The two SOTR KOB thermal loops control the removal of metabolic heat and heat emitted by working equipment; they also establish specific temperature conditions for the cabin atmosphere.  The excess heat is passed from the coolant through liquid-liquid heat exchangers (ZhZhT) into the active external thermal control system (KOKh) for subsequent radiation into open space.  Each loop contains 118 liters of "Triol" coolant fluid, i.e., water with a 30 percent solution of glycerin (to lower the freezing point to 7 degC) plus biocide and UV-light-sensitive additives to aid in leak detection.  One liter of Triol, which is nontoxic and poses no hazard to the crew, can absorb about 14 cubic cm of air.  Each of the two KOB loops is served by two nominally redundant pump panels (SPN), each equipped with two redundant replaceable electric pumps (ENA).  While in the early years of Mir and ISS the pumps were integral to the SPN panels, the more advanced current design allows them to be replaced without requiring a swap-out of an entire SPN block.] 
 
 FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson meanwhile completed a number of tasks including –
 <ul style="margin-top: 0pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 36pt; "> <li>Disconnecting the VES (Vacuum Exhaust System) umbilical from the waste gas QD (Quick Disconnect) at Lab loc. P4 which she had mated on 6/9 to check for hermeticity of the jumper   [VES is used by payloads etc. for easy access to the vacuum of space], and later</li><li>Hooking up the vacuum hose between the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) and the CSLM-2 SPU (Coarsening in Solid-Liquid Mixtures-2 Sample Processing Unit) which was found unconnected and the cause of the inability to vent the sample to vacuum,</li><li>Supporting ground-commanded troubleshooting of the OGS (Oxygen Generation System) by double-checking &amp; photographing the electrical connections (W308-P23, W310-P24) of the newly installed OGS Pump ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit)   [after the Pump R&amp;R on 6/9, the pump yesterday failed to spin up upon activation.  Tracy’s inspection today was to rule out the pump connectors as culprits.  The OGA (Oxygen Generation Assembly) is currently not working], and</li><li>Taking documentary photographs of the interior of the SDRM PSS (Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix System / Pellet Storage System) in ER5 (EXPRESS Rack 5)  [after first removing the SDRM test carousel, then imaging the PSS bay with close-ups of the PSS motor assembly, fine position sensor, test carousel, and the inside of the inner PSS door, finally replacing the Carousel.] </li></ul> 
 Later, Caldwell-Dyson had ~4 hrs reserved for first reviewing reference material on the SPHERES (Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites) experiment, then conducting a test session (Test Plan 22) in the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).      [The SPHERES experiment is a test bed for the development and testing of formation flying and other multi-spacecraft control algorithms. After setting up cameras and five beacons in the Work Area and dimming GLAs (General Luminaire Assemblies), Tracy programmed and deployed the satellites, then used the SSC (Station Support Computer) to command test execution.  This test session is set up to explore activities using all three satellites.  In Group A, one satellite is used to ensure that the metrology (measuring) system is working in the JPM.  Group B then employs two satellites to demonstrate algorithms for on-orbit autonomous assembly algorithms.  Group D uses three satellites to demonstrate decentralized control of formations.]
 
 Alexander conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 Mikhail performed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 At ~4:15am EDT, the crew held the regular (nominally weekly) tagup with the Russian Flight Control Team (GOGU), including Shift Flight Director (SRP), at TsUP via S-band/audio, phone-patched from Houston and Moscow.
 
 At ~4:30am, FE-2 conducted a teleconference with payload specialists at SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center)/Tsukuba, Japan, to discuss her upcoming session #7 (6/14, Monday) for the moon photography required by the JAXA EPO (Educational Programs Operation) “ISS Moon Score”.     [The purpose of this EPO is to create a musical score using seven different moon age photo sessions taken from “Kibo” and DC-1 windows, i.e., at different times in the lunar cycle, while the crew is floating naturally under microgravity environment.  Session 7 is a repeat of a session performed by Soichi Noguchi.  The others were taken by Greg Chamitoff, Koichi Wakata and Nicole Stott.  The photos used to create the Moon music score (which was uplinked as a .wma file) will be displayed in an exhibition to draw public attention.]
 
  At ~8:00am, Sasha &amp; Misha linked up with TsUP stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
 At ~2:10pm, Caldwell-Dyson held her regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists. 
 
 At ~2:55pm, the crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H.
 
 At ~4:20pm, Tracy will hold her weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 Tracy, Misha &amp; Sasha completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2), and VELO bike ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3).
 
 WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.     [The updated card (24-0007a) lists 127 CWCs (3,037.0 L total) for the five types of water now identified on board: 1. technical water (25 CWCs with 1,015.9 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 494.6 L in 13 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 387.1 L in 9 bags still requiring sample analysis,  2. potable water (9 CWCs with 366.7 L, of which 2 bags with 66.6 L require sample analysis, 4 bags with 170.8 L are to be used with microbial filter &amp; 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use,  3. iodinated water (84 CWCs with 1,550.1 L, including 26 CWCs with 472.3 L requiring analysis),  4. condensate water (7 bags with 73.0 L, including 2 CWCs with 43.4 L that are to be used with microbial filter, and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 31.3 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Bratislava, Slovakia (Bratislava is the capital of the Slovak Republic and is the country's largest city, with a population of 429,000.  The city is located in southwestern Slovakia on both banks of the Danube River.  It also borders the countries of Austria and Hungary), Baghdad, Iraq (Baghdad is the capital city of Iraq.  The municipal population has been estimated between 7 and 7.5 million, making it the second largest city in the Arab world.  It is located on the Tigris River and it dates back to the 8th century.  Looking slightly right of track, and overlapping images were requested), Asmara, Eritrea (Asmara is the capital city of Eritrea.  The city is located on the northwestern edge of the Great Rift Valley and the Eritrean highlands.  Overlapping mapping frames of the city are requested.  Looking right of the orbital pass.  The city does not contrast greatly with its surroundings, so the ground recommended starting mapping photography as ISS approached the target, continuing as it passed over it), Nyiragongo Volc., Rep. Congo (ISS nadir pass over this volcano took place when cloud cover was expected to be light.  This active volcano has a well-developed cone with a summit lava lake.  Overlapping frames of the volcano and surrounding area were requested.  The large shield [Hawaiian-type] volcano Nyamuragira is located immediately northwest of Nyiragongo; if visible, imagery of this volcano was also requested.  Both volcanoes are located to the north of Lake Kivu), Havana, Cuba (Havana is the capital city of Cuba.  Its population of 2.1 million makes it the largest city in Cuba.  Looking slightly left of track for this city.  Overlapping images were requested), and Volcan Colima, Mexico (ISS had a nadir pass in partly cloudy weather over this massive, 3,850-meter volcanic complex in southwestern Mexico.  CEO has numerous photos of this target, but cloud-free, long-lens views of the twin-peaked summit area have eluded crews to date).
 
 
