
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #74 – 2B IROSA Install: EV1 (Thomas Pesquet) and EV2 (Shane Kimbrough) performed a 7 hour and 15 minute EVA and completed the following tasks in support of Integrated Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) installation.

Release IROSA from FSE
Get ahead task: Release Outer Hinge Restraint Bolt, R5
Install IROSA on P6 2B Mast Canister [Partially completed]

Due to complications with aligning IROSA on the Mounting Bracket when unfolded, they were unable to complete the following tasks:

Connect IROSA Electrical Connectors
Deploy P6 2B IROSA
Retrieve APFR 3 and return IV

Ground teams have established that with IROSA soft captured and folded on the Mounting Bracket and bolts M31-M34 driven, IROSA is in a safe configuration.
Payloads:
Antimicrobial Coatings (Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings): Per standard procedure, the crew touched both the coated and uncoated coupons for this long-term investigation, and then took photos of the experiment surfaces. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings tests an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as creating the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
OBIS (Oral Biofilms in Space): The crew hydrated the OBiS assembly session packs 6-10 with Fluid Bag 2 into the Fluid Chamber and then restowed the packs into the MERLIN for incubation. Fluid Bag 2 is a fluid medium containing chemicals designed to promote bacterial growth along with oral care bioactives within the Fluid Chamber. Effect of Environmental Stressors on Oral Biofilm Growth and Treatment (Oral Biofilms in Space) studies the effect of gravity on the behavior of oral bacteria, including the structure of the bacterial community, and changes in bacterial response to common oral care agents. The findings could support development of novel treatments to fight oral diseases such as caries, gingivitis, and periodontitis. The investigation also could provide insights into how microgravity affects the microbiome of other mucosal surfaces in the body.
Systems:
Dragon Cargo Transfer: Today, the crew performed SpX-22 cargo transfer operations and will continue to work cargo operations throughout the week.

