
Payloads
Capillary Driven Microfluidics: The crew configured the Light Microscopy Module (LMM) in preparation for Microfluidics science runs. The crew also took photos of overall view of ACE Module capillaries and each capillary (three) for closer view during removal. Capillary-Driven Microfluidics in Space (Capillary Driven Microfluidics) examines the drawing of fluids into a tiny narrow tube in microgravity. Results may improve current mathematical models and understanding of microfluidic systems and improve fluid control in various devices. Diagnostic devices require separation of blood cells and plasma, which have different densities, and the absence of sedimentation and buoyancy-driven convection in microgravity improves the efficiency of this separation.
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): In support of the on-going s-Flame part 2 investigation, the crew replaced C2H4, He, and O2 gas bottles in preparation for upcoming test point runs. The ACME experiment series being performed in the CIR includes five independent studies of gaseous flames. The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth.  Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability.
REDEYE: The crew performed the JEM Airlock depress in preparation of the KABER deployer and slide table transfer to the outside of the JEM airlock for the deployment of the REDEYE-2 satellite. The RED-EYE program develops and demonstrates technologies which increase the utility of low-cost microsatellites using the KABER Micro Satellite Deployer attached to the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM).
Systems
Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) Ingress: Today the crew ingressed BEAM to retrieve charcoal filters stowed within the module.  In an effort to reduce the benzene level in the atmosphere, charcoal only filters will be installed in Node 1. The charcoal filters will be swapped out with the current Charcoal HEPA Integrated Particle Scrubber (CHIPS). This swap will address the concern that over time the charcoal portion of the CHIPS filter has absorbed benzene and other compounds could now potentially push the benzene off the filters contributing to the elevated benzene level.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)9 Rack Transfers: Today the crew transferred ExPRESS Rack-11B (ER11B) and the European Drawer Rack 2 (EDR2) from HTV9 to the ISS. Prior to the transfers, the crew moved the Light Ions Detector so the hardware was not in the translation path of the rack transfers in the Columbus module. The ER11B rack was relocated from HTV9A2 to COL1O2. Before the EDR2 rack could be relocated to its final location, the European Transport Carrier (ETC) rack was relocated from COL1D4 to HTV9A2. EDR2 was then relocated from HTVF2 to COL1D4.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tool Configuration: In preparation for the S6 Battery EVA next week, the crew completed the initial configuration of tools required for the EVA. Spread across several days, today was the first of several EVA tool configurations the crew will perform prior to the EVA. The first EVA in the pair is scheduled for Friday, June 26 while the second planned EVA is scheduled on Wednesday, July 1.
Acoustic Monitor Noise Survey: The crew used an acoustic monitor to measure the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS by taking sound level readings. Measurements were taken in Columbus, Node 3 and Docking Compartment 1 (DC1). This is a regularly scheduled activity to maintain acceptable noise levels which contributes to overall crew health

