
Payloads:
BioLab: A health check was performed on the Biolab Glovebox. The Biological Experiment Laboratory in Columbus (BioLab) is a multiuser research facility located in the European Columbus laboratory. The facility is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): The CIR chamber pump was removed and replaced by a spare unit.  The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel, and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
Electromagnetic Levitator (EML): Both Argon valves were opened, and the Helium valve was closed in preparation for future operations. The EML is a facility composed of four inserts installed into the European Drawer Rack (EDR) for the electromagnetic levitation of samples. The experiment samples are installed in a dedicated sample chamber that is attached to EML and can be replaced by new sample chambers for new experiment batches.
Human Research Facility-1 (HRF-1): Video and photography was performed during the crew’s inventory of the HRF Supply Purple and Green kits for realtime ground instruction. HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS HAM contact was initiated with Istituto Tecnico Industrile “Alessandro Rossi”, Vicenza, Veneto, Italy. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about 9 minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
Mochii: The Array Sample S/N 01 was metal coated and loaded into the Mochii miniature scanning electron microscope chamber for imaging. Mochii is a miniature scanning electron microscope (SEM) with spectroscopy to conduct real-time, on-site imaging and compositional measurements of particles on the ISS. Such particles can cause vehicle and equipment malfunctions and threaten crew health, but currently, samples must be returned to Earth for analysis, leaving crew and vehicle at risk. Mochii also provides a powerful new analysis platform to support novel microgravity science and engineering.
Touching Surfaces: The Touch Array S/N 01 was re-assembled upon completion of Mochii Imagery.  Previous space research conducted during short-term flight experiments and long-term environmental monitoring on board orbiting space stations (such as MIR or the ISS) suggests that the relationship between humans and microbes is altered in the crewed habitat in space. This interdisciplinary project Touching Surfaces aims to investigate novel, laser-structured antimicrobial surfaces onboard the ISS. The realistic testing of the tailor-made nanostructured antimicrobial surface in space allows for the determination of the most suitable design for antimicrobial surfaces for terrestrial applications such as public transportation and clinical settings, as well as future human space mission and habitation design.
Systems:
Cable Routing Video Survey: Today, to decongest some of the clutter of cables built up across the ISS over the years, the crew took a video survey of key areas in Lab, Node 1, Node 2, and Node 3. Ground teams will take the survey and the crew recommendation for rerouting and will create a procedure to reroute and remove unnecessary cabling. The cable reroute should help the crew as they work on science and complete maintenance and increase the lighting onboard.
Hatch Seal Inspection: As part of periodic maintenance, the crew cleaned and inspected the USOS hatch seals and hatch plate sealing surface for the Node 1 Forward. The crew inspected the hatch seal beads for FOD, nicks, burrs, cuts, or gouges that would impair a proper seal. The crew also inspected the crank handle mechanism and hatch seal interlocking joints for foreign object debris (FOD) or damage.
Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Trash Audit: The crew completed an audit of the PMM1 Endcone for all present trash to ensure Inventory Management System (IMS) is up to date with the latest configuration on orbit. The PMM was flown into space aboard the Space Shuttle and is primarily used for storage of spares, supplies and waste on the ISS.
Station Support Computer (SSC) Audit and Ethernet Cable Fix: The crew audited the SSC System laptops by snapping photos of the deployed configuration to assist ground teams with SSC tracking and support of any hardware-related anomalies. The crew fixed or replaced any broken Ethernet cables in use for SSC Clients.

