
Gravitational References for Sensitomotor Performance (GRASP): The crew reconfigured the GRASP equipment from the seated configuration to the quasi-free floating configuration this morning. They will compete three science operational runs in the new configuration. GRASP is intended to provide insight into how the central nervous system integrates information from different sensory modalities, encoded in different reference frames, in order to coordinate movements of the hand with objects in the environment.  Performed on the ISS, in conjunction with a series of experiments performed on the ground, GRASP explores the interaction between all of the various sensory cues.  
Human Research Program (Biochemical Profile, Marrow, and Repository):  This morning a 55S crewmember collected blood samples for their Flight Day 15 session of the Biochem Profile and Repository investigations and their Flight Day 10 session of CSA’s Marrow investigation.  They also collected air samples yesterday and today. 

The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. The repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Nanoracks-Remove Debris Satellite (RemDeb):  The crew depressurized and vented the Japanese Experiment Module Airlock today as part of the preparation for the deploy of the RemDeb planned for June 20th.  RemDeb demonstrates an approach to reducing the risks presented by space debris or “space junk”. Collisions in space may have serious consequences, but research has shown that removing the largest debris significantly reduces the chance of collisions. NanoRacks-Remove Debris demonstrates using a 3D camera to map location and speed of debris and deploying a net to capture and de-orbit simulated debris up to 1m in size. Ground experts will then analyze video of the demonstration runs. 
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): After retrieving the RaDI-N hardware from a Russian crewmember, a USOS crewmember deployed eight Space Bubble Detectors in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation measures neutron radiation levels in the ISS. Bubble detectors are designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Hydrogen (H2) Sensor Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Remove & Replace (R&R):  Today the crew R&Rd the OGS H2 sensor ORU and cleaned the associated Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) inlet.  This is routine maintenance, required every 201 days of sensor operation, is necessary due to the nominal degradation of H2 sensor material. Ground specialists are currently conducting a checkout of the newly installed sensor. 
Cygnus On-Board Training (OBT): The 54S crew, Prokopev, Gerst and Auñón-Chancellor, completed a training session to practice emergency response actions that need to be taken with Cygnus attached.  The crew regularly completes OBT sessions to refresh their familiarity with the various emergency procedures that can result from off-nominal events onboard ISS.  
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: This evening ground controllers will unstow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and conduct a Mobile Transporter translation from Worksite (WS)3 to WS7.  Once complete, operators will start configuring the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) for Remove Debris (RemDeb) extraction, scheduled for tomorrow, and deploy later this week. 

