
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint) Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Exercise Session:  Kelly performed his Flight Day (FD) 75 Sprint exercise session on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).  He donned Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes, Heart Rate Monitor (HRM) hardware, and Portable Pulmonary Function System (PPFS) calibrations then executed the VO2 protocol.  The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Upon completion of this study, investigators expect to provide an integrated resistance and aerobic exercise training protocol to maintain muscle, bone and cardiovascular health while reducing total exercise time over the course of a long-duration space flight. This will provide valuable information in support of investigator’s long term goal of protecting human fitness for even longer space exploration missions.
Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) Ice Brick Insertion: Kelly inserted Ice Bricks into MELFI for conditioning prior to SpaceX-7 arrival per the cold/conditioned stowage plan. 
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutrons (RADI-N):  Kelly received the RADI-N detectors from Kornienko and deployed them in the eight predetermined locations throughout the ISS. This investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.  For each session 8 detectors are initialized and deployed in predetermined locations for measurements: a set of 6 spectrometric detectors and two control ones are placed on a wall of a ISS Segment; After 7 days the detectors are collected and read using the BUBBLE reader.
Water Recovery System (WRS) Recycle Tank Remove & Replace (R&R): Kelly performed this regularly scheduled maintenance to R&R the WRS recycle tank.

