
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew replaced the Sample Cartridge and the stuck Sample Holder in the ELF with a new type of Sample Holder and a Sample Cartridge.  The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
NeuroMapping: The crew set up the Neuromapping hardware and executed testing in both a “strapped in” and “free floating” body configuration. During the test, the crewmember performed three Behavioral Assessments: mental rotation, sensorimotor adaptation, and motor-cognitive dual tasking. The NeuroMapping investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to brain structure and function, motor control, or multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
Habitability Walk-through: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through videoim documenting observations of life onboard ISS and providing insights related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. These observations can help spacecraft designers understand habitable volume requirements and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crewmembers need or not. 
ISS Medical Accessory Kit (IMAK) Unpack: The crew unpacked resupply kits delivered on SpX-11 and replaced expired items with new ones. They also packed items designated for return to ground.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations in Support of NICER:  Overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers walked the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) off the Node2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) onto Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF1. They then translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) with the Neutron Star Interior Composition ExploreR (NICER) Payload from Worksite 6 (WS6) to WS2.  Finally, Controllers unstowed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from MBS PDGF2.  These activities were to set up for tonight’s NICER installation onto ELC2.   

