
Resist Tubule: Commander (CDR) Swanson retrieved the Resist Tubule Measurement Experiment Unit B from inside the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) micro-gravity Incubator Unit (IU) and inserted the samples into the Clean Bench (CB) microscope for observation. Resist Tubule clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance. Gravity resistance is a principal gravity response in plants, and plays an important role in the transition of plant ancestors from an aquatic environment to a terrestrial environment (about 450 million years ago), and in the consequent establishment of land plants. This present study clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance, in particular the processes from signal transformation and transduction, to response.
Sprint Ultrasound: With help from Swanson, Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman took Sprint ultrasound data for his Flight Day (FD) 14 ultrasound Sprint session. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in International Space Station (ISS) crewmembers during long-duration missions. Ultrasound scans are on FD 14, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and R-7 for mission duration of six months and are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume.
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: Wiseman removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides, which isolated the rack and allowed ground teams to conduct another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. Iso-octane was used for this test point. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels. 
Circadian Rhythms: Wiseman terminated the data collection for Circadian Rhythms and removed the equipment. The main objective of the experiment is to get a better basic understanding of any alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights. This data will provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, but also has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest- and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions. 
Optical Payload for Lasercomm Science (OPALS) Status: Ground teams successfully recorded a downlinked file from the external ISS payload, OPALS. This test was different from previous tests by using a lower laser frequency; the type of file downlinked was a text file; and the pass was limited to only 15 degrees above the horizon where the previous pass was at 25 degrees. OPALS aims to demonstrate and test optical communications technologies from the ISS. This is accomplished by transferring video data from the OPALS hardware to a ground receiver at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory’s (JPL’s) Optical Communications Telescope Laboratory (OCTL).
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003: Following yesterday’s EMU 3003 resize for Swanson, today Gerst performed a 3-part checkout of the suit. He verified that all systems are functional post SpX-3 launch and prior to planned use in August. Tomorrow he will dump and fill the EMU feedwater tanks. 
Photo/TV (P/TV) EVA Camera Configuration:  In preparation for next week’s planned Russian EVA #38, Swanson configured cameras to be used during the event. Batteries will be swapped prior to the EVA.
Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA) 1 Inter-Module Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning – Today the crew completed the PMA 1 IMV cone screen cleaning.  The PMA 1 ducting brings air from the Russian Segment to Node 3.   The request for the cleaning was a result of recent IMV airflow measurements performed at the end of May.  The crew took imagery of the screen before and after the cleaning for ground teams to review.

