
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Slosh: (Commander (CDR) Swanson and Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman reviewed the Slosh procedures prior to Wiseman executing a Slosh test run. Later in the day, both Swanson and Wiseman conducted a SPHERES-Slosh run. This investigation uses small robotic satellites to examine how liquids move around inside containers in microgravity. A water bottle’s contents slosh around differently in space than on Earth, but the physics of liquid motion in microgravity are not well understood, which affects computer simulations of liquid rocket fuel behavior. Middle school and high school students control the SPHERES to study how liquids behave inside containers in space, which increases the safety and efficiency of future rockets.
Fundamental and Applied Studies of Emulsion Stability (FASES) Simulation of Geophysical Fluid Flow Under Microgravity (GEOFLOW) Swap: FE-6 Gerst removed the FASES Experiment Container (EC) from Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) and installed the GEOFLOW. During the swap Gerst conduced continuity measurements between the FSL and the FASES EC cable. Tomorrow the ground will start commanding to GEOFLOW to initiate troubleshooting to determine the source of temperature control issues seen with FASES in FSL.
European Space Agency (ESA) Education Payloads Operations (EPO): Gerst recorded a video regarding earth observation. These observations could include information regarding the Earth’s oceans, rivers, mountains, and forests. The EPO will be used for educational purposes on the ground.
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: Gerst removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides which isolates the rack and allows ground teams to conduct another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. Iso-octane was used for this test point. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Biological Rhythms: Gerst attached a digital walk holter and electrodes to start taking data for his first measurement of Biological Rhythms. Gerst will collect data for 48 hours. Wiseman removed his Biological Rhythms hardware which ended a 48 hour data collection session. Biological Rhythms studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics operators successfully performed a Mobile Transporter (MT) translation from Work Site (WS)7 to WS2. This is in preparation for the Pump Module (PM) Flight Releasable Attachment Mechanism (FRAM) relocation planned for next week.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC):  The WHC check separator light illuminated earlier today. The light has been cleared and WHC has been configured to internal water container [ЕДВ] until post RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 38 tomorrow. WHC is GO for use.

