
New Status:
Russian Navigation Receiver Module [НПМ-3] Failure Status: Today on Daily Orbit 1, Mission Control Center – Moscow (MCC-M) power cycled НПМ-3 and recovered the GPS receiver. Specialists plan to use the GPS receiver in support of ATV4 docking scheduled for Saturday, June 15, 2013. Preliminary data indicates a software glitch triggering a failure message and subsequent НПМ switchover. In the event that НПМ-3 does fail, cable swapping can be performed to restore functionality using НПМ-2. 

51 Progress (51P) Undocking: The 51P vehicle successfully undocked from the Russian Segment Service Module (SM) aft docking port at 8:58 am CDT after the command to open the vehicle hooks was issued at 8:56 am CDT. the separation appeared smooth with no vibrations noted. Video from the Progress vehicle showed that the SM docking ring surface appeared nominal and free of debris. Telemetry indicated that the АСФ-02 antenna that had not deployed prior to docking deployed after hook opening.  Pre-undocking analysis by NASA ground specialists indicated that should the antenna deploy, a nominal clearance of 2 mm between the antenna and in other SM obstructions should have existed. The first fifteen second burn separation burn was completed at approximately 9:01 am CDT. Following several days of the Russian Radar-Progress experiment, the deorbit of the vehicle is planned for GMT 170 (June 19th, 2013) starting at approximately 7:52 am CDT. Specialists are reviewing data and photography of the Progress taken by the ISS crew.

Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE) Install: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy installed the ACE-1 investigation in the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Fluids and Combustion Facility (FCF). This portion of the ACE experiment series will be the second of ten wells planned for Increment 35/36. Cassidy placed two oil dispensers and a pack of wipes into the Auxiliary Fluids Container (AFC), mixed the sample, and dispensed oil onto the sample. ACE-1 is a series of microscopic imaging investigations that uses the microgravity environment to examine flow characteristics and the evolution and ordering effects within a group of colloidal materials.

Periodic Fitness Evaluation (PFE): FE-5 Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg performed their first monthly PFE.  The purpose of this activity is to monitor crewmembers’ overall fitness levels to ensure that cardiovascular and musculoskeletal health and performance is satisfactory.The activity consists of performing a graded exercise test on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).

Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Prep: FE-2 Misurkin and FE-4 Yurchikhin prepared hardware to be used and taken out during RS EVA 33, scheduled for June 24, 2013.

