
Skin-B Operations: Earlier this morning the crew performed Corneometer, Tewameter and Visioscan measurements on his forearm. The Corneometer measures the hydration level of the stratus coreum (outer layer of the skin); the Tewameter measures the skin barrier function, and the Visioscan measures the skin surface topography. Skin B is a European Space Agency (ESA) investigation that aims to improve the understanding of skin aging, which is greatly accelerated in space. The data will also be used to verify the results from previous testing on the ISS.
 
Improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG) Installation: The crew replaced the iPEHG in the EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Rack 5 with a newly designed unit. The rack has been powered and checkout is in work. The new iPEHG design corrects performance limitations often experienced by the older iPEHG.
 
Auxin Transport Run #3-2: The crew retrieved samples that were installed in the Cell Biology Experiment Unit (CBEF) four days ago for incubation and conducted the fixation, sampling and closeout activities which completes the final of four Auxin Transport experiment runs. The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Auxin Transport investigation clarifies the role of auxins in pea and maize (corn) seedlings grown in microgravity, leading to new insight into how gravity, or the lack of gravity, affects plant development. This study may contribute to increasing the efficiency of plant cultivation in plant factories. The data obtained from the second experiment run will provide evidence of spaceflight‐alterations in auxin polar transport and endogenous levels of auxin, resulting in automorphogenesis.
 
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N) Retrieval: A USOS crewmember retrieved all 8 of the Space Bubble Detectors that were deployed last week in the ISS for the Radi-N experiment and handed them over to the Russian crewmember to be processed in the Bubble Reader. The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) RaDI-N investigation measures neutron radiation levels in the ISS. RaDI-N uses bubble detectors as neutron monitors which have been designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
 
Material Science Laboratory (MSL) Sample Cartridge Assembly (SCA) Exchange 2B #1: The crew removed the MSL Furnace Calibration Cartridge, installed the new MSL SQF Sample Cartridge, and prepared the facility for a sample run next week. During these operations, debris was found inside the MSL and vacuumed out by the crew.  MSL engineers are evaluating, but the operations team is proceeding with preparation for the upcoming science run, pending an engineering decision.  The MSL can accommodate one Furnace Insert (FI) at a time for experiment processing. Two ESA-developed FIs are presently available: the Low Gradient Furnace (LGF) and the Solidification and Quenching Furnace (SQF), Sample-Cartridge Assemblies (SCAs) for science programs.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: The crew continued HRP operations that began earlier the week by collecting saliva and urine samples and processing a set of blood samples for double spin operations using the Refrigerated Centrifuge. The samples will be stowed in the Minus Eighty-degree Freezer for ISS MELFI.
Space Headaches: The European Space Agency (ESA) Space Headaches questionnaire wascompleted to provide information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crew members which can influence performance during a space mission.
 
Cygnus Departure Preparations: Last night Robotics Ground Controllers commanded the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to grapple Cygnus for release and departure scheduled for next Tuesday, June 14. Today the crew completed an On Board Training (OBT) session to review release procedures.
 
Cygnus Cargo Operations: The crew reported that he needed an additional 45 minutes to complete operations and take closeout photos. Forty-five minutes will be added to the crew’s timeline over the weekend. Approximately 49 hours have been completed.
 

