
Smoke in Service Module (SM):  This afternoon the Russian crew reported smoke and a burning smell coming from the Water Dispensing and Heating Unit (БРП-М).  They powered down the БРП-М and the SM Condensate Water Processor (SRVK) and initiated emergency procedures, including activation of the manual fire alarm to deactivate ventilation.  Readings from the Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustible Products (CSA-CP) were low enough that masks were not required.  Air scrubbers in the SM were activated.  Once the БРП-М cooled down, it was removed and stowed in a rubber lined bag.  Ground teams are currently reactivating systems that were deactivated in response to the event.  The crew is fine and has gone to sleep for the night. 
Resist Tubule: Commander (CDR) Swanson removed Resist Tubule samples from the +2 Celsius Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), inserted the samples into Measurement Experiment Unit B and attached the unit inside the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) 1-gravity Incubator Unit (IU). Resist Tubule clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance. Gravity resistance is a principal gravity response in plants, and plays an important role in the transition of plant ancestors from an aquatic environment to a terrestrial environment (about 450 million years ago), and in the consequent establishment of land plants. This present study clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance, in particular the processes from signal transformation and transduction, to response. 
VEG-01 Plant Harvest: Swanson harvested six plants for the VEG-01 investigation that was delivered to the ISS on SpaceX-3. The harvested plants were stowed in the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return to the ground at a later date. The VEG-01 hardware validation test investigation utilizes the Veggie facility on ISS. This investigation will assess on-orbit function and performance of the Veggie, and focus on the growth and development of ‘Outredgeous’ Lettuce (Lactuca sativa ) seedlings in the spaceflight environment and the effects of the spaceflight environment on composition of microbial flora on the Veggie-grown plants and the Veggie facility.
Body Measures: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman and FE-6 Gerst conducted their Flight Day (FD) 15 session of Body Measures. The set up body marker instrumentation and took calibration and body pose pictures along with circumference measurements, then recorded a neutral body posture video. The goal of this study is to gather data to better understand the magnitude and variability of changes due to microgravity and fluid shifts within the human body during long-duration space flight. Results of the investigation may result in changes to space suit fit and sizing, workstation design, etc. for future missions to maximize performance, prevent injury, and reduce crew time to accommodate their anthropometrics.
Circadian Rhythms: Wiseman donned the Circadian Rhythms equipment and will wear it for 36 hours. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
On Board Training (OBT) Cygnus: In preparation for scheduled launch of Orbital-2 scheduled No Earlier Than (NET) July 1, Swanson and Gerst participated in a conference with ground teams followed by robotics practice for approach monitoring and capture.
Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) 4B_A Remote Power Controller (RPC) #4 Trip Status: Today, the ground completed the second phase of troubleshooting for this RPC trip.  The RPC feeds the Early External Thermal Control System (EETCS) Loop A Pump Flow Control Subassembly (PFCS).  When the trip initially occurred, heater strings on another RPC activated simultaneously with the trip.  Today, the ground isolated the heater circuits’ RPC, and then commanded RPC 4 closed.  It tripped immediately.  The data revealed a true over current event in the PFCS or downstream system, exonerating the heater circuits.  Ground teams are discussing the next course of action.
Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) 3B Power On Reset (POR): SSU 3B experienced a spontaneous POR overnight which occurred approximately 2 minutes into insolation and triggered caution SSU 3B Loss of Comm.  All downstream loads were recovered.  Engineering is reviewing the details of the event.
Condensate Water Pump Maintenance: Last week, during the Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) water transfer to the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) waste water tank, the crew noted that the condensate transfer manifold peristaltic tubing had a pin hole leak that caused a marble size ball of water to form on the tubing. Today, the crew successfully replaced the failed tubing. A performance checkout will be performed as part of the next week’s scheduled water transfer.

