
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): Over the weekend, the CFT crew performed various Starliner vehicle tests and assessments, as well as emergency preparation. The crew performed a Safe Haven Test, a CFT Habitability Assessment, CFT Crew Suit and Seat Adjustments, Emergency Hardware Familiarization, and an Emergency Roles and Responsibilities Review. 
Cygnus NG-20 ISS Reboost: On Saturday, the Cygnus NG-20 vehicle performed a reboost of the ISS, increasing the velocity by a total of 1.08 m/s. Due to the altitude of the ISS, there are still small traces of atmosphere that provide drag and slow the ISS. These reboosts allow the ISS to maintain its orbit and set up phasing conditions for the Progress 89P launch in August. This reboost used all of the remaining NG-20 reboost propellant.
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction – Material Ignition and Suppression Test (CIR/SoFIE-Mist): The SoFIE Chamber was removed from the Combustion Integrated Rack facility, the sample holder was replaced, and experiment samples, igniter tip, and igniter arm were installed. The SoFIE chamber was then re-inserted back into the CIR. More information on this experiment can be found here. 
Earthshine: The crew reviewed the Big Picture Words and set up the hardware which will be used for an Earthshine science session. This investigation involves the thorough analysis of photos taken of the Moon from the ISS at specific points in the lunar cycle to study changes in the Earth’s reflectance of light, or albedo. More information on Earthshine can be found here.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): Troubleshooting efforts were performed on the MSG Laptop Computer (MLC) by scanning the disk drive for system errors and performing a reboot. The reboot was successful and the laptop is back in a nominal configuration. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Plasma Kristall-4 (PK-4): The Gas supply valve was switched from Neon to Argon and the Video Monitor was switched on to ensure that the Columbus Video Camera (VCA2) was on the monitor laptop screen for ground team monitoring. PK-4 looks at complex or “dusty” plasmas, in which small particles are suspended and form patterns in ionized gas.  More information on PK-4 can be found here.
Sleep in Orbit: The crew performed a battery change on the Ear-electroencephalography (EEG) hardware and donned hardware for an evening recording session. These sessions occur overnight during the crew’s sleep, and use EEG to study electrical signals in the brain. More information on the Sleep in Orbit experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) On-orbit Fitcheck Verification (OFV): The crew performed a second OFV for EMU 3009 in preparation for the upcoming EVAs. The fitcheck was used to adjust the EMU sizing following the first OFV on Wednesday, June 5th. The fitcheck for EMU 3009 was conducted successfully. The OFV is in preparation for the upcoming Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval 2.5 EVA, CP9 External High-Definition Camera (EHDC) Remove & Replace (R&R) EVA, and ISS Roll-Out Solar Array (IROSA) 2A Preparation EVA. The RFG Retrieval 2.5 EVA is scheduled to be conducted this Thursday, June 13th.
On-board Training (OBT) Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session: The crew performed a ROBoT session in preparation for RFG Retrieval 2.5 EVA on Thursday. The crew used the ROBoT to practice the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) procedure that will be used for the June 13th EVA. This training exercise allows the full USOS crew to get familiar with the procedure in a simulated environment prior to conducting the EVA.
Progress 88P EHDC Survey: The ground team configured the Video Distribution System (VDS) for EHDC camera views and performed an external survey of 88P. The survey consisted of taking images of the Progress vehicle at various lighting conditions during two day-passes using two EHDCs. The team looked for any physical indicators that could impact 88P undock later this year.
