
New Status:
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE) Vane Gap-1: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg completed the 8th of 11 planned test sessions. With ground direction, Nyberg used the CFE-2 vessel to observe fluid interface and critical wetting behavior in a cylindrical chamber with elliptic cross-section and an adjustable central perforated vane. CFE uses the low-gravity environment provided by the International Space Station to understand the special dynamics of capillary flow and will aid in the design of fluid transport systems on future spacecraft.
Biological Rhythms 48-hour Operations:  Nyberg attached electrodes and donned a Digital Walk Holter Electrocardiogram (ECG) earlier today and will wear them for 48 hours as part of the Biological Rhythms experiment. The investigation examines the circadian variations in the cardiac autonomic function during space flight. Results will be used to improve crew health technology on long-duration space flights.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT) 4:  FE-5 Parmitano initiated Sample 3 run.  BCAT-4 samples contain microscopic spheres of different diameters suspended in a liquid.  Parmitano photographed the samples over time to document the way the particles crystallize in microgravity.
ISS as Testbed for Analog Research (ISTAR):  Nyberg performed the second of three ISTAR sessions inspecting Countermeasures System (CMS) Treadmill 2 (T2). ISTAR Crew Autonomous Procedures explore delayed voice communication and modified flight and ground operational procedures in preparation for the future human exploration of deep space.
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Fan Cleaning: FE-3 Cassidy rotated the MSG rack downward in order to clean Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) Fan Filter and took photographs. After photos were taken, the rack was rotated back to its nominal position.
ATV Rendezvous & Docking Simulation On-Board Training (OBT): FE-2 Misurkin and Parmitano conducted proficiency training on the ATV Rendezvous and Docking Simulator. Both practiced Crew interaction during ATV’s Rendezvous and Docking. In addition, the crew reviewed their responses towards various malfunction scenarios.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations – Overnight, Robotics Ground Controllers powered down the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite (WS) #6 to WS5. Controllers then repowered MSS and  maneuvered the SSRMS into position, grappled the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator System (SPDM) and released it from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 2. The Robotics Ground Controllers then maneuvered the SSRMS and SPDM to the start position for the Cargo Transportation Container (CTC) #5 and #3 transfer Operations that will be performed later tonight and Friday

