
BioNutrients: The crew performed a hydration and agitation for the BioNutrients experiment and started the 48 hour incubation at 30 deg C.  BioNutrients demonstrates a technology that enables on-demand production of human nutrients during long-duration space missions. The process uses engineered microbes, like yeast, to generate carotenoids from an edible media to supplement potential vitamin losses from food that is stored for very long periods. Specially designed storage/growth packets are intermittently activated by astronauts over a 5-year period, then frozen and returned to Earth for examination.
Capillary Structures: The crew performed a water refill and camera/flash battery exchange for the ongoing Capillary Structures Evaporation Science run. Current life-support systems on the ISS require special equipment to separate liquids and gases, including rotating or moving devices that could cause contamination if they break or fail. The Capillary Structures investigation studies a new method using structures of specific shapes to manage fluid and gas mixtures. The investigation studies water recycling and carbon dioxide removal systems, benefiting future efforts to design lightweight, more reliable life support systems for future space missions.
Standard Measures: The crew performed blood and saliva collections in support of the Standard Measures investigation. The aim of the investigation is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space.  Among other things, the ground teams perform analyses for metabolic and chemistry panels, immune function, microbiome, etc. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
ISS Experience: The crew continued the experiment with the performance of two Astronaut logs. During the log, the crew discussed their time in space, the most significant personal thing learned, Veggie/Veg-04A and the importance of growing food in space. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Life Support Rack (LSR): An air outlet visual inspection and power cable EMI ring removal were performed as a continuation of the LSR troubleshooting. LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. It captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR is intended to operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Story Time from Space: Over the weekend the crew performed a “singing” from the book Hey Ho, to Mars We Go. Today the crew performed a reading from the book Ada Lace, Take Me to Your Leader (chapters 4-8).  Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crewmembers read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crewmembers videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Water Storage System (WSS): The crew completed final hardware installation for the WSS. The system will add new capabilities to the existing Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Water Recovery and Management System (WRM) by providing an additional 75 liters of iodinated water storage as well as new methods of transporting water in the potable water bus.
USOS Hatch Seal Inspection: The crew performed this regularly scheduled preventive maintenance to clean and inspect USOS hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surface and hatch handle mechanisms for foreign object debris or damage. The crew inspected Node 2, Node 3, PMM, Columbus and JEM hatches.

