
Biological Rhythms: Over the weekend, FE-5 Wiseman donned an Actiwatch to start measurements for the Biological Rhythms investigation. Today, Wiseman attached a digital walk holter and electrodes to start taking data for his first measurement of Biological Rhythms. Wiseman will collect data for 48 hours. Biological Rhythms studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
Circadian Rhythms: Over the weekend, FE-6 Gerst removed the Circadian Rhythms equipment to complete a 36 hour data collection session. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Gerst conducted four flame tests with black and clear acrylic rods at low oxygen levels and low ventilation opposed flow. During the last test session, ground teams lost experiment video and still images. Ground teams are working on a troubleshooting plan for tomorrow’s BASS-II operations. The BASS-II investigation examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The BASS-II experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Biochemical Profiles: Over the weekend, Wiseman collected urine samples for Biochemical Profiles. Today, Wiseman continued to collect urine samples, as well as blood samples for his Flight Day 15 data collection. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-M-2 Sample Repair: CDR Swanson repaired the cracked housing for the ACE-M-2 samples. Swanson set up the ACE-M-2 samples on the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) inside the containment system, vacuum any loose fragments from the sample well, and place tape on a well to prevent release of future fragments. The repair will allow the ACE-M-2 sample to be studied inside the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) at a later date.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Water Sampling: Swanson collected Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) ambient and hot water samples. He then performed in-flight analysis of the samples for microbial and coliform detection.
Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Heat Exchanger Thermal Bubble Injection:  Following the changeout of the CCAA Heat Exchanger last week, today Swanson injected a bubble of air into the old Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) to allow for thermal expansion before being returned to the ground.

