
Materials International Space Station Experiment-11 (MISSE-11): Robotics Ground Controllers swapped MISSE Mission Science Carrier-5 (MSC-5) and MISSE MSC-6 positions. The ground then  commanded theElectrodynamic Dust Shield (EDS) hardware located in MSC-6 to an active status and verified full door open/closing capability. MSC-5 which is a passive payload was only able to open its hinge doors to the 93% close position. The MISSE-11 hosts a suite of 349 investigations/test samples consisting of radiation protection, radiation detection, laminates, coatings, polymetric, high-efficiency low-mass solar cell systems, composites, and additively-manufactured materials, all exposed to the low-Earth orbit space environment. The Materials ISS Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) is a permanently installed test platform affixed to the exterior of the ISS. It provides NASA, private researchers and scientists the ability to test materials, electronics, and other components, and conduct TRL-raising technology demonstrations for extended periods in low-Earth orbit. 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): The crew installed the CBEF humidifier. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS 3D): The crew de-installed the eleven DOSIS 3D Passive detectors in the Columbus Module. This experiment uses active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS and provides documentation of the actual nature and distribution of the radiation fields. A concise three dimensional dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS will be developed based on this data. 
Capillary Structures: The crew completed the 2nd day of Sorbent Science 4 Cell experiment session to demonstrate flow through parallel microgravity air liquid contactor wedges. Current life-support systems on the ISS require special equipment to separate liquids and gases, including rotating or moving devices that could cause contamination if they break or fail. This investigation studies a new method using structures of specific shapes to manage fluid and gas mixtures. It studies water recycling and carbon dioxide removal, benefiting future efforts to design lightweight, more reliable life support systems for future space missions.
STaARS BioScience-11: The crew performed sample Cryotube agitations and placed the samples into cold stowage. STaARS BioScience manufactures nanosomes, or nanoparticle delivery systems, for use in targeting chronic diseases such as Alzheimer’s and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Nanoparticles created in microgravity are much smaller, enhancing drug uptake and delivery. This approach potentially reduces the required dose per treatment and decreases cost per dose.
Emergency Mask Procedure Review On-Board Training (OBT): The 58S crew reviewed and practiced the emergency mask don/purge technique for an ammonia leak scenario. This is nominal training to maintain crew proficiency using emergency masks.

