ISS On-Orbit Status 06/15/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     
 
FE-4 Volkov terminated his first experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.] 
 
After wakeup, CDR Borisenko conducted the routine verification of yesterday’s automatic refresh of the IUS AntiVirus program on the Russian VKS auxiliary network laptops RSS1, RSS2, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2.       [Regularly on Mondays (except this time), automatic virus definition file updates are verified on the RSS2, RSS1, RSK1-T61p &amp; RSK2 network laptops, while the non-networked laptops RSE-Med &amp; RSE1 are manually updated.  Antivirus scans are then started &amp; monitored on RSS2 &amp; RSE-Med.  Results of the scans on RSS1, RSK1-T61p, RSK2 &amp; RSE1 are verified on Tuesdays.  Russian network laptops have software installed for automatic anti-virus update; fresh data is copied on RSK1-T61p &amp; RRSK2 every time a computer is rebooted with a special login, and on RSS1 once daily.  On Russian non-network laptops antivirus definition file update is done by the crew once every two weeks on Monday.]
 
FE-3 Garan initiated another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer) and deactivated the system ~5 hrs later.       [This was the 37<sup>th</sup> session with the replaced GC/DMS unit #1004, after the previous instrument (#1002) was used for approximately 7 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop (due to a software glitch, the software needs to be opened, closed, and then reopened in order to ensure good communication between GC/DMS and SSC-12).  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.
 
Working several hours of outfitting in the SM (Service Module), Aleksandr Samokutyayev installed the ATV PCE (Automated Transfer Vehicle / Proximity Communications Equipment; Russian: MBRL) hardware for the upcoming undocking and prox ops of ATV2 “Johannes Kepler”.     [Specifically, Sasha laid out the associated BKS cabling and installed the PCE Z0000 prox comm box and BUAP antenna switching control box, then connected the cabling to the MBRL mono-block with its PU control panel, supported by ground specialist tagup on S-Band and VHF.  PCE uses the external WAL3 (Low Gain) and WAS2 (Medium Gain) antennas on the SM.]
 
After setting up the Lab video camcorder to capture his CEVIS workout, FE-5 Furukawa completed his first session with the U.S. PFE (Periodic Fitness Evaluation) protocol as subject, a monthly 1.5-hr. procedure which checks up on BP (blood pressure) &amp; ECG (electrocardiogram) during programmed exercise on the CEVIS cycle ergometer in the US Lab.  Readings were taken with BP/ECG equipment and the HRM (heart rate monitor) watch with its radio transmitter.  Mike Fossum assisted as Operator/CMO (Crew Medical Officer).  The video recording was then terminated.      [BP/ECG provides automated noninvasive systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements while also monitoring and displaying accurate heart rates on a continual basis at rest and during exercise.] 
 
In the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Satoshi performed troubleshooting on the MLT2 (Microgravity Measurement Apparatus Laptop Terminal 2), checking out an error message on its display and rebooting the laptop after informing SSIPC (Space Station Information &amp; Promotion Center/Tsukuba).
 
Also in the Kibo laboratory, Satoshi continued preparing MELFI-3 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 3) for Stage ULF6 preservative storage needs by retrieving 4 ice bricks (-32 degC) and inserting them, plus swapping one half Box Module in Dewar 2, Tray B/Sections 1, 2.
 
FE-6 Fossum similarly worked on MELFI-1 in the Lab, inserting 4 ice bricks (-32 degC) and swapping one half Box Module in Dewar 3, Tray C/Sections 1, 2.
 
Later, Mike closed the protective external shutters of the Lab, Node-3/Cupola &amp; JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) window to prevent their contamination from thruster effluents during and after today’s ATV2 reboost (11:55am).


FE-6 also needed about 3 hrs for preparing the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker/Incubator) in the Lab for return on STS-135/ULF-7, removing it from its ER (EXPRESS Rack) and packing it for soft stowage.
 
After charging the SONY HVR-Z7 camcorder battery in the morning, CDR Borisenko installed &amp; started the equipment of the GFI-1 “Relaksatsiya” (Relaxation) Earth Observation experiment at SM window #9 for another run of spectral observation of solar radiation during the transition to eclipse with the Fialka-MV-Kosmos equipment.  Later, Andrey dismantled the equipment.       [Using the GFI-1 UFK “Fialka-MV-Kosmos” ultraviolet camera, SP spectrometer and SONY HVR-Z7 HD (High Definition) camcorder, the experiment observes the Earth atmosphere and surface from windows #9 &amp; #6, with spectrometer measurements controlled from Laptop 3.  “Relaxation”, in Physics, is the transition of an atom or molecule from a higher energy level to a lower one, emitting radiative energy in the process as equilibrium is achieved.]
 
For the Russian BTKh-44/CALCIUM payload, Volkov repositioned 8 experiment containers in the SM and took documentary photography, then reported on the session and downlinked the pictures.
 
Borisenko activated &amp; verified proper operation of the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM for taking structural dynamics data during today’s ATV2 reboost.  Later, Andrey downloaded the stored measurements.     [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control &amp; Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]
 
Afterwards, Andrey checked out proper communications between the BSPN Payload Server and the RSS1 laptop, and then downloaded data accumulated from the GFI-7 Molniya-GAMMA experiment mounted externally since the Russian EVA-28.       [GFI-17 “Molniya” FOTON-GAMMA investigates atmospheric gamma-ray bursts and optical radiation in conditions of thunderstorm activity.]
 
FE-3 Garan had several hours allotted for locating, unpacking, swapping and repacking of medical supplies from 42P-delivered Med Supply pack IV with checklists and cue card, plus 7 new Medical Kits from the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module).      [The activity separated the equipment in three categories for stowage in Lab lockers: (1) New med kits &amp; related items/hardware, (2) items removed from the Lab lockers and later put back in, some after some manipulation, and (3) items that will be returned on ULF7.]
 
For the upcoming EVA (Extravehicular Activity) by Fossum &amp; Garan during the STS-135/docked period, Mike initiated battery recharge on the EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) Lithium-Ion LLBs (Long Life Batteries).
 
Furukawa conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks).
 
Later, Ron set up the NUTRITION w/Repository blood collection equipment for himself and Satoshi, scheduled tomorrow (Ron) and Friday (Satoshi).  Furukawa will begin the associated NUTRITION w/Repository 24-hr urine collection tomorrow morning, first time for him.
 
Andrey conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Sergei Volkov meanwhile took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
The CDR later re-installed an air duct between the SM PkhO (Transfer Compartment) and the MRM2 Poisk module, stretching it in the PkhO toward the SM-FGB hatch, securing it and taking documentary photography of the installation and attachments.  Soyuz TMA-21/26S ventilation valve was then opened and the fan activated.
 
Starting at 11:15am, the six crewmembers jointly worked their way through the periodic CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) Medical Contingency OBT (Onboard Training) drill, taking ~45 min today.     [This on-board training/drill gives crewmembers the opportunity to work as a team in resolving a simulated medical emergency onboard ISS. This training refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment use, and procedures.  Objective is to practice crew communications &amp; coordination necessary to perform medical emergency procedures using such equipment as the ACLS, ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack) &amp; AED (Automated External Defibrillator), performing hardware deployment &amp; rescuer positioning, and conducting simulations of CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation), deployment &amp; use of the CMRS (Crew Medical Restraint System), reviewing prevention of oxygen “bubble” build-up when using the RSP (Respiratory Support Pack), etc.]
 
Fossum &amp; Furukawa had another 1 hr set aside for continuing ATV2 cargo operations, loading excessed equipment and trash on the vehicle based on updated ATV2 Cargo &amp; ATV2 Choreography lists uplinked from the ground.  
 
FE-4 had about one hour set aside for unloading Soyuz 27S and transferring its cargo to the ISS, going by an uplinked transfer &amp; stowage list calling out 110 individual payload items.
 
At ~2:55pm EDT, Mike is scheduled for a tagup with the ground to brief specialists on the state of transfers.
 
Borisenko, Samokutyayev &amp; Volkov each had a 10-min PMC (Private Medical Conference) via phone patch, Sasha at ~3:30am, Sergei at ~4:40am, Andrey at ~5:10am.
 
At ~10:30am, Ron, Mike &amp; Satoshi joined for an ULF7 Pre-pack conference with the ground, discussing their upcoming activities to gather &amp; prepare equipment for the final Shuttle visit by STS-135.     [During Pre-pack the crew will pack up items that will not be used before or during ULF7.  The ULF7 MPLM (Multi-Purpose Logistics Module) has been modified to carry more cargo than any previous MPLM, and since this is the last Shuttle flight it is very important to get as much un-needed cargo off ISS as possible.  During scheduled pre-pack time the crew will work from an uplinked pre-pack list doing any non-constrained items.  Staging locations for the pre-packed gear are JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment) Rack Fronts (prime location), COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) D2 Rack Front (for ESA), PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module), and FGB.]
 
Volkov broke out and set up the equipment for another session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis, scheduled tomorrow for the three Russian crewmembers.       [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s /special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]
 
Sergei also completed a data collection session for the psychological program MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”), accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was his first onboard session with MBI-16.      [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
Satoshi Furukawa &amp; Mike Fossum spent about an hour with Ron Garan in a handover session, their first, during which Ron familiarized his crewmates with USOS (US Segment) activities.
 
The three newcomers, Satoshi, Mike &amp; Sergei, had their free time (~1 hr) for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization &amp; acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.
 
Shortly before bedtime, Samokutyayev will initiate recharging the batteries for the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) hardware.      [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere].
 
Also before sleep, Sasha is to start battery charging for the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware.     [The FSS system consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module.  FSS includes the ME Electronics Module &amp; MRI Image Recording Module.]
 
Before “Presleep” period tonight, Garan will power on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
FE-5 &amp; FE-6 were scheduled for their 6<sup>th</sup> post-launch PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Sergei at ~1:50pm, Mike at ~1:00pm, Satoshi at ~2:35pm.  Also, at ~4:00pm, FE-3 Garan will take his weekly PMC.
 
At ~4:35pm, Fossum is also timelined for a PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-4, FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-4), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR, FE-1).  No exercise reported for Ron Garan and only one set for Satoshi Furukawa (CEVIS/PFE).
 
After a T2 treadmill exercise session, FE-6 performed the periodic T2 snubber arm stacks inspection of witness marks (to indicate undesired motion), done once a month to track structural integrity of the hardware with a “wiggle” test.
 
ISS Reboost Update:  This morning at 11:55am, the ATV2 performed another ISS reboost with its OCS (Orbit Correction System) thrusters, with nominal results (details to be reported when available).    [To better manage battery charge, the original plan of another set of dual reboosts this weekend was changed yesterday.  Instead, a single reboost burn was conducted today, another single burn is scheduled on Friday (5/17), and Saturday (5/18) is reserved for a backup single-burn reboost.  The 4B and 2A BGAs (Beta Gimbal Assemblies) are being kept in Autotrack for these events.]
 
Solar Beta Angle:   Beta Angle is peaking today at 74.9 deg.  During the current high solar Beta Angle period, onboard system configurations and operations are being carefully monitored to protect against overheating; e.g., the portside radiator is used to shield PMA-3 (Pressurized Mating Adapter 3), and the Ku-band antenna had needed to be “parked”, reducing Ku-band coverage this week.  However, the AMS 2 (Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer 2) has been successfully configured to communicate on S-band.
 
ATV2 Fan:   Last Sunday, between the dual reboosts, an attempt by ESA to reactivate the failed internal fan failed again after 15-20 min.  It has now been declared hard-failed, and the 22 kg of O<sub>2</sub> remaining in the ATV2 tank will not be transferred since it cannot be done safely.  The reboosts were done without fan, and equipment temperatures remained well within limits.
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked today were Polar Mesospheric Clouds over North America.     [Current daylight-awake orbit tracks have transitioned into a seasonal pattern in which they temporarily parallel the terminator.  Consequently most of the nadir views of CEO target areas fall below the criteria for illumination, with darkness to the right of track and adequate lighting left of track.  Today none of the standard target areas has sufficient illumination.  This condition is expected to persist for the next 7-10 days.  Meanwhile, CEO researchers are continuing to look for dynamic events targets for which oblique views to left of track may be useful or nighttime targets.  Auroral activity in the Northern Hemisphere has spiked recently with the dramatic solar flare on 6/7.  May-June is also the seasonal peak period for observing noctilucent clouds (a.k.a. polar mesospheric clouds) in the Northern Hemisphere.]
 


