
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA):  Today, the crew troubleshot the SUBSA experiment that is currently located in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). The crew removed the sample ampoule, which was lodged inside the chamber bore. Additional troubleshooting is being discussed among the ground teams. The objective of the SUBSA investigation is to advance understanding of the processes involved in semiconductor crystal growth. It offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C. Samples are contained in transparent quartz or ceramic ampoules with high definition video imaging available in real-time along with remote commanding of thermal control parameters. 
Grip:  The crew completed the second of three dynamic seated GRIP operations. ESA’s Grip investigation tests how the nervous system takes into account the forces due to gravity and inertia when manipulating objects.  Results from this investigation may provide insight into potential hazards for astronauts as they manipulate objects in different gravitational environments, support design and control of haptic interfaces to be used in challenging environments such as space, and provide information about motor control that will be useful for the evaluation and rehabilitation of impaired upper limb control in patients with neurological diseases.  
Multi-Omics:  Immediately upon awakening, a crewmember collected and processed saliva samples prior to inserting the samples into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The Multi-omics analysis of human microbial-metabolic cross-talk in the space ecosystem (Multi-Omics) investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function, by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the gut microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system. 
Marrow:  A crewmember collected blood samples for their Flight Day 5 session of CSA’s Marrow today. Air samples were also collected to support the Marrow investigation. Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
External Wireless Communication System (EWC) Ethernet Cable Connection: This morning, the crew routed and installed an Ethernet cable in the US Lab needed to activate the EWC system scheduled for installation during Thursday’s US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #51 Node 2 External Wireless Communications (EWC).  Mating this cable to the J14 Gore Panel allows for a checkout of the system while the crew are outside of ISS. 
EVA Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session: Today the crew tasked with providing Intravehicular (IV) Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) support during Thursday’s US EVA #51 Node 2 EWC performed a robotics procedure review and an On-Board Training (OBT) session using ROBoT. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. 

