
Nanoracks-Remove Debris Satellite (RemDeb): Today ground specialists used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to remove RemDeb from the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) Slide Table and maneuvered to the deploy position.  RemDeb demonstrates an approach to reducing the risks presented by space debris or “space junk”. Collisions in space may have serious consequences, but research has shown that removing the largest debris significantly reduces the chance of collisions. NanoRacks-Remove Debris demonstrates using a 3D camera to map location and speed of debris and deploying a net to capture and de-orbit simulated debris up to 1m in size. Ground experts will then analyze video of the demonstration runs. Deployment of RemDeb is scheduled for 6:30 AM CT tomorrow morning. 
Human Research Program (Biochemical Profile, Marrow, and Repository):  Earlier today, a 55S crewmember collected urine and blood samples for their Flight Day 15 session of the Biochem Profile and Repository investigations and their Flight Day 10 session of CSA’s Marrow investigation. 

The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. The repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Myotones:  The crew performed Myotones skin marking science runs and transferred the data to a laptop after the conclusion of the run. ESA’s Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation can provide a better understanding of the principles of human resting muscle tone which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions. 
Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME):  The crew cleaned soot from the burner that was caused during the last E Field Flame test, where a positive field drove the soot towards the burner assembly rather than away. Today’s activities will allow the science operations to resume. The ACME experiment series being performed in the CIR includes five independent studies of gaseous flames. The primary goals of ACME are to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollutant production in routine fuel combustion activities on Earth.  Its secondary goal is to improve spacecraft fire prevention through innovative research focused on materials flammability. 
MagVector:  The crew installed a 3D sensor array in preparation for upcoming science runs. ESA’s MagVector investigation studies how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research not only helps improve future International Space Station experiments and electrical experiments, but it could offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general, the backbone of our technology.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub and Conductivity Test:  As part of the post-US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) 51 activities, the crew performed EMU water loop scrubs and then acquired and tested water samples for conductivity.  These activities are required for long term health monitoring and maintenance of the EMUs.
ISS Emergency Hardware Familiarization Onboard Training (OBT): The ISS Commander guided the newly arrived 55S crew through a review of all of the ISS Emergency Hardware.  This activity provides familiarization with the locations of equipment and the positions of valves used in emergencies.  They also practiced communication from the Russian modules in case of emergency.  Following the review, they reported the results to both Moscow and Houston ground specialists.   

