
Smoke in Service Module (SM) Update:  Yesterday the Russian crew reported smoke and a burning smell coming from the Water Dispensing and Heating Unit (БРП-М). The unit was subsequently dismantled, bagged, and stowed in the Progress. There was a spare unit onboard so earlier today, Flight Engineer (FE)-4 Artemyev performed a leak check and installed the unit which was later activated. The crew inspected the old unit but did not find anything off nominal.
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: Commander (CDR) Swanson replaced the igniters, needles, fiber arm, and fuel reservoirs in the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) in support of FLEX-2 operations. FLEX-2 tests are scheduled to resume tomorrow. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Skin-B Sample Collection: FE-6 Gerst conducted his first Skin-B data collection using the Tewameter probe to measure the skin barrier function; the Visioscan Camera to measure skin surface topography; and the Corneometer probe to measure skin hydration. The Skin-B experiment will improve understanding of skin aging, which is slow on Earth but very much accelerated in space. This will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general. The data could help in determining impact on astronauts on future missions to the Moon and Mars for example where environmental conditions are more challenging.
Cardio Ox Ultrasound Operations: With FE-5 Wiseman as an operator, Gerst collected ultrasound data for the Cardio Ox investigation. The goal of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15, and 60 days after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
Ocular Health Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT): With Swanson as an operator, Gerst collected baseline data for the OCT part of the Ocular Health investigation. OCT measures retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003: In preparation for EMU 3003 checkout scheduled for tomorrow, Gerst removed the Short EMU Launch Enclosure (SLE) hardware and using components from EMUs 3003 and 3005, resized the suit for Swanson. 

