
VECTION: The crew performed a Vection experiment session. The objective of the study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, and how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
Life Support Rack (LSR): The crew removed the Waste Water Bus inlet filter today, replacing it with an alternate filter configuration so the previously used filter can be installed for use with the Water Storage System (WSS). LSR is a Technology Demonstrator for Closed Loop Air Revitalization. It captures carbon dioxide from cabin air and recovers 50% of its oxygen for use by the astronauts. LSR will operate for a minimum of one year on the ISS to demonstrate the robustness of the technology for future Exploration Missions.
Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer 11 (J-SSOD#11): The JSSOD deployer successfully launched four satellites and the crew performed imagery operations during the deployments. J-SSOD provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS. It is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD is installed on the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) by crewmembers, it is passed through the JEM airlock for retrieval, positioning, and deployment by the JEMRMS.
Fiber Optic Production (FOP): The crew performed a preform and spool exchange allowing the ground to initiate a fiber optic print run. The Fiber Optic Production investigation creates optical fibers with high commercial value aboard the ISS using a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium, and aluminum called ZBLAN. It operates in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). Extensive theoretical studies along with a limited number of experimental studies suggest that ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity should exhibit far superior qualities to those produced on Earth. The resulting optical fiber from Fiber Optic Production is expected to help verify these studies and guide further engineering efforts to manufacture high value optical fiber in large volume aboard the ISS.
Rodent Research-12 (RR-12): The crew completed a conference with the NASA Rodent Research and the JAXA Mouse Mission teams to discuss logistics and operational lessons learned for both animal research projects. Rodent Research-12 examines the effects of spaceflight on the function of antibody production and immune memory. Spaceflight is known to have a dramatic influence on immune response, but there is little research on its effect following an actual challenge to the body’s immune system. Using a mouse model makes this possible, as the mouse immune system closely parallels that of humans. 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED): The crew inspected the X-rotation dashpots, cycled the main arm through full range of motion and greased the Vibration Isolation System (VIS) rails and rollers. Regularly scheduled quarterly maintenance, this activity is required to ensure ARED remains fully functional as an exercise resource on-board ISS.
On-Board Training (OBT) Soyuz Descent Training: In preparation for 57S departure scheduled for June 24, Oleg and David performed today’s OBT using a Soyuz simulator. During the drill, they practiced a nominal descent and the transition to Manual Entry Control [РУС]. Responses to emergencies caused by nominal decent hazards were also reviewed.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Over the weekend, Robotics Ground Controllers extracted the Flight Releasable Active Mechanism (FRAM) spare Battery Charge/Discharge Unit (BCDU) from External Stowage Platform (ESP) 3 Site 6, removed the empty BCDU Flight Support Equipment (FSE) FRAM from ELC-1 Site 4 and installed the spare BDCU FRAM into the freed location on site 4. Finally, they installed the empty BCDU FSE FRAM to ESP 3 Site 6 completing FRAM relocation operations. These activities are needed to support the upcoming Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) EVA and makes room for the spare Li-ION battery arriving on SpX-18.
Port Crew Quarters (CQ) Cleaning: In preparation for the return of 57S next week, the crew performed this scheduled maintenance to clean intake and exhaust ducts, fans and airflow sensors. Pre-cleaning photos were taken throughout the procedure to help evaluate the effectiveness of the recently installed inlet screens.
Live Public Affairs Office (PAO) Event: Koch and McClain participated in a live event with CNN in New York, New York and “Our State” Magazine in Greensboro, North Carolina this morning.  Today’s event, portions of which will be broadcast on NASA-TV, will help connect operations on-board ISS with the upcoming anniversary of the Apollo 11 landing.

