
Sprint Operations: Commander (CDR) Swanson conducted his Flight Day (FD) 75 Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) protocol using the Blood Pressure (BP)/Electrocardiogram (ECG) hardware. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in International Space Station (ISS) crewmembers during long-duration missions. 
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst conducted a flame test for the BASS-II investigation today. This investigation examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The BASS-II experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Resist Tubule: Swanson retrieved the Resist Tubule Measurement Experiment Unit B from inside the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) 1-gravity Incubator Unit (IU) and inserted the samples into the Clean Bench (CB) microscope for observation. Resist Tubule clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance. Gravity resistance is a principal gravity response in plants, and plays an important role in the transition of plant ancestors from an aquatic environment to a terrestrial environment (about 450 million years ago), and in the consequent establishment of land plants. This present study clarifies the mechanisms of gravity resistance, in particular the processes from signal transformation and transduction, to response.
Cardio Ox Ultrasound Operations: With Gerst as an operator, FE-5 Wiseman collected FD 15 ultrasound and BP data for the Cardio Ox investigation. The goal of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15, and 60 after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
Circadian Rhythms: Gerst donned the Circadian Rhythms equipment and will wear it for 36 hours. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Node 3 Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Heat Exchanger Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew completed an R&R of the failed CCAA heat exchanger installed in the Node 3 mid-bay.  While working the procedure they needed to connect the Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) supply/return lines for the new heat exchanger opposite of how the previous heat exchanger was connected due to opposite keying of the connectors.  As a result, ITCS flow through the heat exchanger will be reversed and the heat exchanger may not operate as efficiently.  The heat exchanger is being activated in this configuration while the ground does further investigation.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003: Gerst completed EMU 3003 activities today when he dumped and filled the EMU feedwater tanks. This follows the successful resize for Swanson and 3-part checkout of the suit completed earlier this week. 

