ISS On-Orbit Status 06/16/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
Before breakfast &amp; first exercise, CDR Borisenko, FE-1 Samokutyayev &amp; FE-4 Volkov each took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis, one of four Russian crew health status assessments currently being conducted (the other three: MO-3 (Physical Fitness Evaluation), MO-7 (Calf Volume Measurement) &amp; MO-8 (Body Mass Measurement).  Afterwards, Sergei closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware.      [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam, also conducted today.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally by Boehringer (Mannheim/Germany) for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]
 
After wakeup, FE-5 Furukawa started his first 24-hr series of NUTRITION/Repository urine sample collections, with samples stored in MELFI, to be concluded tomorrow morning.     [Urine samples go into MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS) within 30 minutes after collection.  Every individual urine/blood sample tube must be labeled with time of void and Crew ID.  Barcodes can be called down, placed in crew notes or the barcode reader can be used.  For the blood draw, there is a prior 8-hr fasting requirement, i.e., no food or drink, but water consumption is highly encouraged to ensure proper hydration.  Exercise should not be conducted during the 8 hrs prior to the blood draw.]
 
Also after wakeup, FE-3 Garan underwent the associated NUTRITION w/Repository generic blood draw, with Satoshi assisting with the phlebotomy as operator.  Ron then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI.
 
Samokutyayev configured the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment, then conducted his 2<sup>nd</sup> 65-min session, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data were downlinked via OCA.       [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]
 
Samokutyayev also wound up the installation of the ATV PCE (Automated Transfer Vehicle / Proximity Communications Equipment; Russian: MBRL) hardware in the SM (Service Module), for the upcoming undocking &amp; prox ops of ATV2 “Johannes Kepler” by mating the cable connectors of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system to the MBRL BUAP antenna switch control unit and the PU control panel.  The ground then began to check out the installation via S-band, with Alex monitoring the testing and tagging up with ground specialists.     [PCE uses the external WAL3 (Low Gain) and WAS2 (Medium Gain) antennas on the SM.]
 
Later, FE-1 performed maintenance on the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system in the SM, installing a new Soyuz 27S-delivered ZU1A memory/recording device (EA025M) where Oleg Skripochka had removed one of the four ZU units on 2/7/11 behind panels 313 &amp; 314.   BITS2-12 and VD-SU control mode were unpowered during the operation.    [BITS2-12 is the primary telemetry downlink path for both FGB and SM parameters.  The system collects, records, and transmits measurement data concerning all RS (Russian Segment) systems, science hardware and health status parameters of crewmembers to the ground.  It provides ground specialists with insight in RS systems operations.]
 
Samokutyayev also replaced the BPA-M nitrogen purging unit (#23) in the SM with a new BPA-M (#24) and remated its telemetry connections for the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> (oxygen) generator system.     [BPA-M is employed to pressurize the Elektron BZh Liquid Unit with N<sub>2</sub>.]
 
Using the BPA-M later for purging, Andrey Borisenko had ~2 hrs set aside for troubleshooting the failed Russian Elektron O<sub>2 </sub>generator.  The electrolysis machine had received the spare (albeit used) BZh #056 on 5/18 but failed to function after several subsequent repair attempts by Samokutyayev.     [A new BZh will be delivered on Progress 43P on 6/23.]
 
In COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-6 installed &amp; configured the equipment for the next ESA PASSAGES experiment sessions, setting up the ESA MPL (Multipurpose Laptop) BIOS and installing the PASSAGES gear (NeuroSpat light shield, trackball) in front of the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack.  Mike Fossum &amp; Satoshi Furukawa then each conducted the session as subjects (no glasses allowed), their first onboard, collecting science data on the EPM laptop.  Mike later tore down and stowed the equipment.     [PASSAGES is designed to test how astronauts interpret visual information in weightlessness: it aims at studying the effects of micro-G on the use of the ‘Eye-Height’ strategy for estimating allowed actions in an environment, and whether this could possibly decrease after a long exposure to weightlessness.]
 
In support of ground-conducted leak checking of the HRF2 (Human Research Facility 2) ventline in the ESA COL, Satoshi disconnected the ventline umbilical from the UIP (Utility Interface Panel) at loc. A4.
 
Also in COL, ground payload controllers today started the GeoFlow-2 experiment using the FSL (Fluid Science Laboratory).  The experiment runs will be performed by ground commanding during the next 5 months until November.  Because of its sensitivity to micro-G disturbances, the crew should avoid touching FSL.     [Objective of this German experiment is to study thermal convection in the gap between two concentric rotating spheres.  A central symmetric force field, similar to the gravity field acting on planets, can be produced by applying a high voltage between the inner and outer spheres.  This experiment is of importance for astrophysical and geophysical problems, such as global scale flow in the atmosphere, the oceans, and in the liquid nucleus of planets. GeoFlow-2 follows the same science objectives as Geoflow-1 but it has a modified fluid sample.  (Sponsored by Brandenburg University of Technology Cottbus, Cottbus, Germany).]
 
FE-3 Garan completed final ATV2 cargo transfer operations, finishing up on loading “Johannes Kepler” with trash and excessed gear.  At ~2:05pm EDT, Mike held a tagup with the ground to brief specialists on the state of transfers.     [Today’s cargo consisted of common trash in 3 jettison stowage bags, 30 empty US collapsible food containers and several KTO solid waste containers.  There will be one more session tomorrow, for taking and downlinking close-out pictures.] 
 
Later, Ron performed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.       [The new card (28-0014A) lists 103 CWCs (2,341 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (21 CWCs with 846.4 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 562.2 L in 14 bags containing Wautersia bacteria and 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use;  2. Silver potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (70 CWCs with 1,278.3 L (also 35 expired or leaking bags with 641.5 L);  4. condensate water (180.7 L in 8 bags, plus 2 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (35.6 L in 2 CWCs, incl. 20.2 L from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health],
 
The CDR copied the structural dynamics data of the latest ISS reboost from the BUSD Control &amp; Data Gathering Unit of the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) payload to a USB-D-M-3 stick for downlink to the ground.  TEKh-15 was then turned off.     [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control &amp; Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]
 
Andrey also downloaded structural dynamics measurements of the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer of the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.    [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.]
 
After configuring STTS communication systems temporarily for crew presence in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, Borisenko conducted another active session with the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), supported by ground specialist tagup.  STTS was then reconfigured to nominal.  Andrey later set up the two SONY HVR-Z1J video camcorders for replaying and downlinking their recorded footage over RGS (Russian Groundsite) at 9:56am-10:18am EDT.        [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
As a refresher, FE-4 Volkov ran a 45-min test session of the KPT-3 aerial photography program for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, taking pictures of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop. 
 
Sergei also had another 2 hrs reserved for unloading Soyuz 27S and transferring cargo to the ISS, keeping track of moves in the IMS (Inventory management System) database.
 
FE-5 Furukawa performed his first session of the new Treadmill Kinematics program on the T2/COLBERT treadmill, setting up the HD camcorder in Node-1, placing tape markers on his body, recording a calibration card in the FOV (Field of View) and then conducting the workout run within a specified speed range.       [Purpose of the Kinematics T2 experiment is to collect quantitative data by motion capture from which to assess current exercise prescriptions for participating ISS crewmembers.  Detailed biomechanical analyses of locomotion will be used to determine if biomechanics differ between normal and microgravity environments and to determine how combinations of external loads and exercise speed influence joint loading during in-flight treadmill exercise.  Such biomechanical analyses will aid in understanding potential differences in gait motion and allow for model-based determination of joint &amp; muscle forces during exercise. The data will be used to characterize differences in specific bone and muscle loading during locomotion in the two gravitational conditions.  By understanding these mechanisms, appropriate exercise prescriptions can be developed that address deficiencies.]
 
In the Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Satoshi afterwards continued preparing the MELFI-3 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 3) for Stage ULF6 preservative storage needs by retrieving 4 ice bricks (-32 degC) and one half Box Module and inserting them in Dewar 2, Tray C/Sections 1, 2.
 
Satoshi also reconfigured the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer) unit by replacing unit #1004 with a new one, #1001.       [#1004 has chalked up 37 sessions after it had replaced the earlier instrument, #1002, which was used for approximately 7 runs.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop (due to a software glitch, the software needs to be opened, closed, and then reopened in order to ensure good communication between GC/DMS and SSC-12).  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.
 
Later, for capturing and downloading science data to SSIPC (Space Station Integration &amp; Promotion Center/Tsukuba), the Japanese flight engineer activated the SNFM4 (Serial Network Flow Monitor 4) for LAN-2 (Local Area Network 2) using the ELC4 (EXPRESS Rack 4 Laptop Computer) for the data downlink.
 
In the US A/L (Airlock), FE-3 Garan terminated charging of the Li-Ion EMU LLB (Lithium-Ion Extravehicular Mobility Unit / Long Life Batteries) initiated yesterday and started the first round of EVA battery charging in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly) for his &amp; Mike’s ULF7 EVA.     [First round of charging involves 4 EHIP (EMU Helmet Interchangeable Portable) light and 4 PGT (Pistol Grip Tool) batteries plus 2 REBAs (Rechargeable EMU Battery Assemblies).]
 
Andrey conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Sergei meanwhile took care of the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
With its battery recharged overnight, Samokutyayev set up the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) hardware at SM window #2 for another sun-glint observation session, using the hand-held spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor), synchronized with the coaxially mounted NIKON D2X camera for taking snapshots, and later downloaded the data to laptop RS1 for subsequent downlink via OCA.  The equipment was then torn down and stowed away.      [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere],
 
In another crew handover segment, Aleksandr spent about an hour with Sergei to bring him up to par with RS (Russian Segment) tasks. 
 
There was also a crew handover session in the USOS (US Segment), with Ron coaching Satoshi &amp; Mike for about an hour.
 
The three new 27S crewmembers again had about an hour of free time for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization &amp; acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.
 
FE-6 &amp; FE-3 reviewed uplinked procedures for their single EVA during the STS-135/ULF7 docked period and afterwards tagged up with ground specialists at ~12:20pm to discuss details.      [EVA activities by Mike &amp; Ron will include removal of the failed PMA (Pump Module Assembly) from ESP-2 for return to Earth in the Orbiter payload bay, retrieval of the RRM (Robotics Refueling Mission) from the payload bay and its transferral to the SPDM EOTP (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator / Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform), installation of the MISSE 8 ORMatE-III (Materials ISS Experiment 8 / Optical Reflector Materials Experiment III) on the ISS, plus additional tasks.]
 
At ~11:15am EDT, Borisenko, Samokutyayev &amp; Volkov supported a Russian PAO TV downlink via RGS (Russian Ground Sites), responding to questions from representatives of CCTV (Central Television of China).     [CCTV, which has a large audience, will air the upcoming visit to Russia of the Head of Government of the People’s Republic of China.]
 
At ~2:15pm, Ron Garan conducted the regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
At ~3:40pm, the six crewmembers will have their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office (Steve Lindsey), via S-band S/G-2 audio &amp; phone patch.
 
Before “Presleep” period tonight, Garan will power on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).
 
Plaque Hanging:   At 12:00pm EDT, the traditional official plaque hanging took place in ISS Mission Control/Houston for the ULF6 Plaque.
 
ISS Reboost Update:  Yesterday’s ISS reboost by ATV2 was performed on time (11:55am) with an outstanding precision that has never been reached for such a maneuver since the Apollo TLI (Trans-Lunar Injection) burns by the Saturn V S-IVB stage.  Burn duration was 39 min 40 sec, resulting in a delta-V of 5.84 m/s (19.2 ft/s).  Mean altitude gain: 10.2 km (5.5 nmi).  ISS now is at a mean altitude of 374.7 km (202.3 nmi), with 379.2 km (204.7 nmi) apogee &amp; 370 km (199.9 nmi) perigee height.  There will be one more reboost on Saturday (6/18), at 12:21pm: burn duration 26 min 53 sec, for a delta-V of 3.93 m/s.  Purpose of the ATV reboosts is to deplete ATV2 of remaining propellants and set up phasing for Progress 43P and ULF7.
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked today were Polar Mesospheric Clouds over Asia &amp; Europe.     [Current daylight-awake orbit tracks have transitioned into a seasonal pattern in which they temporarily parallel the terminator.  Consequently most of the nadir views of CEO target areas fall below the criteria for illumination, with darkness to the right of track and adequate lighting left of track.  Today none of the standard target areas has sufficient illumination.  This condition is expected to persist for the next 7-10 days.  Meanwhile, CEO researchers are continuing to look for dynamic events targets for which oblique views to left of track may be useful or nighttime targets.  Auroral activity in the Northern Hemisphere has spiked recently with the dramatic solar flare on 6/7.  May-June is also the seasonal peak period for observing noctilucent clouds (a.k.a. polar mesospheric clouds) in the Northern Hemisphere.]
 


