
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Operations: Kelly opened the outer hatch and extended the JEMAL Slide Table (ST) to the JEM Exposed Facility (JEF).  Ground controllers then maneuvered the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) with the Free-Space Passive Dosimeter for Life-Science Experiment in Space (Free-Space PADLES) to the ST and docked them followed by retraction of the ST back into the JEMAL.  On Wednesday, the Free-Space PADLES will be removed from the table for return.  Free-Space PADLES is an investigation that uses a Sealed Free-Space Dosimeter to measure radiation doses outside the International Space Station (ISS). The obtained results are used for verification of the ISS hull wall shielding contribution, and a benchmark study to develop existing simulation codes and space radiation models for present, and future, human space flight activities.
SUPVIS-E:  Kelly installed the SUPVIS-E software on an ISS laptop in advance of the European Space Agency (ESA) short duration mission crewmember’s arrival on 44 Soyuz.  SUPVIS-E aims at simulating selected future Human exploration scenarios including immersive remote control of a robot by an astronaut in orbit around a target object (such as Mars or the Moon). A crew member will control the ESA test rover located at ESOC (Germany) in near real time.
On Board Training (OBT) Robotics On-Board Trainer (RoBOT): In preparation for the arrival of SpaceX (SpX)-7, Padalka and Kelly completed a session of this training. With assistance from ground teams, they covered the Dragon mission profile, rendezvous crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding drag. Following the OBT the crew and ground teams discussed results.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) Routine Maintenance: Kelly Removed & Replaced (R&R) the WHC UR and insert filter. Following replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was successfully performed.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics ground controllers surveyed the International Docking Adapter (IDA) cables on Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)-2 in preparation for the future IDA install Extravehicular Activity (EVA). The ground team is current relocating the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 2 to the Lab PDGF in preparation for SpX-7 capture. 

