ISS On-Orbit Status 06/17/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – Crew off duty.  Ahead:  Week 8 of Increment 31 (six-person crew).
 
After wakeup, Oleg Kononenko performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
Gennady Padalka completed the routine daily &amp; weekly servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM and FGB.     [This included the weekly collection of the ASU toilet flush counter (SPKU) and water supply (SVO) readings of SM &amp; FGB for calldown to TsUP-Moscow, as well as the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s &amp; FGB’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for calldown.  SOZh servicing includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers as required.]
 
In the MRM2 Poisk module, FE-1 Padalka continued the twice-daily checking of vacuum/pressure conditions in the Plasma Chamber of the KPT-21 PK-3+ Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall-3 plus) Telescience payload for upcoming operations.       [The PK-3+ equipment comprises the EB (Eksperimental’nyj Blok) Experiment Module with a turbopump for evacuation, Ts laptop, video monitor, vacuum hoses, electrical circuitry, four hard storage disks for video, and one USB stick with the control application.  The experiment is performed on plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber.  Main objective is to obtain a homogeneous plasma dust cloud at various pressures and particle quantities with or without superimposition of an LF (low frequency) harmonic electrical field.  The experiment is conducted in automated mode.  PK-3+ has more advanced hardware and software than the previously used Russian PKE-Nefedov payload.]
 
Don Pettit serviced in the NanoRacks Module 9 in the Lab, activating mixing tube 8 (at 8:30am EDT).
 
Later, Don conducted a series of self-requested tests of his new iPad tablet, checking WiFi signal strengths of the device in the ISS, at module centers.
 
FE-3, FE-5, &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences), via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), André at ~10:15am, Don at ~11:50am, Joe at ~3:45pm EDT.
 
At ~7:00am, Kononenko, Padalka &amp; Revin supported a Russian PAO TV event, downlinking their responses to interview questions from China’s Central TV (CCTV) Russian Bureau on the subject of yesterday’s successful launch of Shenzhou 9, with the first Chinese female cosmonaut (taikonaut) to the Tiangong-1 mini space station.  Correspondents from CCTV, the largest state owned TV company in China with viewership of more than a billion people, were present at TsUP-Moscow to ask questions. 
 
At ~10:15am, Joe activated the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) routing to downlink the recording of his Amine Swingbed assembly and checkout on 6/15, stopping it at ~2:30pm.      [The 6/15 activity was its first activation after the recent fuse and motor R&amp;R.  During the checkout, the Swingbed valve was commanded to position 2, however the valve did not fully travel.  The crew was able to adjust the position sensor to properly align it.  The Amine Swingbed determines if a vacuum-regenerated amine system can effectively remove CO<sub>2</sub> (carbon dioxide) from the ISS atmosphere using a smaller more efficient vacuum regeneration system. The Amine Swingbed will be installed next week, and a 24-hour leak check will be conducted immediately following installation in order to gather leak rate data at each of the three valve positions.   Upon completion of the leak checks, the Amine Swingbed will move into science test points 1-3.   Following those test points, there will be a 7-day stand-down to review the data.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR/2x, FE-1, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (FE-1, FE-3, FE-5, E-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO bike ergometer with load trainer (FE-2).        [FE-6 is on the special experimental SPRINT protocol which diverts from the regular 2.5 hrs per day exercise regime and introduces special daily sessions involving resistive and aerobic (interval &amp; continuous) exercise, followed by a USND (Ultrasound) leg muscle self scan in COL.  No exercise is being timelined for Fridays.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.  If any day is not completed, Don picks up where he left off, i.e., he would be finishing out the week with his last day of exercise on his off day.] 
 

