
Vascular Echo: The crew performed Blood pressure measurement setup and performed 14 measurements in support of the Vascular Echo study. The Vascular Echo experiment examines changes in blood vessels, and the heart, while the crewmembers are in space, and then follow their recovery on return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crewmember health, and quality of life for everyone. 
Capillary Structures: The crew performed day one of the Sorbent Science 4-cell demonstration involving fluid flow through parallel open capillary conduits. Current life-support systems on the ISS require special equipment to separate liquids and gases, including rotating or moving devices that could cause contamination if they break or fail. The investigation studies a new method using structures of specific shapes to manage fluid and gas mixtures as well as water recycling and carbon dioxide removal, benefiting future efforts to design lightweight, more reliable life support systems for future space missions.
Genes in Space-6: The crew prepared the miniPCR and performed part 4 of the CRISPR yeast growth biomolecule sequencing operation. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage caused by increased exposure to radiation can affect the long-term health of astronauts. Genes in Space-6 determines the optimal DNA repair mechanisms that cells use in the spaceflight environment. The investigation evaluates the entire process in space for the first time by inducing DNA damage in cells and assessing mutation and repair at the molecular level using the miniPCR and the Biomolecule Sequencer tools aboard the space station.
MISSE-FF (Materials ISS Experiment Flight Facility): Ground robotics team are currently position swapping the MISSE Mission Science Canisters (MSC) #7 and 17 as part of troubleshooting steps. The primary Materials ISS Experiment Flight Facility (MISSE-FF) platform provides the ability to test materials, coatings, and components or other larger experiments in the harsh environment of space, which is virtually impossible to do collectively on Earth. Testing in low-Earth orbit (LEO) allows the integrated testing of how materials react to exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UV), atomic oxygen (AO), ionizing radiation, ultrahigh vacuum (UHV), charged particles, thermal cycles, electromagnetic radiation, and micro-meteoroids in the LEO environment. 
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Hard Upper Torso (HUT) Remove & Replace (R&R): There are 12 EVAs planned during the Increments 60/61 timeframe. All assigned EVA crewmembers use a medium or large HUT. Today the crew swapped the extra large HUT in EMU 3004 with a medium HUT. There are now 2 medium and 2 large HUTs available, providing maximum crew assignment flexibility. The crew also R&Rd the ILC Voltage Regular (ILCVR) on EMU 3006 that is suspected to have previously caused a short in the Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA). The failed ILCVR will be returned to ground for evaluation.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Arm2 to unstow the Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) #2 from the Tool Holster Assembly (THA) and maneuvered SSRMS and SPDM to the start position in preparation for Materials ISS Experiment (MISSE) operations beginning today.

