
New Status:
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-4 Operations: ATV4 hatch opening occurred early this morning with air samples taken by Vinogradov and Parmitano.  Vinogradov installed quick-release clamps along the hatchway and initiated an air scrubbing which processed and cleaned the ATV4 atmosphere for approximately 4 hours. Following the cleaning crew ingressed the vehicle again taking post-cleaning air samples, performed routine cabin fan cleaning, installed an acoustic cover and began cargo operations. Bags that have exceeded levels of microbial growth will be cleaned with Fungistat as they are accessed prior to transferring to the ISS.
On-Board Training (OBT) ATV Emergency Review: All six crew members participated in this ATV emergency training. The activity familiarized the crew with location of ATV hardware used in emergencies and also covered depressurization procedures and fire suppression.
Spinal Ultrasound: Cassidy completed his second of three planned Spinal Ultrasound scans with Nyberg as the operator and with remote guidance from ground specialists. The Crew Medical Restraint System (CMRS) was used for subject positioning.  Spinal Ultrasound aims to use ground and space-based studies to characterize spinal changes during and after spaceflight.  Ground based pre- and post-flight Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and high fidelity ultrasound, combined with in-flight ultrasound will be used to characterize and assign a mission health risk to microgravity-associated spinal alterations for back pain and potential injury. This research will determine the accuracy of MRI and musculoskeletal ultrasound in characterizing the anatomy of the vertebral unit and develop novel imaging and training methodologies.
Fundamental and Applied Studies of Emulsion Stability  (FASES) Transfer: Following the initial cargo operations in the ATV, the FASES experiment hardware was relocated to the Columbus module in preparation for the installation and initiation of operations tomorrow.  The FASES experiment is a fluid science experiment that aims to examine the link between emulsion stability and physiochemical characteristics of droplet interfaces in order to obtain a better modeling of emulsion dynamics for Earth-based industrial applications.  The FASES experiment container delivered on ATV4 contains 44 life-limited samples that the crew will be inserting into the Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) for ground controllers to perform various remotely controlled runs with.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: Cassidy performed this routine maintenance today. The activity consists of verification that Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFE), Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBA), and Pre-Breathe Masks are all free of damage and are functional.
Ultrasonic Background Noise Test (UBNT): Cassidy configured a Station Support Computer (SSC) and downloaded data from the UBNT recorders. UBNT detects high-frequency sounds generated by hardware on the US segment of the ISS to aid in the development of an automated leak location system which would detect the difference between harmless background sounds and potentially catastrophic air leakage.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator System (SPDM) into a translation configuration. They then powered off the MSS and translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Worksite (WS) 5 to WS4 which is the normal parked position for the MT. During the SSRMS and SPDM configuration operations, the SSRMS Base Elbow camera image went white. Ground Controllers power cycled the camera and the image was recovered but the white image will be investigated. Also during the MT translation a recurrence of MT Translate Bogey Wheel Switch Data Discrepancy was seen but had no impact on translation. With the exception of these two anomalies, MSS and MT performance was nominal. This translation was in preparation for upcoming SSRMS checkout operations for H-II Transfer Vehicle 4 (HTV-4).


