
New Status:
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) On-Board Training (OBT): Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy, FE-5 Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg completed their CMO OBT. This is a Computer Based Training (CBT) module that requires no ground interaction and is performed periodically to maintain proficiency for designated onboard CMOs.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-C1 Experiment Pre-Mix: Cassidy pre-mixed samples inside the slow growth sample module. This allows the colloidal material to be freed from inside the cap area of the cuvette which will improve the quality of the science when sample processing begins at a later time.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Swap: Cassidy deactivated the LAB1S6 CCAA and terminated the Low Temperature Loop (LTL) flow through its heat exchanger. He then activated the LAB1P6 CCAA and initiated LTL flow through its heat exchanger. This activity is for condensate collection and to prevent overloading any one system.
DEvice for the study of Critical LIquids and Crystallization (DECLIC): Nyberg removed and replaced the hard drive, then she removed the Alice-Like Insert (ALI) from the DECLIC experiment locker and installed the High Temperature Insert (HTI) in the locker. This activity is in preparation for the first session planned for July. The investigation is important for the development of cooling systems for use in space as well as systems which may be useful in waste disposal and recycling on Earth.
Periodic Health Status (PHS) Evaluation Without Blood: Parmitano conducted a periodic health status check without blood draws with assistance from Cassidy as CMO. This test is a routine heath status check crewmembers conduct while on orbit.
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT): Nyberg unstowed, inspected and performed initial checkout of the new OCT hardware which uses reflected light to produce detailed cross-sectional and three-dimensional images of structures of the eye. It complements other hardware used on orbit to study the visual impairment and intracranial pressure risk faced by crewmembers on long-duration flights.
Biological Rhythms 48 Holter Data Save: Parmitano removed the Digital Walk Holter ECG and Actiwatch Spectrum from his body following 48 hours of wearing the devices. He transferred the data for downlink to the ground. The investigation examines the circadian variations in the cardiac autonomic function during space flight. Results will be used to improve crew health technology on long-duration space flights.

