ISS On-Orbit Status 06/24/10
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   
 
  FE-5 Yurchikhin began the day with the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 again inspected the filters before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
  Also at wake-up, FE-4 Wheelock started out on his first session of the medical Pro K protocol (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.     [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken during the day.]
 
  CDR Skvortsov, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson &amp; FE-3 Kornienko joined up in the Soyuz 22S spacecraft (docked at the MRM2 Poisk module) for the standard 3-hr Soyuz Emergency Descent Drill, a regular procedure for each station crew.  The exercise, which does not involve any command activation, uses computer simulation (Trenasher Spusk/”descent trainer”) on the RSK1 laptop, with a descent hand controller (RUS) in manual mode to set up reentry conditions and switch between modes.    [The onboard training (OBT) session, supported by TsUP instructor tagup, included a review of the pertinent RODF (Russian Operations Data Files), specifically the books on Soyuz Insertion &amp; Descent Procedures, Emergency Descents, and Off-Nominal Situation Procedures such as manual undocking.]
 
  After yesterday’s installation of a new vacuum pump in the Russian Vozdukh CO<sub>2</sub> absorption system, Kornienko today switched the unit from main (Manual) mode to Automatic control mode for his subsequent maintenance work on the SUBA/Onboard Equipment Control System.  Afterwards, Vozdukh was moded back to Manual.
 
  FE-3 then worked for about 1h40m in the SM (Service Module) on completing the installation of SUBA IUS/Rate Sensor interface cables, started on 5/11, which connect the BSK (Common Power Switching Timer, Blok silovoiy kommutatsii) with other electronics packages such as BSV-M Master Clock, Liulin-MKS Electronics Unit, BSMM Multiplex Bus Synchronization Unit/computer, BSPN Payload Server, etc.
 
  In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Doug Wheelock ran the third onboard science session with the ESA PASSAGES experiment, after setting up the VCA1 video camera to cover the activities, operating the experiment from the EPM (European Physiology Module) laptop.     [After installing the experiment equipment (light shield, trackball) on the MPL (Multipurpose Laptop) in front of the EPM, FE-4 conducted Session 1 of the science data collection as the subject, then stowed the equipment.  For downlinking the data, Wheels inserted the PASSAGES PCMCIA memory card into the EPM laptop and afterwards reconnected its power cable to its original EDR (European Drawer Rack) laptop.  The PCMCIA was placed in the PASSAGES kit, which was then put back in the NeuroSpat kit.  PASSAGES is designed to test how astronauts interpret visual information in weightlessness: it aims at studying the effects of micro-G on the use of the ‘Eye-Height’ strategy for estimating allowed actions in an environment, and whether this could possibly decrease after a long exposure to weightlessness.]
 
  Later, after unstowing and configuring the hardware for the BISE (Bodies in the Space Environment) experiment, Wheelock took his first BISE session, with Caldwell-Dyson recording the activities with the photo/video equipment.     [The CSA (Canadian Space Agency)-sponsored BISE experiment studies how astronauts perceive Up and Down in microgravity, investigating the relative contributions of internal &amp; external cues to self-orientation during and after micro-G exposure.  BISE data collection must be performed at least one hour after any exercise.  The specific objective of the BISE project is to conduct experiments during long-duration micro-G conditions to better understand how humans first adapt to micro-G and then re-adapt to normal gravity conditions upon return to earth.  This experiment involves comparisons of preflight, flight, and post-flight perceptions and mental imagery, with special reference to spaceflight-related decreases in the vertical component of percepts.  The test involves having subjects view a computer screen through a cylinder that blocks all other visual information. The astronauts are being presented with background images with different orientations relative to their bodies.]
 
  FE-6 Walker’s activities today focused mostly on the T2 advanced treadmill machine, first working her way through a procedure to troubleshoot the T2’s wireless connectivity issue which has prevented wireless transfer of prescription files from an SSC (Station Support Computer) to the T2 display.    [After swapping the WAP (Wireless Access Point) card and Pacebook wireless cards in the T2 display, Shannon manually transferred the T2 prescription files from the SSC.  Afterwards, FE-6 was to relabel the T2 MTL (Moderate Temperature Loop) umbilical panel and jumpers, followed by verifying resolution settings on the T2 display necessary for a properly calibrated touchscreen.]
 
  Afterwards, Shannon set up the video equipment to capture her own and Doug’s workout sessions on the T2/COLBERT for subsequent biomechanical evaluation of the crewmembers and hardware status.
 
  Later, with T2 powered down by ground commanding, Shannon had 3 hrs set aside for performing the 6-months maintenance of the advanced treadmill.    [Steps include cleaning closeout panels with the vacuum cleaner, replacing missing closeout panel fasteners and inspecting treadmill motor carriage bolts, drive belt, treadmill mounting screws, tread belt slats &amp; screws, plus vacuum-cleaning inside the T2 rack space and the filter screen.] 
 
  After reactivation of T2 by the ground later, Shannon was to conclude its 6-month IFM (Inflight Maintenance) with an ACO (Activation &amp; Checkout) session which subjected the machine to an unmanned speed characterization test.
 
  FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson performed the periodic status check &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-5 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5) payload in the Lab.
 
  Tracy also completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Contingency Water Container) inventory as part of the on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week for recording changes.   [The new card (24-0007B) lists 126 CWCs (2,977.2 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (28 CWCs with 1,129.6 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 714.7 L in 18 bags containing Wautersia bacteria, 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use, 129.4 L in 3 bags still requiring sample analysis, 128.3 L in 3 bags for flushing only with microbial filter, and 23.0 L in 1 bag for flushing only; 2. potable water (5 CWCs with 215.4 L, of which 1 bag with 43.6 L requires sample analysis, 1 bag with 42.5 L are to be used with microbial filter &amp; 129.3 L in 3 bags are good for contingency use;  3. iodinated water (84 CWCs with 1,550.1 L, including 18 CWCs with 331.7 L still requiring analysis);  4. condensate water (7 bags with 50.8 L, including 2 CWCs with 43.4 L that are to be used with microbial filter; and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (2 CWCs with 31.3 L).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.],
 
  Later, in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), Caldwell-Dyson worked on troubleshooting a synchronization issue between the DMC (Data Management Computer) with the ICS06 (Interconnecting Station 6) on Int1 Bus Channel B, first setting up the VCA2 (Video Camera Assembly 2) for monitoring the worksite in the starboard cone, temporarily clearing out obstructing cargo items, then going through a close inspection of ICS 6-4 connectors.  Afterwards, the work site was closed out and the cargo items replaced.    [DMC was in free-running mode.]
 
  Tracy performed the periodic status check on the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge, looking for any internal condensation moisture which would require replacing desiccants.    [MERLIN is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.  Tracy’s report: “Looks good in here”.]
  
  FE-2 also changed labels on 4 CWCs (Contingency Water Containers, #1084, #1085, #1090, #1091) from “Potable” to “Technical” since they have exceeded their shelf life for potable water.    [They will be used for flushing only and require microbial filtering.]
 
  Additionally, Caldwell-Dyson conducted the periodic inspection of PEPs (Portable Emergency Provisions) on board, checking PFEs (Portable Fire Extinguishers, PBAs (Portable Breathing Apparatus), EHTKs (Extension Hose Tee Kits) and QDMA (Quick-Don Mask Assembly) harnesses.     [PFEs: 2 in Node-1, 1 in A/L (Airlock), 2 in Lab,1 in Node-2, 1 in Node-3, 2 in JPM, 1 in JLP, 2 in COL.  PBA O<sub>2</sub> Bottles: 4 in Node-1, 5 in A/L, 2 in Lab, 2 in Node-2, 2 in Node-3, 2 in JPM, 2 in COL.  QDMAs: 5 in Node-1, 5 in A/L, 2 in Lab, 2 in Node-2, 2 in Node-3, 2 in JPM, 2 in COL.  EHTKs: 1 in Node-1, 2 in Lab, 2 in Node-2, 1 in Node-3. ] 
 
  FE-5 Yurchikhin again had ~2h set aside for transferring cargo from Soyuz TMA-19/23S and stowing it aboard ISS, guided by an uplinked 23S cargo stowage plan listing 63 individual items, and logging moves in the IMS (Inventory Management System).
 
  Yurchikhin later spent ~2h familiarizing himself with the location and purpose of the suite of RS (Russian Segment) laptop computers, the computer network, Ethernet outlets and routine laptop activities like antivirus updating, BRI Smart Router log monitoring, desktop cleanup settings, etc.     [The RS currently has six active laptops installed: RSS1, RSS2, RSK1, RSK2, RSE1, RSE-Med and one in stowage (RSE2).  RSS1, RSS2 &amp; RSK1 are networked (connected to BRI).  In addition, there are 1 printer, 1 ABP/WAP (Wireless Access Point), 1 KL-211 video system (BRI connected) and 1 ASP network connection adapter (BRI connected).  There are several Ethernet outlets in the SM for the onboard LAN (Local Area Network).]
 
  Fyodor also conducted the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.    [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Compartment)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, PkhO-MRM2, FGB PGO–FGB GA, and FGB GA–Node-1. This checkup is especially important when the ventilation/circulation system has to cope with a larger crew on board, recently twelve persons.]
 
  As did Shannon Walker yesterday in the Lab, Doug Wheelock today removed &amp; replaced expended HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in Node-2.    [Two of the used filters were stowed in the JAXA JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment).]
 
  In Node-3 (loc. A4), Wheels worked on the ARS (Atmosphere Revitalization Systems) rack to determine why a ground strap could not be installed on the rack and to correct the situation.     [After rack rotation away from the shell wall, the hardware was to be repaired or replaced as required.  Afterwards, the grounding strap was to be left disconnected pending the planned relocation of the ARS rack to the US Lab.] 
 
  FE-6 Walker unstowed the HASP (HMS Ancillary Supply Pack) for service, removing expired alkaline batteries for disposal (approx. 20 AA, 10 AAA &amp; 18 9-volt batteries).
 
  Shannon also filled out her first weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
  Alexander completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  Fyodor did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
  The Russian crewmembers had another joint 1-hr session dedicated to E23/E24 crew handover activities.
 
  Wheels, Fyodor &amp; Shannon again had an hour set aside for crew onboard orientation &amp; adaptation.     [The first two weeks after their arrival, a new ISS crew will have 1 hour a day to adjust to living in space.  Additional time is allotted for getting around in the – by now – extensive new “home in space” and working with its valuable research equipment.]
 
  At ~12:20pm EDT, Skvortsov, Kornienko &amp; Yurchikhin joined in downlinking messages of greetings to the “Invasion – 2010” celebration, the largest all-Russian open air music festival to be held from July 9-11 in the Tver region, with many noted musicians and bands participating as well as the aerobatic “Swifts” team with MIG-29 and the “Russian Knights” team with SU-27 jet planes.
 
  At ~2:05pm, the Russian crewmembers also filmed video footage of each other and onboard activities, intended for airing at the traditional Charity Festival at the Windlesham House School (West Sussex, UK), to be held July 3-4, attended by about 1500 students from schools of Great Britain and other countries. This year the festival is called "Odyssey".    [This was a repeat of an aborted downlink on 6/19.]
 
  At ~3:10pm, the crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H.
 
  The crew completed today’s 2-hr. physical workout protocol on CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2), TVIS treadmill (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-5).    [For his TVIS workout, Yurchikhin used the TVIS SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices) tailored for him.  The protective SPDs are required for new crewmembers for the first seven TVIS sessions for safety.  This was Fyodor’s 4<sup>th</sup> session.]
 
 High Beta Angle Power Restrictions:   Due to the current high solar Beta angle regime (ISS always in sunlight), the port SARJ (Solar Alpha Rotary Joint) and 2B solar array are feathered in Park position for thermal reasons (after a brief interruption yesterday to verify that there are no longeron shadowing issues), turning the solar panels away from the sun and thus reducing the output of the photovoltaic cells.  The reduced power requires carefully orchestrated power management by the ISS partners within assigned levels of an agreed-upon powerdown plan for onboard systems, which started yesterday (6/23) and runs through 6/29.  Special events such as 23S thruster test, 23S relocation &amp; 38P docking may require additional powerdown considerations.
 
 Soyuz 23S Relocation:   The scheduled 23S relocation on 6/28 from SM aft port to the MRM1 will require a change in the attitude plan for ISS during the transfer, due to the high-Beta period.  Load and LS (Longeron Shadowing) considerations make it necessary to keep ISS in earth-fixed LVLH (local vertical/local horizontal) attitude instead of the usual “space-fixed” Inertial mode.  This means, that the station will continue to slowly torque at orbit rate with its “belly” kept downward in “local vertical”, i.e. toward Earth.  This requires a change in Soyuz relocation maneuvering which has been worked by MCC-Houston with TsUP-Moscow.  The LVLH solution is fully supported by engineering analyses and is acceptable to all.  Soyuz CDR Yurchikhin has been trained in both Inertial and LVLH attitudes, and the Relocation OBT (Onboard Training) drill scheduled tomorrow will accommodate this change.  The Go/No-Go review will be held afterwards. 
 
 CEO (Crew Earth Observation):  Over the next week or so there will be fewer CEO targets in the target list.  This is due to the crew’s daylight/awake orbits paralleling the terminator.  This phenomenon occurs at least twice a year, sometimes more – during the high-Beta angle period.  During this time the sun elevations for nadir targets will be too low to meet requirements for many, but not all, of the targets.  The crew sees darkness if they look to the left of the orbit tracks; to the right they see sunlight. This typically lasts for about a week before sun angles improve for CEO nadir targets.  For the station, high Beta also means critically increased solar thermal input.
 
  CEO photo targets uplinked for today were Polar Mesospheric Clouds/PMCs at a number of specific opportunities/times.
 
 
