
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): Today, the CFT crew completed various activities to assist the ISS crew in restoring payload capabilities. The crew completed an activity to replace the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) Manifold-1 Bottle and an activity to perform a CO2 Sensor Remove & Replace (R&R) in the Plant Habitat facility.
Payloads:
CIR/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction/Material Ignition and Suppression Test (CIR/SoFIE-MIST): The Manifold-1 O2/N2 bottle was replaced with a fresh bottle. More information on this experiment can be found here. 
Human Research Facility-1 (HRF-1): Resupply activities were performed for the HRF-1 Rack. More information about this facility can be found here. 
Integrated Laser Communications Relay Demonstration (LCRD) Low Earth Orbit User Modem and Amplifier Terminal (ILLUMA-T): The ILLUMA-T payload performed an observation directly at the sun to verify solar filter capability as part of the last science data point prior to final deactivation. The Solar filter worked perfectly. The ILLUMA-T hardware was deactivated and has been relocated to the EFU-13 external pallet. This completes the final phase of the experiment prior to its jettison. More information on this experiment can be found here. 
Plant Habitat: The CO2 Sensor was replaced in the Plant Habitat facility. More information on this experiment can be found here.
POSSUM (Payload On-Orbit Still Shots for Utilization and Maintenance): Follow up photos were taken of the on-orbit configuration. POSSUM is the periodic photography of the current NASA Rack placement and configuration.
Systems:
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-20 cargo vehicle. NG-20 is scheduled to remain on ISS until July where it will unberth from ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. Due to its destructive re-entry, Cygnus provides an opportunity to offload some of the unwanted mass onboard the ISS.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) Restow: This week, in order to ensure a functional PCPA spare exists on-board the ISS, the crew performed a maintenance procedure to R&R a PCPA motor. Today, the crew restowed the newly created functional PCPA spare, as well as other hardware associated with this week’s maintenance. Another spare PCPA is also planned to arrive in August on the Cygnus NG-21 vehicle.
