
Predetermined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM) Status: Last night’s possible PDAM for object #99999 was not required. A second update to the object’s trajectory was received overnight and the Probability of Collision (PC) had dropped well into the green threshold.  Concern level was low and PDAM planning was no longer needed. 
MagVector 3D: The crew relocated a 3 dimensional (3D) sensor array to a deck rack within the Columbus module this morning and then began the first sample run.  A total of 12 different samples will be processed (1 per day).  ESA’s MagVector investigation supports a study of how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research is expected to help improve future ISS experiments and electrical experiments, and could also offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general. 
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS) 3: The crew transferred one MICS 3 ampoule kit to the ISS Portable Glovebag and broke the seal between the upper and center ampoules in each of the two sample bags and mixed the contents in the ampoules with a spatula. Later today, the crew broke the seal between the center and lower ampoules in each sample bag and pushed the alcohol in the lower ampoule to cover the hardened cement sample. They then returned each sample bag to the kit bag, which they stowed for return. This is the first of eight MICS sessions. The MICS investigation supports the evaluation of microstructure and material properties of benchmark cement samples.  Different responses to thermal and mechanical loading are expected and will be characterized in detail.  Positive attributes found in the hardening process due to the microgravity environment aboard the ISS will be reported with the intent of improving Earth-based cement and concrete processing. 
Lighting Effects: The crew conducted a Visual Performance Test today.  They stowed the hardware in their crew quarters, set the light to the correct mode, turned all other light sources in the crew quarters off, and performed a Numerical Verification Test, followed by a Color Discrimination Test. The Lighting Effects investigation studies the impact of the change from fluorescent light bulbs to solid-state light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with adjustable intensity and color and aims to determine if the new lights can improve crew circadian rhythms, sleep, and cognitive performance. 
Veggie: Today the crew checked out the Veggie 1 and 2 facilities in preparation for processing of VEG-03 plants arriving on the SpaceX-15 vehicle. 
On-board Training (OBT) Dragon Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT): The crewmembers tasked with capturing Dragon completed an OBT session using ROBoT. ROBoT is an on-orbit version of the ground-based Dynamics Skills Trainer (DST) that simulates robotics operations with graphical feedback. During today’s session, the crew reviewed the Backaway Cue Card and simulated a 30m approach and two Capture Point (CP) hold runs. The crew will also practice crew coordination and review details, such as timing of calls, related to capture. 
Umbilical Interface Unit (UIA) Remove and Replace (R&R): This morning the crew completed removal of the old UIA after the required safing was in place. Next, the crew replaced the seals on the Gamah fittings, used to pass water and O2 between ISS and the UIA, and began installation of the new UIA. When attempting to mate the Oxygen lines, however, the crew reported the lines appeared approximately 2mm too short to mate successfully without the potential for damage to hardware. The crew investigated several possible alternatives, including attempts to gain some slack in the lines, and ground teams are evaluating the next steps. The UIA was placed in a safe configuration and tomorrow’s activities are on hold pending engineering recommendations. All connections on the new UIA are connected and torqued except for O2.  The aborted SCU preparations, and the deferred Biocide Filter install, will be rescheduled. 
Cygnus Cargo Operations: Yesterday the crew completed the bulk of the Cygnus cargo operations.  Photos of the cargo configuration have been downlinked for Orbital to analyze the OA-9 Center of Gravity (CG). Overall, the crew reported working 60 hours to complete OA-9 cargo unloading and loading.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Today the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and performed SSRMS Latching End Effector (LEE)-B Checkouts and SSRMS Joint Diagnostics on both Strings in preparation for Space-X 15 Dragon capture on 2 July. Additionally, controllers powered up the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) and are currently performing SPDM Arm2 Direct Drive Tests. The data collected from these tests will be used to support trending of the health of the SPDM Arm2 joints. 

