
Small Fine Arm Attachment Mechanism (SAM) Installation: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst opened the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (JEMAL) and extended the slide table. Then with assistance from Commander (CDR) Swanson, Gerst installed the SAM on the slide table and attached the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) to the SAM. The slide table was then retracted and the JEMAL inner hatch was closed. The JEMAL reconfiguration was in preparation for NanoRack Cube Satellites that will be delivered on Orbital-2.
Sprint Ultrasound: With the help of Gerst, FE-5 Wiseman took Sprint ultrasound data for his Flight Day (FD) 30 ultrasound Sprint session. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in International Space Station (ISS) crewmembers during long-duration missions. Ultrasound scans are on FD 14, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and R-7 for mission duration of six months and are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume.
Ice Crystal – Soret Facet Exchange: Gerst removed Ice Crystal-2 from the Ryutai Rack in the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) in preparation to install Soret Facet in its place tomorrow. Fifty test runs were completed from the ground for the Ice Crystal-2 investigation which examines the growth rates and stability of ice crystals in super cooled water that contains antifreeze glycoprotein (AFGP). Soret Facet will examine the comprehensive understanding of the Soret physics under steady/non-steady condition including supercooled liquid phase which will be the first verification result to link the Soret physics and thermodynamics.
Circadian Rhythms: Gerst donned the Circadian Rhythms equipment and will wear it for 36 hours. Circadian Rhythms investigates the role of synchronized circadian rhythms, or the “biological clock,” and how it changes during long-duration spaceflight. Researchers hypothesize that a non-24-hour cycle of light and dark affects crewmembers’ circadian clocks. The investigation also addresses the effects of reduced physical activity, microgravity and an artificially controlled environment. Changes in body composition and body temperature, which also occur in microgravity, can affect crewmembers’ circadian rhythms as well. Understanding how these phenomena affect the biological clock will improve performance and health for future crewmembers.
Hicari Operations: The Hicari investigation is currently installed in the Gradient Heating Furnace (GHF) in the Kobairo rack in the JPM. The Hicari sample tests are controlled from the ground and will be running all week. Hicari aims to verify the crystal-growth by Travelling Liquidous Zone method, and to produce high-quality crystals of Silicon-Germanium (SiGe) semiconductor using the GHF. Once this method is established, it is expected to be applied for developing much efficient solar cells and semiconductor-based electronics. 
American to Russian Converter Unit [CHT] Testing:  Swanson and FE-1 Skvortsov completed two days of tests of the Russian Electrical Power System (EPS).  These tests were the result of issues seen with [CHT] operations, and characterized the current flow between the SM power bus and several downstream loads.   Additional tests will occur after new hardware arrives on Orb-2 and will focus directly on the [CHT]s.
Cygnus On Board Training ROBoT1: In preparation for Orb-2 launch in July, the crew completed two capture point hold runs which enables practicing free drift timing, malfunction response and nominal rate approaches.
Robotics Operations: Robotics ground controllers translated the Mobile Transporter (MT) from Work Site (WS)-2 to WS-4.  Later this evening they will walk off the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) from Mobile Base System (MBS)-3 to MBS-1 and position the SSRMS LEE A over the Node 2 Zenith hatch window in preparation for tomorrow’s LEE latch photo survey.
Reboost: Today the ISS performed a nominal reboost using Service Module (SM) main engines. The reboost set up phasing for 56P 4-orbit rendezvous on July 23-24.
Remote Power Contoller Module (RPCM) LAD62B-A RPC 12 Trip: The RPC that powers the Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) valves tripped this morning.  This is the same RPC that tripped on April 1, 2014. The RPC was successfully reset later in the day.

