
New Status:
Ocular Health: The crew continued Ocular Health activities with Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg performing ultrasound scans with each crewmember acting as a Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and subject.  They also performed cardiac ultrasound scans and blood pressure measurements. These activities are a part of the nominal medical testing on ISS crewmembers to gather information on intraocular pressure and eye anatomy.
Robonaut: Parmitano set up Robonaut in the Lab for the 3rd session of ground commanded teleoperations.  Today Robonaut performed wiping and grasping operations. Activities will continue tomorrow with a vision recognition test and velocicalc measurements to characterize air flow in the work volume. Robonaut is a humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware and react safely when bumped or following interaction. Robonaut is currently deployed inside the ISS but future project goals include mobility outside the ISS in the extravehicular environment.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-4 Cargo Operations: Cassidy and Nyberg continued cargo transfer operations today.  At the end of the day, Cassidy participated in a cargo transfer conference with ground teams.  The crew is ~68%complete with cargo operations following 10 hours 35 minutes of estimated operations in 2 hours 10 minutes of crew time.  Cargo specialists estimate approximately 25 hours of cargo operations remain for ATV4.
Sound Level Meter (SLM) Readings: Parmitano used a SLM to complete part 2 of an acoustic survey of the ATV4 in the Service Module (SM) and Docking Compartment (DC)-1. Part 1 of the survey was completed Monday.  The survey was broken up into two parts due to the EVA isolation on Monday.
Advanced Biological Research System (ABRS) Hardware Locate: On June 20, Volume Compensators needed for disconnection of the ABRS, could not be located. Today, Cassidy searched for the compensators, however of the eight located, the specific units expected were not found.  ABRS is a Life Science facility used for conducting a wide variety of biological investigations using plants, micro-organisms, or small arthropods.  It is currently non-functional, and the ABRS team is trying to identify what hardware is needed for future troubleshooting.  The next investigation to run in ABRS is a plant experiment called Advanced Plant Experiments (APEX)-03, planned for Increments 37 & 38.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Status: Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator System (SPDM) into position to open the Starboard Secondary Power Distribution Assembly (SPDA) door per the SPDA Doors Checkout plan. Opening the door was not attempted due to a pip pin lanyard that would have blocked the SPDM from opening the door. Per the plan, the SPDM was maneuvered over the Port SPDA door and the Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT), an On-Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Change out Mechanism (OTCM)-2 was used to capture the Micro-Conical on the door. Robotics Ground Controllers then made several attempts to open the door but were only able to move it off the   detents. Finally, Robotics Ground Controllers released the SPDA door Micro Conical from the RMCT and maneuvered the SSRMS and SPDM to a park position.  Results of this checkout will be provided to the hardware owner to help determine why the Port SPDA door could not be opened.  SSRMS and SPDM performance was nominal.
Tonight the Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and are currently maneuvered the SSRMS and the SPDM into position to checkout of the SPDM capability to acquire and drive a bare bolt head using the RMCT held by OTCM-2.  The forward tie-down bolt (1 of 2 tie-down bolts) on the Extravehicular Charged Particle Directional Spectrometer (EV-CPDS) will be released then refastened for this checkout.  The EV-CPDS will remain secured to its stanchion and electrical connectors will remain mated.  Once the checkout has been completed, the Robotic Ground Controllers will maneuver the SSRMS and SPDM to a park position.

