
Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) #1-2 Operations: Following the JEMAL depressurization, venting, and leak check yesterday, today ExHAM was installed on the JEMAL Slide Table and extended to the JEM Exposed Facility (JEF) side. ExHAM is a cuboid mechanism equipped with a grapple fixture on the upper surface for the Kibo’s robotic arm, Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System Small Fine Arm (JEMRMS SFA) for fixation to the handrail on the Kibo’s EF. There are 7 loadable experiments on the upper surface and 13 on the side surfaces. 
Liberated particles:  After ExHAM installation had already been completed but while the external cameras were still configured, loose particles were observed crossing the field of view of one of the cameras in the JEM EF area.  The source of these particles is not known at this time.  Ground teams are investigating. 
3D Printing in Zero-G Experiment Operations: Following yesterday’s activities to print the calibration and compression coupons in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), today the ground team remotely operated the 3D printer to produce two more 3D printed test coupons, after which the crew removed and stowed them. The 3D Printing In Zero-G experiment demonstrates that a 3D printer works normally in space. A 3D printer extrudes streams of heated plastic, metal or other material, building layer on top of layer to create 3 dimensional objects. Testing a 3D printer using relatively low-temperature plastic feedstock on the ISS is the first step toward establishing an on-demand machine shop in space, a critical enabling component for deep-space crewed missions and in-space manufacturing.
Synchronized Position Hold Engage and Reorient Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Work Area Setup: In preparation for SPHERES maintenance operations tomorrow, the crew participated in a training session and crew conference with the payload developer before completing setup activities. The crew then configured the work area to activate and check out the hardware and the EXPRESS Laptop Computer ELC before testing begins. Upon inspection, it was found that two of the five beacons as well as the spare beacon had corrosion in their battery compartments.  Ground teams are developing a cleaning procedure.
Dose Tracker: The crew completed entries for medication tracking which documents the medication usage of crewmembers before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.

