
Genes in Space-6: The crew stowed the Biomolecule Sequencing device which was used for the Genes in Space-6 experiment. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage caused by increased exposure to radiation can affect the long-term health of astronauts. Genes in Space-6 determines the optimal DNA repair mechanisms that cells use in the spaceflight environment. The investigation evaluates the entire process in space for the first time by inducing DNA damage in cells and assessing mutation and repair at the molecular level using the miniPCR and the Biomolecule Sequencer tools aboard the space station.
The ISS Experience: The crew recorded an astronaut log event. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Life Support Rack (LSR) Hose Reconfigurations: The crew performed multiple manual reconfigurations of the waste water lines between the LSR and the LAB1D5 AV-1 RACK Condensate Tank to support ground operations. The initial configuration allowed the LSR buffer tank to be filled with filtered waste water from the Waste Water Bus. The second configuration allowed a flush of the newly installed lines between LSR and the LAB Condensate Tank via the Lab Condensate Tee. In the third and final configuration, the existing filter setup was reinstalled at LAB1D5 and a new Contingency Waste Water Dump Filter (CWWDF) was installed in the new hose assembly that runs from the Lab Condensate Tee (LABD5) to Life Support Rack (LABP1), just upstream of the LSR 15 micron filter. These activities enable the upcoming LSR Carbon dioxide Concentration Assembly (CCA) CO2 removal characterization that follows the Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) CO2 removal characterization that is ongoing at this time.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3003: The crew removed the Data Recorder (EDaR) from EMU 3003, installed the EMU Impact Shield, and prepared the suit for later installation into Short Extravehicular Mobility Unit (SEMU) Launch Enclosure (SLE). These activities are in preparation for EDaR and suit return on SpX-18.

