
Human Resources Facility (HRF) 1 Centrifuge: The crew set up and checked out the HRF1 Centrifuge and Payload drawer. HRF-1 provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables scientists conducting human life science research to evaluate the physiological, behavioral, and chemical changes induced by space flight. Research performed using HRF-1 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
The ISS Experience: The crew recorded an Astronaut Log event in the Columbus module. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses. 
Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG): The crew replaced a failed Illumination unit that supports the MSG Work Volume. The MSG is a rack-level payload facility located in the U.S. Laboratory module on the ISS. MSG provides resources such as power, data, video, heat rejection, vacuum, nitrogen and containment for investigations. The facility is well suited for handling hazardous materials when crew are present. MSG is capable of accommodating both physical science and biological research payloads. 
RED-EYE Satellite: Ground teams are currently performing Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) slide table operations in preparation for Kaber MicroSat deployer release of the RED-EYE later today. The RED-EYE program develops and demonstrates technologies which increase the utility of low-cost microsatellites.
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer – 02 (AMS): The crew replaced a failed hard drive on the AMS laptop which is a backup for recording data when live downlink is not available. AMS-02 is a state-of-the-art particle physics detector that uses the unique environment of space to advance knowledge of the universe and lead to the understanding of the universe’s origin by searching for antimatter, dark matter and measuring cosmic rays. 

