
Ocular Health: Padalka executed his Medical Operations Flight Day 90 (FD90) Ocular Health activities with Kelly’s assistance.  Padalka performed Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) and ocular ultrasound and later today will execute fundoscope measurements with Kelly as operator. OCT is used to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer, and fundoscopy is used to obtain images of the retinal surface. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Integrated Resistance and Aerobic Training Study (Sprint):  Kelly, with Padalka assisting, configured video, Ultrasound 2 machine, and donned the calf and thigh reference guides for his FD90 Sprint Ultrasound.  Kelly then performed thigh and calf scans with guidance from the Sprint ground team.  Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume.
Fine Motor Skills: Kelly and Kornienko executed their FD90 Fine Motor Skills experiment this morning between one and four hours of wakeup.  In the Fine Motor Skills experiment, crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of Fine Motor Skills is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
SpaceX (SpX)-7 Preparations: Kelly and Padalka completed another session of On Board Training (OBT) with the robotics trainer to prepare for capture/berthing of the Dragon vehicle. Today they practiced a 30 meter approach and two capture point hold runs. SpX-7 launch is planned for Sunday, June 28 with berthing on Tuesday, June 30.
Ground Camera Calibration – Ground controllers performed a calibration of ISS external cameras today, in preparation for SpaceX-7 arrival.  The purpose of the calibration is to make sure that the overlays displayed by the Robotics Workstation line up properly with the video images during SpaceX-7 approach and capture.  Today’s activity gathered data on the camera pan and tilt calibration.  Using this data, ground teams determined that the camera calibrations are within limits and no adjustments are needed.

