
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer- External (NRCSD-E) Operations: Following Cygnus unberth last week, today NRCSD-E conducted post departure satellite deployments prior to Cygnus re-entry tomorrow, June 22. This set of cubesats includes 3 deployment silos containing a total of 5 LEMUR satellites.  Two out of three silos (four out of five satellites) were successfully deployed. The Orbital team downlinked and reviewed imagery to ascertain why one of the CubeSats did not deploy. Further troubleshooting is ongoing. The LEMUR satellites are equipped with payloads to provide two primary data products: AIS Data (Maritime Domain Awareness) and GPS-RO Data (Weather). NRCSD-E is a mechanical separation system for small U-class satellites designed specifically to interface with the Orbital-ATK Cygnus cargo resupply vehicle. It consists of an array of up to six individual 6U deployers contained within one mechanical housing that releases the CubeSats from Cygnus after it has completed its primary mission and departed the ISS.
Multi-Omics Operations:  The crew supported the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Multi-Omics investigation by collecting saliva samples and inserting them into the Minus Eighty-degree Freezer for ISS (MELFI). The investigation evaluates the impacts of space environment and prebiotics on astronauts’ immune function by combining the data obtained from the measurements of changes in the microbiological composition, metabolites profiles, and the immune system.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Swap: In preparation for tomorrow’s loop scrub activities, the crew retrieved EMUs 3005 and 3008 from the Crewlock and temp stowed them. He then removed EMU 3010 from the forward EMU Don/Doff Assembly (EDDA) and installed EMU 3008. He removed EMU 3003 from the aft EDDA and installed EMU 3005.
Microbial In-Flight Water Operations: The crew performed analysis of water samples collected earlier to determine water quality onboard the ISS. The focus was on microbial and coliform detection. 
On-Board Training (OBT) 46 Soyuz (46S) Emergency Drill: The crew completed an emergency egress drill for proficiency in the event of an ISS emergency requiring crew departure. The OBT is scheduled after 12-14 weeks aboard the ISS and once every two and one half months thereafter. 

