
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Halo: The crew completed a test session for the SPHERES Halo investigation. For this investigation the ISS fleet of SPHERES satellites are upgraded to enable each satellite to communicate with six external objects concurrently, supporting testing of new control and remote assembly methods. Results may be used to support remote or autonomous servicing of retired, obsolete, or failed satellites that otherwise eventually become space debris.  SPHERES Halo also supports research into future assembly of space habitats including large telescopes and exploration vehicles that may be too difficult and costly to launch from Earth but could be assembled in orbit.
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  The crew collected surface and air samples at different locations and a saliva sample and placed them inside a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) in support of the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation. MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1 year period.  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time. 
Vascular Echo Ultrasound: Ultrasound scans of a crewmember’s neck, torso, heart, and back of the knee were taken today. The crewmember donned Electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes and with remote guidance assistance from the ground, collected ultrasound measurements.  They donned leg cuffs for several hours and repeat the ECG and ultrasound measurements. This Canadian Space Agency (CSA) investigation examines changes in blood vessels and the heart while the crew members are in space, and again upon their return to Earth. The results could provide insight into potential countermeasures to help maintain crew member health.
Cardiac Stem Cells: In support of the ongoing Cardiac Stem Cells investigation, the crew changed out the media in one of the BioCell Habitats in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). Cardiac Stem Cells investigates how microgravity affects stem cells and the factors that govern their activity, in order to clarify the role of stem cells in cardiac biology and tissue regeneration. This investigation also supports research into the possible acceleration of the aging process in microgravity.  

