ISS On-Orbit Status 06/21/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">At Baikonur/Kazakhstan, the new cargo ship Progress M-11M/43P (#411) was launched this morning on time at 10:38am EDT on a Soyuz-U rocket fueled with 392 tons of LO<sub>2</sub>, over 80 tons of kerosene, and nearly 70 tons of LN<sub>2</sub>, H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> and other elements.  Ascent was nominal, and all spacecraft systems were without issues.  All arrays and antennas deployed nominally (2 solar arrays, 5 KURS antennas, 1 Rassvet-M antenna for TORU, 1 SBI/M-BITS onboard measurement / telemetry system antenna).  Docking to the ISS at the SM (Service Module) aft port is planned for Thursday, 6/23, at ~12:37pm.</li></ul> 
Before breakfast, FE-5 Furukawa continued the new round of the periodic personal acoustic measurement protocol begun yesterday for the 26S crew, today distributing the crew-worn acoustic dosimeters from the SMK (Sound Measurement Kit) to the 27S men, i.e., Volkov (#1011), Furukawa (#1012) &amp; Fossum (#1013), for a 24 hrs data take.
 
Afterwards, Satoshi collected periodic cabin air samples with new GSCs (Grab Sample Containers) in the center of the SM, JPM (JEM Pressurized Module) &amp; Lab (near the AQM/Air Quality Monitor).
 
FE-5 also conducted the periodic zero calibration on the combustible products sensors of all CSA-CP (Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products) units, then deactivated the instruments after calibration was complete.
 
CDR Borisenko performed the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the "bake-out" cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  The process will be terminated later today (~2:45pm), followed tomorrow by Bed #1 regeneration.      [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days. (Last time done: 6/2-6/3.]
 
Afterwards, the CDR started a new round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems by replacing the PF1-4 dust filter cartridges in the SM after taking documentary photography of them, discarding the removed units as trash and updating the IMS (Inventory Management System).
 
Andrey also tightened the BZV quick release screw clamps of the SSVP docking mechanism on the MRM2 “Poisk”/Soyuz 26S StA docking interface, a periodic task (MRM2 itself is docked to the SM).
 
Later, Borisenko took the periodic Russian PZE-MO-3 test for physical fitness evaluation, his first, spending ~90 min on the T2 advanced treadmill in unmotorized (manual control) mode and wearing the Kardiokassette KK-2000 belt with three chest electrodes.       [The fitness test, controlled from the RSE-Med laptop, yields ECG (electrocardiogram) readings to the KK-2000 data storage device, later downlinked via the Regul (BSR-TM) payload telemetry channel.  Before the run, the KK-2000 was synchronized with the computer date/time readings.  For the ECG, the crewmember rests for 5 min., then works out on the treadmill, first walking 3 min. up to 3.5 km/h, then running at a slow pace of 5-6 km/h for 2 min, at moderate pace of 6.5 km/h for 2 min, followed by the maximum pace not exceeding 10 km/h for 1 min, then walking again at gradually decreasing pace to 3.5 km/h].
 
In preparation of Progress M-11M/43P (#411) docking on 6/23 (~12:37pm EDT), FE-1 Samokutyayev &amp; FE-4 Volkov worked through the standard 3-hr refresher training for the TORU teleoperator system, which provides a manual backup mode to the Progress’ KURS automated rendezvous radar system.  A tagup with a TORU instructor at TsUP/Moscow via S-band audio supported the training.       [The drill included procedure review, rendezvous, docking data and rendezvous math modeling data review, fly-around, final approach, docking and off-nominal situations (e.g., video or comm loss).  Three different flight conditions were simulated on the RSK1 laptop.  The TORU teleoperator control system lets a SM-based crewmember perform the approach and docking of automated Progress vehicles in case of KURS failure.  During spacecraft approach, TORU is in “hot standby” mode.  Receiving a video image of the approaching ISS, as seen from a Progress-mounted docking television camera (“Klest”), on a color monitor (“Simvol-Ts”, i.e. “symbol center”) which also displays an overlay of rendezvous data from the onboard digital computer, the crewmember would steer the Progress to mechanical contact by means of two hand controllers, one for rotation (RUO), the other for translation (RUD), on adjustable armrests.  The controller-generated commands are transmitted from the SM's TORU control panel to the Progress via VHF radio.  In addition to the Simvol-Ts color monitor, range, range rate (approach velocity) and relative angular position data are displayed on the “Klest-M” video monitor (VKU) which starts picking up signals from Progress when it is still approximately 9 km away.  TORU is monitored in real time from TsUP over Russian ground sites (RGS) and via Ku-band from Houston, but its control cannot be taken over from the ground.   On 6/23, Progress KURS-A (active) will be activated at 11:02am EDT on Daily Orbit 1 (DO1), SM KURS-P (passive) two minutes later.  Progress video will be switched on at a range of ~9 km, Progress floodlight at ~9 km.  Progress TORU will activate at 3 km range.  Flyaround to the SM aft port (~400 m range, in sunlight) starts at 12:15pm, followed by station keeping at 170m at ~12:22pm.  Start of final approach: ~12:26pm (DO2) in sunlight, contact: ~12:37pm.  SM Kurs-P is deactivated on mechanical capture.  Sunset: 12:40pm.]
 
FE-3 Garan &amp; FE-6 Fossum conducted their second 2-hr. review of uplinked procedures for their single EVA during the STS-135/ULF7 docked period and afterwards tagged up with ground specialists (~10:30am) to discuss details.      [EVA activities by Mike &amp; Ron will include removal of the failed PMA (Pump Module Assembly) from ESP-2 for return to Earth in the Orbiter payload bay, retrieval of the RRM (Robotics Refueling Mission) from the payload bay and its transferral to the SPDM EOTP (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator / Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform), installation of the MISSE 8 ORMatE-III (Materials ISS Experiment 8 / Optical Reflector Materials Experiment III) on the ISS, plus a number of “get-ahead” tasks.]
 
Ron &amp; Mike also performed a one-hour training session with the EVA ECWS (EMU Caution &amp; Warning Simulator) Onboard Trainer.
 
In Node-3 (A5), Garan accessed the OGS (Oxygen Generation System) Rack to prepare for unpowering the OGS by performing hydrogen purging with the HOPA (Hydrogen Sensor ORU Purge Adapter), then replaced the hydrogen sensor with a new spare, followed by inspection &amp; cleaning of the OGS AAA (Avionics Air Assembly) foam sound muffler filter of its AAA (Avionics Air Assembly), taking documentary photographs of the cleaned filter.  Afterwards, OGS QDs (quick disconnects) were remated.
 
Prior to the operation, the T2/COLBERT treadmill rack in Node-3 was locked down for load protection by installing the four alignment guides.
 
After Furukawa broke out and set up the appropriate equipment, Mike Fossum acted as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) for Satoshi’s first session with the periodic 30-min US PHS (Periodic Health Status)/Without Blood Labs exam.  FE-5 then logged the data and stowed the equipment.  A subjective evaluation was part of the test.      [The assessment used the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data were then logged on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) and the hardware stowed.  The PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.]
 
Mike &amp; Satoshi had another ~30 min for the standard Shuttle RPM (R-bar Pitch Maneuver) skill training, their 2<sup>nd</sup>, using NIKON D2Xs digital still cameras with 800mm &amp; 400mm lenses for taking practice shots of CEO (Crew Earth Observation) ground features from SM windows #6 or #8 with images having 40-50% overlap and about 20 images in each sequence, using manual focus only.  Satoshi later downlinked the photos.       [The RPM drill prepares crewmembers for the bottom-side mapping of the Orbiter at the arrival of the next Shuttle, STS-135/Atlantis/ULF7, to be launched 7/8.  During the RPM at ~600 ft from the station, the “shooters” have only ~90 seconds for taking high-resolution digital photographs of all tile areas and door seals on Atlantis, to be downlinked for launch debris assessment.  Thus, time available for the shooting will be very limited, requiring great coordination between the two headset-equipped photographers and the Shuttle pilot.]
 
FE-1 Samokutyayev performed the periodic task of downloading structural dynamics measurements of the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer of the running experiment TEKh-22 “Identifikatsiya” (Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.     [IMU-Ts is a part of the MRM1 SBI onboard measurement system, installed in PGO behind panel 104.]
 
Sasha also took care of the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
FE-4 Volkov conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Preparatory to the arrival of Progress 43P on Thursday, Sasha set up the Ku-band video “scheme” for a communications test of converting the RS (Russian Segment) video signal from the SONY HDV camera’s PAL format to U.S. NTSC format and Ku-band from FGB &amp; SM, for downlinking “streaming video” packets via U.S. OpsLAN and Ku-band.     [Sasha configured the SSC-2 (Station Support Computer 2) laptop at the SM Central Post with the NVIEWER application for the test and activated the VWS1(Video Streaming Workstation 1) A31p laptop In Node-1 for both the conversion from PAL to NTSC and the “streaming” MPEG2 (Moving Pictures Expert Group 2) encoding, running the video test from the RS.  The equipment, including the SSC-2, was then closed down.]
 
Later, Satoshi Furukawa conducted a video test in preparation for the STS-135/ULF7 mission, configuring two SSC Client laptops in Node-3 to “wired” mode, then tearing down the old VSW A31p in Node-2 and setting up two T61p SSCs instead for testing and ULF7 Robotics.        [The change became necessary because of the recent SSCV4 software upgrade.]
 
Afterwards, Satoshi conducted an MPEG-2 Streaming test of two video signals on the T61p SSCs from Node-2 to the viewing VSW SSCs in Node-3.
 
After configuring STTS communication systems temporarily for crew presence in the MRM2 “Poisk” module, Borisenko conducted another active session with the Russian experiment KPT-10 “Kulonovskiy Kristall” (Coulomb Crystal), supported by ground specialist tagup.  STTS was then reconfigured to nominal.  Andrey &amp; Sasha later set up the two SONY HVR-Z1J video camcorders for replaying and downlinking their recorded footage during two RGS (Russian Groundsite) passes, at 9:39am-10:04am and at 11:14am-11:38am EDT.        [KPT-10 studies dynamic and structural characteristics of the Coulomb systems formed by charged dispersed diamagnetic macroparticles in the magnetic trap, investigating the following processes onboard the ISS RS: condensed dust media, Coulomb crystals, and formation of Coulomb liquids due to charged macroparticles.  Coulomb systems are structures following Coulomb’s Law, a law of physics describing the electrostatic interaction between electrically charged particles.  It was essential to the development of the theory of electromagnetism.]
 
Sergei Volkov started his first session of the standard 24-hour ECG (Electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2 protocol.       [After 24 hrs of ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed system, Sergei will doff the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads and recorded on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results will then be downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data will be downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]
 
Later, Sergei reviewed uplinked material to familiarize himself with the Russian onboard VKS Auxiliary Computer System laptops, then tagged up with ground specialist via S-band for discussion.      [VKS laptops are RSE-Med, RSS1, RSS2, RSE1, RSE2 (NEXUS), RSK2, RSK1, SSC-3 &amp; SSC-2.] 
 
Using the BPA-M nitrogen purging unit #24, readied by Samokutyayev on 6/16, for purging, Andrey Borisenko had ~3 hrs set aside for troubleshooting the failed Russian Elektron O<sub>2 </sub>generator.  The electrolysis machine had received the spare (albeit used) BZh #056 on 5/18 but failed to function after several subsequent repair attempts by Aleksandr.     [A new BZh will be delivered on Progress 43P on 6/23.]
 
With its FSS battery freshly charged overnight, FE-1 used the Russian GFI-8 "Uragan" (hurricane) earth-imaging program with FSS science hardware at SM window #9 during a one-hour segment, taking pictures of targets along the flight track, including Africa (Guinea, Mali, Algeria), coastal and offshore Mediterranean area, volcano Etna, and Italy.       [The FSS (Fotospektralnaya sistema) consists of an image recording module with lens and a spectroradiometer module with an electronics module.  FSS includes the ME Electronics Module &amp; MRI Image Recording Module.]
 
Sasha also completed a data collection session for the psychological program MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”), accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was his 6<sup>th</sup> onboard session with MBI-16.      [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
Putting in ~1.5 hrs in the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module) Leonardo, docked to Node-1 nadir, Mike Fossum moved non-ULF7-return hardware out of the Bay A4 area to make room for a ZSR (Zero-G Storage Rack) to be installed there during ULF7. 
 
Later, Mike also performed periodic maintenance on the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device) by evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition &amp; sensor calibration.
 
Soyuz 27S crewmembers Volkov, Fossum &amp; Furukawa again had about an hour of free time for general orientation (adaptation, station familiarization &amp; acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.
 
CDR, FE-1 &amp; FE-4 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences) scheduled, via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Sasha at ~8:45am, Sergei at ~10:10am, Andrey at ~1:15pm EDT.
 
Before “Presleep” period tonight, Garan will power on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR, FE-1).
 
CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today were Semeru Volc., Java, Indonesia (while it is extremely rare to have a cloud free look at the volcanoes on Java, the peaks of the volcanoes are typically visible above the clouds.  Looking left of track for a cluster of volcanoes in eastern Java.  Shooting the volcano nearest the south coast of Java), Colombo, Sri Lanka (Colombo is the capital city of Sri Lanka.  Looking right of track), Asmara, Eritrea (this capital city of nearly 600,000 lies at elevation of 7,628 ft near a great escarpment that marks edge of the Eritrean Highlands with the shores of the Red Sea just 50 miles to the east.  This is a low-contrast target, so as ISS tracked northeastward over the rugged, barren Highlands, the crew was to start a mapping pass and end the pass when it reached the escarpment or the coast), Riyadh, Saudi Arabia (looking slightly right of track for the city of Riyadh.  The street grid of the city contrasts sharply with the surrounding desert.  Overlapping mapping frames of the urban and surrounding rural area were requested), and Kingston, Jamaica (ISS had a nadir orbit over this capital city on the south coast of the island.  There were most likely clouds present, but researchers thought the crew would still be able to capture this capital city).
 

