
New Status:
Ocular Health: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg collected blood pressure and vital sign data in support of the Ocular Health payload.  They then performed tonometry measurements with each acting as a Crew Medical Officer (CMO) and subject. FE-3 Cassidy was the CMO for both Parmitano and Nyberg to assist in the use of the Fundoscope data collection.  The Ocular Health protocol aims to systematically gather physiological data to characterize the Risk of Microgravity-Induced Visual Impairment/Intracranial Pressure on crewmembers assigned to a 6 month ISS increment. Researchers believe that by systematically measuring visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment, a database could be developed to inform future in-flight research protocols, identify mechanisms, develop countermeasures, and direct clinical monitoring and clinical practice guidelines.
US Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Cassidy and Nyberg completed Liquid Cooling and Ventilation Garment (LCVG) fill and EVA Mobility Unit (EMU) loop scrub as well as EMU checkout activities for both EMUs that will be used for the upcoming US EVAs scheduled for July 9th and 16th.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-4 Cargo Operations: Ground cargo specialists uplinked next week’s unpack message following yesterday’s completion of unpack activities for this week. Today the crew used next week’s message to resume unloading cargo from and loading trash into ATV4, The crew performed 3 hours of cargo operations and are 55% complete.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Status: Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to grapple the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator System (SPDM). They released the SPDM from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 2 and maneuvered SPDM Arm 2 to pick up Robot Micro Conical Tool (RMCT) 2 from the SPDM Tool Holder Assembly (THA) with On-Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism (OTCM)-2. Finally the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered SPDM Arm 2 away from the THA leaving the SSRMS and SPDM in a park position.
When setting up for release of the SPDM from MBS PDGF2, the Robotics Ground Controllers found that the SPDM Latching End Effector (LEE) appeared to be calibrated but the SPDM LEE load cell offset value was not correct. They corrected this and the SPDM was released nominally, putting it and the SSRMS in a good configuration for today’s SPDA Door Checkout.


