
Biological Rhythms: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst removed a digital walk holter and actiwatch to end a data take for Biological Rhythms and saved the data to a medical laptop. Biological Rhythms 48 hours studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE) Operations: Commander (CDR) Swanson set up hardware on the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) and conducted an Interior Corner Flow (ICF) test using the ICF5 hardware which contains a square shaped rectangular section equally divided into four smaller sections. CFE ICF studies capillary flow in interior corners of vessels with various geometries. Structured inside tanks providing interior corners are used in the design of fuel tanks to promote fuel flow to the outlet of the tank in the absence of gravity. Experimental results will provide the necessary boundary conditions as a function of container cross section and fill fraction. The benchmarked theory can be used to improve propellant management aboard spacecraft.
Education Payloads Operations (EPO) Top Experiment: Gerst started recording a European Space Agency (ESA) educational video for Top Experiment. The video demonstrates the physics of soap bubbles in micro-gravity and will be used for educational purposes on the ground.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Cable Troubleshoot: On Monday, the BASS monitors stopped displaying the experiment video and still camera images after completing four flame tests. This monitor is specific to the BASS investigation and displays fuel, air, and fan readings during test burns. On Thursday FE-5 Wiseman conducted troubleshooting of the BASS-II video cable connector by taking conductivity measurements of the video cable. Wiseman placed kapton tape around the y-branch of the cable but was not able to reproduce the previous conductivity measurements. Today Wiseman tested the cable by connecting one side to the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and connecting the three remaining connectors one by one to the still camera, experiment assembly and the video camera to see if the breaker tripped during any of these connections. The cable connections were successful, but the video was still intermittent. Wiseman created a sling using kapton tape to hold the cable in place. The kapton tape sling was successful and BASS-II operations are scheduled to resume next week.
Internal Wireless Integrated System (IWIS) Remote Sensor Unit (RSU) Firmware Reload: Wiseman reloaded RSUs in the Service Module (SM), Lab, Functional Cargo Block (FGB), Node 3 and Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). The reload was to recover from suspected firmware corruption that was preventing the RSUs from providing valid acceleration data.
Post Extravehicular Activity: Following yesterday’s Russian EVA, today Gerst transferred USOS tools and equipment from the Russian Segment (RS) to the USOS.

