
Time:  The crew performed a Time perception session. ESA’s Time experiment captures the accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time is also fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination. The Time experiment quantifies the subjective changes in time perception in humans during and after long-duration exposure to microgravity.
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID):  The task to install 10 RFID Logistics marker tags in PMA-1 today was postponed due to the crew not being able to easy access the required locations.  This activity will be rescheduled after the OA-9 mission is complete.  RFID Logistics aims to utilize RFID enabled tags on hardware throughout the ISS to assist in the tracking of the hardware as it is moved around the ISS. 
JEM Airlock (JEMAL):  Following the successful deployment of the NanoRacks-Remove Debris satellite, the crew removed and stowed the Kaber from the A/L Adapter Plate (JCAP) slide table adapter. The crew then installed the MPEP (Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform) in preparation the next JEMAL cycle. 
Manufacturing Device (MD): Today the crew trimmed the filament of a new feedstock canister within the MD device to troubleshoot a jamming issue seen during a recent print attempt. The Manufacturing Device supports the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. It is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.  
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Eye Ultrasounds: Today the 54S crew completed a second day of routine eye exams using an Ultrasound machine. Eye exams are performed regularly onboard in order to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: Today the crew inspected Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBAs), and Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs) as part of routine maintenance.
Node 3 (N3) External Wireless Communications (EWC) Wireless Access Point (WAP) Checkout: The N3 EWC WAP will provide Wi-Fi coverage to payloads installed on the Japanese Experiment Module – Exposed Facility (JEM-EF) and is required by the ECOSTRESS payload arriving on SpaceX-15.  The N3 EWC WAP is connected to two EVA antennas that were installed during US EVA 49, one located on Node 3 Zenith and the other located on Node 3 Nadir, and today’s nominal checkout ensured proper functionality of each antenna. 
Cygnus Cargo Operations: OA-9 Cargo Message #3 was uplinked overnight and the crew reported spending approximately seven hours on cargo operations since receipt.  Despite continued issues with foam management, the crew was able to complete approximately one third of the message and will continue with cargo operations tomorrow. 
Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Failure: This afternoon the Lab CDRA shut down due to an Air Selector Valve (ASV) fault on valve 104.  Recovery attempts were unsuccessful and startup of the Node 3 CDRA is in work. Once complete, specialists will continue with additional troubleshooting.  There are currently three spare valves on-orbit. 

