
Northrup Grumman 17 (NG-17) Cygnus Departure: Today, Cygnus was unberthed from the Node 1 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS), then maneuvered to the release position, and released for departure at 6:06 AM CT. Cygnus, filled with waste/trash from the space station packed by the crew, is scheduled for a destructive re-entry tomorrow, June 29th.
Payloads:
Autonomous Medical Officer Support (AMOS): The crew reviewed the AMOS operations products in preparation for activities later this week. As missions venture farther from Earth, astronauts need the capability to diagnose and treat acute medical conditions without ground support. The AMOS software demonstration, for which data collection is now complete, tests a software tool designed to help minimally trained or untrained users conduct complicated medical procedures, without assistance from Earth. For the study, the crew uses AMOS to perform ultrasound imaging of the bladder and kidneys, a plausible Mars mission medical scenario.
Astrobee: Several routine activities were performed including battery exchanges, removal of the Perching Arm (PA), and inspection/cleaning of the Astrobee intake fans. Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Behavioral Core Measures (BCM): The crew performed a BCM research session consisting of a set of 12 runs/tests. The Standardized Behavioral Measures for Detecting Behavioral Health Risks during Exploration Missions (BMC) experiment initially examined a suite of measurements to reliably assess the risk of adverse cognitive or behavioral conditions and psychiatric disorders during long-duration spaceflight and evaluated the feasibility of those tests within the operational and time constraints of spaceflight for two crewmembers. Subsequent subjects perform a subset of the original activities to measure the performance capabilities of deconditioned crew members to complete either individual or crew telerobotic operations within the first 24 hours after landing. This information could help characterize what tasks a crewmember who has spent months in weightlessness can reasonably be expected to perform after landing on the surface of Mars.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew gained access to the experiment chamber, exchanged sample holder 2 in the sample cartridge assembly, and closed out the ELF to prepare it for upcoming operations.  ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt, and solidify material by container less processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method.  With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Systems:
NanoRacks Bishop Airlock (NRAL) Trash Deploy Preparations: Today, the crew cleared stowage from the Node 3 Port Endcone and removed vestibule covers, kickplates, and Control Panel Assemblies (CPAs) on NRAL to give access to NRAL for trash deploy activities. The crew also installed trash deployment hardware in NRAL. NRAL trash deploy activities will be completed throughout the week in preparation for the planned Jettison on Saturday. NRAL is the first-ever commercially owned and operated airlock on the ISS. It provides a variety of capabilities including jettisoning of payloads such as CubeSats, deployment of external payloads, support for small exterior payloads and locker-sized internal payloads, recovery of external on-orbit replaceable units (ORUs), and the ability to move hardware outside in support of extravehicular activities (EVAs) and remove trash from station. It is approximately five times larger than the JEM Airlock so it can accommodate more and larger payloads. NRAL’s capabilities support many different types of scientific investigations.
Nitrogen (N2) Purge ORU Flight Support Equipment (FSE) Transfer: Today, the crew transferred the N2 Purge ORU FSE from a new Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) N2 Purge ORU to an old/used one for return to the ground. N2 Purge ORU regulates flow of nitrogen through the electrolyzing cell stack to make it inert for deactivation. Electrolyzing cell stack electrolyzes water creating both oxygen and hydrogen.
Crew Handover Video: Today, the crew recorded videos for future crew handovers and pre-flight familiarization to help crew adjust to ISS daily life. In the recording, the crew gave tips for the life onboard, setting up Public Affair Events (PAOs), exercising, IT onboard, and any other topics at the crew’s discretion.

