
SpaceX-15 Launch: SpX-15 launched nominally today at 4:42 AM CDT from Launch Pad LC-40 at Kennedy Space Center, Florida. In preparation for vehicle arrival, the crew scheduled to capture Dragon completed their second Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) session this afternoon. In addition, all USOS crew participated in a conference with ground cargo transfer specialists to discuss the SpX-15 cargo unloading and loading plan. Capture and berthing is scheduled for Monday, July 2, at approximately 6:00 AM CDT.
Umbilical Interface Assembly (UIA) Remove and Replace (R&R): After yesterday’ successful O2 Supply Line troubleshooting, including an overnight gross O2leak check, this morning the crew completed installation of the Service and Cooling Umbilicals (SCUs) and successfully completed the UIA checkout activities. This afternoon the crew performed the final closeout activities and stowed the tools used during the R&R. Nominal Extravehicular Activity (EVA) operations have been restored.
Airway Monitoring:  In support of the European Space Agency’s Airway Monitoring investigation, today the crew completed calibration of the hardware in the US Laboratory and then completed the low Nitric Oxide (NO) protocol, which determines how much NO is exhaled with respiration, and the high NO protocol, which determines how much NO is diffused into the blood.  The ISS provides a unique environment, allowing these measurements to be taken in weightless, hypobaric and hypoxic conditions. With dust particles present in the ISS atmosphere, this investigation studies indicators of airway inflammation in crewmembers, using ultra-sensitive gas analyzers to analyze NO in exhaled air. This will help to identify potential health impacts and support maintenance of crewmember health during future human spaceflight missions, where crewmembers will have to be more self-sufficient in identifying and avoiding conditions that may result in airway inflammation.
DEvice for the study of Critical LIquids and Crystallization (DECLIC):  Today the crew replaced the DECLIC ALICE-Like Insert (ALI) in the DECLIC Experiment Locker with the DECLIC Directional Solidification Insert (DSI).  DECLIC is a multi-user facility utilized to study transparent media and their phase transitions in microgravity onboard the ISS. 
Microgravity Measurement Apparatus (MMA):  As part of troubleshooting for an issue that occurred on October 31, 2017 with the MMA, that supports operations of the Ryutai rack in the JEM, the crew replaced the MMA Parallel Adapter Card with a T61p Express Card to Parallel Adapter.

