
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): The CFT crew completed a variety of systems activities to assist the ISS crew. They completed a PMM Endcone scavenge activity, a Chotherm Remove and Replace (R&R), a Crew Provisions Refresh, Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Wring Collector (COT) R&R, and CST-100 Stowage Audit and Seat Adjustments.
Payloads:
Astrobee: The crew prepared the Astrobee Flyers and video cameras for Video Capture Operations for Crew Minimal Session #16.  More information on this experiment can be found here.
Transparent Alloys: Sample TAC4c2 Cartridge #4 has completed its science run. The sample cartridge was removed, Cartridge #6 was inserted, and data disks were exchanged. Transparent Alloys was reconfigured and powered off. Transparent Alloys is currently performing Columnar-to Equiaxial Transition during Solidification-2 (CETSOL-2) science activities, which studies modelling of grain structure formation in relevant industrial castings. More information on Transparent Alloys/CETSOL-2 can be found here.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation Operations: The crew performed various activities in preparation for the two upcoming EVAs. The crew completed a Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Checkout, a Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) Virtual Reality Training (VRT), a Robotics On-board Trainer (ROBoT) Session, an Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Long Life Battery (LLB)/Metal Oxide (METOX) Installation, and an EVA Procedure Conference. These activities are in preparation for the upcoming Radio Frequency Group (RFG) Retrieval Part 2.5 EVA on June 24th, and the Common Communications for Visiting Vehicle (C2V2), Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS), Rate Gyro Assembly (RGA), and DC-DC Converter Unit (DDCU) (CARD) EVA on July 2nd.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Chotherm R&R: The crew completed an activity to R&R the Chotherm on the size 4 spare external Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM). Chotherm provides a thermal barrier between the MDM Chassis and Coldplate, and this activity was performed as an Intra-vehicular Activity (IVA) in the Maintenance Work Area (MWA).
Oxygen Generator System (OGS) Airflow Sensor Adapter Taping: The crew completed an activity to tape the Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Airflow Sensor Adapter on OGS from the front of the rack to the back of the rack for firmer attachment to prevent airflow leakage around the adapter. This was in response to Velocicalc measurements on January 8th showing erratic airflow. The ground team identified a solution, and it was implemented on-board. The OGS rack provides the capability for oxygen generation on-board the ISS.
JEM Inter-module Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning: The crew completed an activity to temporarily remove and clean the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) IMV Starboard Forward Fan and IMV Grille. The IMV system circulates air between modules to air revitalization equipment so that ideal atmospheric condition is maintained throughout the ISS.
