
European Robotic Arm (ERA) Operations: Today, by successfully grappling to base point 3, the ERA Mission 2 was completed. ERA Mission 2 was intended to be completed during RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) # 53 which occurred in April; however, ERA was unable to complete the grapple to base point 3. In this position, ERA is in a good configuration for the Cygnus Reboost. ERA is located on MLM and is the intended to be the primary equipment for servicing the electromechanical systems on the Russian Segment once it completes commissioning.
Payloads:
EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station Racks (EXPRESS Rack): Crew performed the Common Laptop Software (CLS) 14 installation setup on EXPRESS Laptop Computer 1 (ELC-1). The EXPRESS Racks support science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
ISS Ham Radio: An ISS HAM contact was initiated with Eaton Public Library, Eaton, CO. Since the earliest space station expeditions, ISS Ham Radio has allowed groups of students in schools, camps, museums, and planetariums to hold a conversation with the people living in space. As the ISS passes overhead, students have about 9 minutes to ask crew members 10 to 20 questions.
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer-21 (NRCSD-21): NRCSD-21 launchers were searched for again and found in the PMM (Permanent Multipurpose Module), as they are scheduled to return on SpX-25. The NRCSD is a self-contained CubeSat deployer system that mechanically and electrically isolates CubeSats and has been in operation since 2014. NRCSD-21 will be launching Cooling, Annealing, and Pointing Satellite (CAP Sat), Puerto Rico CubeSat NanoRocks-2 (PR-CuNa R2), and Science Program around Communications Engineering with High Achieving Undergraduate Cadres (SPACE HAUC).
Wireless Compose-2: A crewmember donned the Wireless Compose-2 SmartTex-2 shirt, executed the experiment run and completed a questionnaire. The main scientific goal of the Wireless Communication Network (Wireless Compose-2) investigation is to provide a flexible and adaptable wireless network infrastructure to conduct and execute low-power, light-weight, and wireless experiments on the ISS. For this demonstration, Wireless Compose-2 operates several experiments, including an experiment to examine the impact of the space environment on the cardiovascular system. Additionally, Wireless Compose-2 demonstrates the ability of newly developed impulse radio ultra-wide band (IR-UWB) hardware to enable precise localization applications and to analyze the energy harvesting potential on the ISS.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): Fluid from Root Modules was recirculated back into Fluids Reservoir and the wicks were examined and opened when required.  The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
SpaceX Crew Dragon Emergency Response Training: Today, the Freedom crew reviewed the emergency departure and contingency considerations as well as the free-flight depress and fire response for the SpaceX Crew Dragon Vehicle. The onboard reviews will make sure the crew’s training is fresh in the event there is an emergency on the space station. Tomorrow, the crew will perform a deorbit entry and landing contingencies refresher.
Columbus Smoke Detector Inspection and Cleaning: The crew inspected and successfully cleaned the Columbus smoke detectors #1 and #2. The smoke detector samples the atmosphere for particles that might correspond to smoke from a fire. The smoke detectors sample the atmosphere within racks and in the open cabin and determine the amount of smoke using a light sensing sampling chamber or probe and rely on forced airflow to propagate any smoke particles that may be present in the atmosphere.
JEM and US Lab Window Inspection: The crew performed a JEM and US lab window inspections during which they documented contamination (smudges, particulates) and damage (scratches, cracks) that were on the window pane surfaces. Emphasis was placed on the exterior surface of the debris pane and interior surface of the pressure pane. Window inspections are performed on a routine basis to monitor window conditions.
Hatch Seal Inspection: As part of periodic maintenance, the crew cleaned and inspected the USOS hatch seals and hatch plate sealing surface for Node 3 Forward and PMM Aft. The crew inspected the hatch seal beads for FOD, nicks, burrs, cuts, or gouges that would impair a proper seal. The crew also inspected the crank handle mechanism and hatch seal interlocking joints for foreign object debris (FOD) or damage. The crew removed dust with ac vacuum and hatch seal brush. 
Crew Handover Video: Today, the crew recorded videos for future crew handovers and pre-flight familiarization to help crew adjust to ISS daily life. In the recording, the crew gave tips for the life onboard, setting up Public Affair Events (PAOs), exercising, IT onboard, and any other topics at the crew’s discretion.

