
Fiber Optic Production (FOP): The crew performed a preform and spool exchange allowing the ground to initiate a print run. The Hardware was then removed from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and stowed. The Fiber Optic Production investigation creates optical fibers with high commercial value aboard the ISS using a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium, and aluminum called ZBLAN. It operates in the MSG. Extensive theoretical studies along with a limited number of experimental studies suggest that ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity should exhibit far superior qualities to those produced on Earth. The resulting optical fiber from Fiber Optic Production is expected to help verify these studies and guide further engineering efforts to manufacture high value optical fiber in large volume aboard the ISS. 
PhotoBioreactor: The crew performed the nutrient exchange on the algae sample chambers. Today the life support systems that sustain astronauts in space are based on physicochemical processes. The PhotoBioreactor investigation aims at demonstrating that microalgae (i.e. biological processes) can be used together with existing systems to improve recycling of resources, creating a hybrid life support system. This hybrid approach could be helpful in future long-duration exploration missions, as it could reduce the amount of consumables required from Earth and will first be tested in space on the ISS.
The ISS Experience: The crew recorded a Social Moments event for the ISS Experience study which creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved.  The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Japanese Small Satellite Orbital Deployer 11 (J-SSOD#11): The crew removed the J-SSOD #11 hardware from the JEM Airlock slide table. The J-SSOD provides a novel, safe, and small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD, including satellite install cases with small satellites, is installed on the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) by crew members, it is passed through the JEM airlock for retrieval, positioning, and deployment by the JEMRMS.
RED-EYE: The crew reviewed JEM slide table Satellite to Kaber installation procedures for the RED-EYE satellite. Yesterday Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the start position for Red Eye deployment scheduled on June 27. The RED-EYE program develops and demonstrates technologies which increase the utility of low-cost microsatellites. 
57S Soyuz Nominal Descent On-Board Training (OBT): In preparation for Monday’s 57S departure, the 57S crew performed the second descent drill. They practiced a nominal descent and the transition to Manual Entry Control [РУС]. Responses to emergencies caused by nominal decent hazards were also reviewed.

