
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (BCAT-KP):  Kelly changed the camera battery, transferred images to a laptop for downlink, and set the D2Xs intervalometer. The BCAT-KP experiment aims to help materials scientists develop new consumer products with unique properties and longer shelf lives. Colloids are mixtures of small particles distributed throughout a liquid, which include milk, detergents and liquid crystals. Gravity affects how the particles clump together and sink, making the ISS an ideal platform to study their fundamental behaviors.
Microbiome Setup: Kelly gathered and reviewed a reminder video prior to beginning his next round of Microbiome collections. The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time). To monitor the status of the crewmembers’ microbiome and immune system and their interaction with the unique environment of the ISS, periodic samples from different parts of the body and the surrounding ISS environment are taken. As part of this study, the likelihood and consequences of alterations in the microbiome due to extreme environments, and the related human health risk, will be assessed.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS in the Hot Backup Configuration in preparation for today’s SpX-7 Offset Grapple practice session. During the MSS power up they also performed the pre-launch checkouts. Kelly and Padalka practiced maneuvering the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into the grapple envelope of the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF).  They performed this eight times followed by a final run during which ground controllers safed the SSRMS to simulate a failure. The crew recovered by switching from the Cupola Robotic Workstation (RWS) to the Lab RWS and backed the SSRMS away. 

