
Roll Out Solar Array (ROSA): On Sunday, three attempts to retract ROSA solar array were unsuccessful.  Imagery showed the array was not lining up correctly (“telescoping”), preventing the locking of ROSA’s latches which is required for return in Dragon. Teams met and agreed to stand down on further retraction attempts due to the risk of getting stuck in an off nominal configuration with a partially retracted array. ROSA was left fully deployed following the last attempt and jettison was approved which was completed today at 4:15PM CDT to the nadir and aft of ISS. 
Seedling Growth 3: The crew completed the second of two six-day growth sessions for Seedling Growth 3 today. They removed Experiment Containers from the European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS), processed the samples, and stowed them in the Biolab Thermal Control Unit. The samples from this and the previous run will be returned on SpaceX-11. This is the third part of the Seedling Growth Experiment series using the small flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana to investigate the effects of gravity on the cellular signaling mechanisms of light sensing in plants (phototropism), and to investigate cell growth and proliferation responses to light stimulation under microgravity conditions. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  Yesterday the crew collected saliva samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation and placed them in a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1 year period.  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS in order to understand the microbial flora diversity on the ISS and how it changes over time. 
Human Research Program (HRP): A crewmember collected Flight Day 60 urine and blood samples yesterday and today for Biochem Profile and blood and air samples for Marrow.

The Biochem Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during and after spaceflight.  Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results which scientists can use in their study of the effects of spaceflight on the body.
The Marrow investigation identifies the effect of microgravity on bone marrow.  It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on blood cell production in bone marrow.


