
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman conducted flame tests using cotton fiberglass fabric samples and a four centimeter acrylic spherical section for the BASS-II investigation. The investigation examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
KUBIK Interface Test: FE-6 Gerst transferred data from KUBIK 3 to the European Drawer Rack (EDR) laptop following portable power supply commissioning. After the data downlink Gerst disconnected KUBIK 3 and stowed it. The interface test is in preparation for T-Cell Activation in Aging Reflight which will be delivered to ISS on a later SpaceX flight. The KUBIK will be in a different configuration for T-Cell Activation in Aging Reflight than it was for the T-Cell investigation delivered on SpaceX-3 due to a reconfiguration of the EDR.
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE) Operations: Gerst set up hardware on the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) and conducted an Interior Corner Flow (ICF) test using the ICF5 hardware which contains a square shaped rectangular section, equally divided into four smaller sections.  CFE ICF studies capillary flow in interior corners of vessels with various geometries. Structured inside tanks providing interior corners are used in the design of fuel tanks to promote fuel flow to the outlet of the tank in the absence of gravity. Experimental results will provide the necessary boundary conditions as a function of container cross section and fill fraction. The benchmarked theory can be used to improve propellant management aboard spacecraft.
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: CDR Swanson removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides, which will isolate the rack and allow ground teams to conduct another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. Iso-octane and heptane was used for this test point. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Latching End Effector (LEE) Photo Survey:  Following yesterday’s photo survey of the LEE A latches,  robotics ground controllers walked off the SSRMS to Node 2 and positioned LEE B over the cupola.  Today, Wiseman conducted the survey of LEE B, which included unloaded cycling of the LEE B latches.  The surveys support the investigation regarding high current signatures that have been seen during recent LEE latching attempts.
Remote Power Contoller Module (RPCM) LAD62B-A RPC 12 Trip:   The RPC that provides power to the Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Air Selector Valves tripped once again this morning.  This is the 3rd trip this week, the 4th this year.  Data shows that the trips are due to overcurrent events.  Engineering teams are reviewing data to determine the next troubleshooting actions.

