
57 Soyuz (57S) Departure: The 57S crew is scheduled to depart the ISS and return to Earth today. Hatch closure occurred at 3:10 PM CT with undock scheduled at 6:25 PM CT and landing at 9:48 PM CT at the Kazakhstan landing site. On Sunday, Oleg Kononenko transferred command of ISS to Aleksey Ovchinin and the 58S crew completed a Roles and Responsibilities review in preparation for 3-crew operations. 
Genes in Space-6 (GIS): The crew initiated part 5 of the Genes in Space 06 CRISPR biomolecule sequence run. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage caused by increased exposure to radiation can affect the long-term health of astronauts. Genes in Space-6 determines the optimal DNA repair mechanisms that cells use in the spaceflight environment. The investigation evaluates the entire process in space for the first time by inducing DNA damage in cells and assessing mutation and repair at the molecular level using the miniPCR and the Biomolecule Sequencer tools aboard the space station.
The ISS Experience: This evening the crew will record the 57S crew departure from Node 1. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
JAXA-PCG (Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Protein Crystallization Growth): The crew retrieved the two JAXA PCG samples from the FROST2 (Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle 2) facility and prepared them for 57S return. The objective of the JAXA PCG investigation is to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity.
Veg-04A: The crew performed a water check and measured broken off leaves using the Mass Measurement Device. This investigation is a phased research project to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight. The Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the ISS to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-04A focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 28-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space. 

