
Payloads:
BioLab: The Biological Experiment Laboratory in Columbus (Biolab) centrifuge rotor A and B belts were replaced, and reference Experiment Containers (ECs) were installed into the Biolab facility. The rotor belt replacement is a periodic maintenance activity. The multiuser research facility is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates. BioLab allows scientists to gain a better understanding of the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms.
EXpedite the PRocessing of Experiments for Space Station (ExPRESS) Rack 3: A crewmember assisted in the ExPRESS Rack 3 Common Laptop Software (CLS) 14 load. The ExPRESS Racks can supports science experiments in any discipline by providing structural interfaces, power, data, cooling, water, and other items needed to operate science experiments in space.
Repository: Urine collections and blood setup were completed in support of the Repository investigation. The NASA Biological Specimen Repository (Repository) is a storage bank that is used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. Samples from the ISS, including blood and urine, are collected, processed and archived during the preflight, in-flight, and post-flight phases of ISS missions. This investigation archives biosamples for use as a resource for future space flight related research.
Systems:
Waste and Hygeine Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle (UR) and Insert Filter (IF) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew completed routine maintenance to replace the urine receptacle and filter. As part of the R&R, the crew cleaned the WHC power supply, reactivated WHC, and performed a functionality test to verify the WHC was operational following the maintenance.
SpaceX Crew Dragon Emergency Response Training: Today, the Freedom crew reviewed the emergency Deorbit Entry and Landing Contingencies Refresher as well as the free-flight depress and fire response for the SpaceX Crew Dragon Vehicle. The onboard reviews will make sure the crew’s training is fresh in the event there is an emergency on the space station.
Station Reorganization: Today, to decongest some of the clutter built up over the years, the crew organized stowage and crew preference items across station. The reorganization should aid the crew as they move though the station and work on science and maintenance.
Crew Handover Video: Today, the crew recorded videos for future crew handovers and pre-flight familiarization to help crew adjust to ISS daily life. In the recording, the crew gave tips for the life onboard, setting up Public Affair Events (PAOs), exercising, IT onboard, and any other topics at the crew’s discretion.

