
NanoRacks-Remove Debris (RemDeb): The RemDeb satellite was deployed nominally from the ISS.  NanoRacks-Remove Debris demonstrates an approach to reducing the risks presented by space debris or “space junk”. Collisions in space may have serious consequences, but research has shown that removing the largest debris significantly reduces the chance of collisions. NanoRacks-Remove Debris uses a 3D camera to map location and speed of debris and then deploys a net to capture and de-orbit simulated debris that is up to 1 meter in diameter. Ground experts will then analyze video of the demonstration runs.
Solidification Using Baffles in Sealed Ampoules (SUBSA): The crew performed troubleshooting on the SUBSA experiment to remove pieces of the broken sample ampoule. It was determined pieces of the ampoule remain lodged inside the chamber bore and is not possible to fully clean the chamber bore. Therefore, there will not be any future planned troubleshooting. The objective of the SUBSA investigation is to advance understanding of the processes involved in semiconductor crystal growth. It offers a gradient freeze furnace for materials science investigations that can reach 850°C. Samples are contained in transparent quartz or ceramic ampoules with high definition video imaging available in real-time along with remote commanding of thermal control parameters. 
At Home in Space: The crew completed a questionnaire for the At Home in Space investigation. This Canadian Space Agency investigation assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the spacecraft by creating a home in space. At Home in Space also uses questionnaires to investigate individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth.
Public Affairs Opportunity (PAO):  This afternoon the entire crew participated in an event for the 50th anniversary of the U.N. Conference on Exploration and the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space.  Ground participants in this conference in Vienna, Austria will include Dr. Jim Green, NASA Chief Scientist, and former NASA astronaut Scott Kelly. 
Acoustic Monitor Noise Survey: The ISS is a noisy place. To better characterize changes to the acoustic environment of ISS, the crew utilized a Sound Level Meter (SLM) and acoustic dosimeters to measure the acoustic environment in the habitable areas of the ISS.
On-Board Training (OBT) 54 Soyuz (54S) Emergency Egress Drill:  All three 54S crewmembers participated in a training session today where they reviewed and practiced procedures that would be performed in the event of an emergency that required the crew to egress ISS and execute an emergency descent. This drill is scheduled after the crew has been onboard for 12 to 14 weeks and every 2.5 months thereafter.
Eye Exams: This afternoon the 54S crew performed routine Fundoscope eye exams.  Prior to the exam, the crewmember’s eyes were dilated allowing another crewmember to utilize the Fundoscope to capture images of both eyes.  Eye exams are routinely performed onboard the ISS to monitor crewmembers eye health.  Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that is affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  After deployment of the RemDeb satellite, ground Robotics Specialists (ROBO) preformed a checkout of the NanoRacks Kaber Microsat Deployer prior to returning it to the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock Slide Table.  ROBO is currently performing a Mobile Transporter (MT) translation from Worksite (WS)7 to WS4 and will stow the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) later this evening prior to a SSRMS walkoff onto Node 2(N2). 

