
Story Time From Space: A crewmember recorded a Story Time From Space session for Newton’s Law Demonstrations. Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crewmembers read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crewmembers videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Marrow: A crewmember collected the last breath and ambient air sample to complete Marrow’s four year study. Marrow looks at the effect of microgravity on bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on the bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the bone marrow.
RED-EYE: The crew installed the RED-EYE satellite and deployment hardware onto the JEM Airlock slide table in preparation for next Thursday’s satellite deployment. The RED-EYE program develops and demonstrates technologies, which increase the utility of low-cost microsatellites. 
The ISS Experience: The crew recorded an evening dinner in the Service Module for the ISS Experience experiment. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses. 
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) N22A3A_A Remove & Replace (R&R): On October 23, 2017 this RPCM failed resulting in the Starboard Crew Quarters being zero fault tolerant for power. Today the crew successfully R&R’d this RPCM using the Hot Demate/Mate technique, restoring redundant power to the Crew Quarters.

