
SpaceX (SpX)-7: Following SpX-7 launch yesterday there was an in-flight anomaly during ascent which resulted in loss of the SpX vehicle.  Teams are assessing immediate impacts from lost cargo and on-board plans for the week. They are also reviewing changes to the near-term flight manifests, including 60P and HTV5, that may be required.
Node 1 (N1) Stowage Reconfiguration: Kelly reorganized N1 stowage in preparation for arrival of the Galley Rack on HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-5. 
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Maintenance: Kelly Removed & Replaced (R&R) the WHC pre-treat tank. This is nominal maintenance.
On-orbit Sampling: Kelly deployed 2 Formaldehyde Monitoring Kits (FMKs) in designated sample locations for post-flight analysis of on-orbit formaldehyde levels. He also used a Grab Sample Container (GSC) to collect instantaneous air samples for post-flight analysis. Finally, he performed water sample analysis using the Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA). TOC measured at the potable bus was 2514 parts per billion (ppb). Last week’s TOC at the potable bus was 2371 ppb.  This is not an impact to crew consumption of water since the TOC values are below the flight rule limit of 3000 ppb. Teams are discussing future planning of potable water due to loss of hardware on SpX-7.
Fluids and Combustion Facility (FCF) Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Translation Interference Removal: On June 19, the crew replaced a burnt out lamp in the FIR.  Upon completion of that task, the crew was unable to translate the FIR back to its nominal position.  Today, Kelly translated and rotated the Optics Bench out into the US Lab, then secured the connector caps and verified that the grounding tabs were correctly oriented, both located in the rear of the facility.  Kelly was then able to successfully rotate the Optics Bench back to the stowed position and translated the FIR to the fully retracted position.  The next planned use for FIR is under review, as the Microchannel Diffusion was lost on the ascent of the SpaceX-7 mission. 
Space Aging Closeout: Kelly performed the necessary closeout steps to remove the Space Aging experiment from the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) in the Saibo rack.  He accessed and retrieved the samples from the observation experiment units, placed them in moisture bags and within Space Aging Holder for return on a later flight. 

