
Ultrasonic Background Noise Test (UBNT): The crew replaced batteries and transmitted data by closing out the Station Support Computer (SSC’s) Distributed Impact Detection System (DIDS) software and removing the UBNT hardware. UBNT detects high-frequency sounds generated by hardware on the U.S.-built portions of the ISS. Identifying sources of noise will aid in development of a leak locating system which would detect the high-pitched sound of air leaking through a pressurized wall. To detect leaks, the system would have to differentiate between harmless background sounds and a potentially dangerous air leak. 
LAB Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA) Mass Spectrometer Assembly (MSA) Troubleshooting: In December 2014, the crew installed new Orbital Replacement Units ORU1, ORU2, and ORU8 in the Lab MCA.  When the Lab MCA was restarted, there was no communication with ORU2.  Today the crew attempted to isolate the problem to either ORU2 or the connector it mates with on the MCA drawer.  The crew reported no visible damage to either side of the ORU2 connector interface. He performed resistance checks on sockets on the drawer side connector saver and found that four of the sockets tested had lower than expected resistances.  To address one potential cause of this problem, the crew replaced ORU4, the Low Voltage Power Supply, and repeated the resistance check on the previously failed sockets.  The resistances of the sockets did not change so the original ORU4 was reinstalled.  The rack has been closed out with ORU2 and ORU8 uninstalled. Teams are meeting to discuss the forward plan.  The Node 3 MCA is operating nominally.
Remote Power Controller RPCM LA2A3B-G RPC 2 Trip: This morning the RPC that provides power to the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) Primary Power feed tripped.  At the time of the trip, ground teams were activating FIR for science operations.  The crew reported no smoke odor and Compound Specific Analyzer Combustion Products (CSA-CP) readings were zero.  A current spike high enough to trigger an RPC trip was not visible in the 50 Hz Direct Current to Direct Current Converter Unit (DDCU) current data, however, it is possible that the current spike was rapid enough to not be sampled at 50 Hz.  After analysis of the system showed that the suspect components would be isolated if the main power feed was not used, the rack was successfully repowered using the auxiliary power feed.  The auxiliary power feed will allow the MicroChannel Diffusion to achieve their science goals, and troubleshooting on the main power feed will occur after that payload’s objectives are complete.

