
Pro-K Sample Collections: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman collected urine and blood samples for his Flight Day 30 Pro-K session. Pro-K investigates dietary countermeasures to lessen bone loss of astronauts. It proposes that a flight diet with a decreased ratio of animal protein to potassium will lead to decreased loss of bone mineral. Pro K has impacts on the definition of nutritional requirements and development of food systems for future exploration missions and could yield a method of counteracting bone loss that would have virtually no risk of side effects.
Node 3 (N3) Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly Maintenance:  Today, Commander (CDR) Swanson and FE-6 Gerst cleaned N3 CDRA desiccant/adsorbent bed 202.  They separated the two halves of the bed, cleaned the filter, installed the bed into the frame and re-installed the frame into the rack.  The N3 CDRA is now back in operation.  The maintenance was required because the pressure drop across the bed has been increasing and impacting CDRA performance.
Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC):  Over the past week the WHC ‘check separator’ light illuminated numerous times, an indication that the pump separator would probably fail in the near future.  On Sunday, the crew replaced the pump separator and the WHC has been operating nominally since. Today, Wiseman replaced the WHC pre-treat tank and placed tick marks along the hose to help observe fluid flow during activation and assist in estimating pre-treat dosing.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fluids Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA):  The UPA shutdown over the weekend due to a high FCPA motor current. This signature was seen at end of life for the last 2 FCPAs. Two unsuccessful attempts were made to restart the motor.   The crew is scheduled to replace the FCPA tomorrow.
On Board Traning (OBT) Crew Health Care System (CHeCS) Emergency Health Maintenance System (HMS) Contingency Drill Training: Gerst, Wiseman and FE-4 Suraev conducted this OBT/drill which gives crewmembers the opportunity to work as a team to resolve a simulated medical emergency onboard ISS. The training refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment use, and procedures. 

