
Payloads:
Actiwatch: The actiwatches were doffed, connected to a USB hub for charging and data management, and then returned to the appropriate crewmembers for donning. The Actiwatch is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until downloaded for analysis.
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS-3D): The crew performed a routine check of the LEDs on the DOSIS-3D main box. ISS crewmembers are continually exposed to varying levels of radiation which can be harmful to their health. DOSIS-3D uses several active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS. The goal is to develop a three-dimensional radiation map covering all sections of the ISS.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): A manual fluid recovery and wick opening were performed in support of the second planting in XROOTS. The wick opening allows the seeds to be assessed for germination and gives them more room to grow. Over the next several weeks, the crew will observe and assist with the seed germination and growout of the plants. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): The crew performed a series of steps on six of the original ten sample preforms to recover the ability to pull fiber from them. The preform is a cylindrical rod of raw material from which the fiber is pulled as it’s passed through a ring-shaped furnace. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Wireless Compose-2 (WiCo-2): The crew participated in a Ballistocardiography session while wearing the SmartTex-2 shirt. Ballistocardiography looks at body motion related to the pumping of blood by the heart. A questionnaire was also filled out to give feedback on the session. The main scientific goal of the WiCo-2 investigation is to provide a flexible and adaptable wireless network infrastructure to conduct and execute low-power, low-weight, and wireless experiments on the ISS. For this demonstration, WiCo-2 operates several experiments, including an experiment to examine the impact of the space environment on the cardiovascular system. Additionally, WiCo-2 demonstrates newly developed impulse radio ultra-wide-band (IR-UWB) hardware to enable precise localization applications and to analyze the energy harvesting potential on the ISS.
Systems:
NanoRacks Bishop Airlock (NRAL) Trash Deploy Preparations: Today in preparation for the planned NRAL Trash Deploy planned on Saturday, Crew configured the Node 3 Port (N3P) vestibule for NRAL demate and closed the N3P Hatch. Ground controllers depressurized NRAL and began a 40 hour thermal stabilization period. NRAL is the first-ever commercially owned and operated airlock on the ISS. It provides a variety of capabilities including jettisoning of payloads such as CubeSats, deployment of external payloads, support for small exterior payloads and locker-sized internal payloads, recovery of external on-orbit replaceable units (ORUs), and the ability to move hardware outside in support of extravehicular activities (EVAs) and remove trash from station. It is approximately five times larger than the JEM Airlock so it can accommodate more and larger payloads. NRAL’s capabilities support many different types of scientific investigations.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPs) Inspection: Today, the crew completed a PEPs inspection to determine if PEPs are in a good operational condition. The crew inspected various emergency provisions such as the Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBAs), and Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs) at multiple locations throughout the space station. The crew spent several minutes on each item to verify suitability and identify any missing parts or visible damage.   

