
SpaceX (SpX)-11 Unberth Status: Teams met this afternoon to discuss the plan to unberth Dragon on Sunday, July 2. Weather at the splashdown area has been a concern for the past few days but reports are that the weather is improving. Teams decided to go forward with the plan to release on Sunday at 10:38AM CDT. 
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis: The crew transferred half of the RR-5 mice to an Animal Transporter for return on SpX-11.  Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system, it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight.
Cardiac Stem Cells: The crew removed a Cardiac Stem Cells sample from a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) and placed it in a Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL) incubator.  They also changed out the media in one of the BioCell Habitats in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG).  Cardiac Stem Cells investigates how microgravity affects stem cells and the factors that govern their activity, in order to clarify the role of stem cells in cardiac biology and tissue regeneration. This investigation also supports research into the possible acceleration of the aging process in microgravity. 
NanoRacks Module-54 and Module-56:  A crewmember removed NanoRacks Module-54 and Module-56 from NanoRacks Platform-1 in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) and placed them into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on SpX-11. 
Algae can produce both fats and hydrogen which can each be used as fuel sources on Earth and potentially in space.  NanoRacks Module-54, also known as NanoRacks-National Design Challenge-Chatfield High School-The Effect of Microgravity on Two Strains of Biofuel Producing Algae with Implications for the Production of Renewable Fuels in Space Based Applications (NanoRacks-NDC-CHS-The Green Machine), studies two algae species to determine whether they still produce hydrogen and store fats while growing in microgravity.  Results from this student-designed investigation improve efforts to produce a sustainable biofuel in space, as well as remove carbon dioxide from crew quarters.  
Vermicomposting, or using worms to break down food scraps, is an effective way to reduce waste and obtain a nutrient-rich fertilizer for plants.  NanoRacks Module-56, also known as NanoRacks-NDC-Bell Middle School-Efficiency of Vermicomposting in a Closed System (NanoRacks-NDC-BMS-Vermicomposting), is a student-designed project that studies whether red wiggler worms, a species of earthworm, are able to produce compost in space.  Results are used to study the potential for composting as a form of recycling on future long-duration space missions. 
NanoRacks Module 9: The crew deactivated mixture tubes for NanoRacks Module 9 Ops Session 5 today in support of the NanoRacks-National Center for Earth and Space Science-Casper (NanoRacks-NCESSE-Casper) investigation. NCESSE supports various schools and student-designed experiments that address challenges of living and working in space. The program is also a key initiative for U.S. science, technology, engineering and math (STEM), that strives to educate and inspire the next generation of scientists and engineers to work on the space program. The specific investigations supported today include Growth and Development of Fathead Minnows in Microgravity, Does the Structure of a Fairy Shrimp Change in Microgravity?, Soybean Germination in Microgravity, and Benefits of Mint. 
JAXA Tissue Equivalent Proportional Chamber (TEPC) and Area Passive Dosimeter for Life-Science Experiments in Space (PADLES):  The crew removed area dosimeters from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) walls and Bio Dosimeters from the JEM TEPC Detector Units for return on SpX-11. The JAXA Area PADLES investigation uses area dosimeters to continuously monitor the radiation dose onboard the ISS.  Radiation exposure can have significant biological effects on living organisms, including the biological investigations being done on ISS in the JEM.
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 1: The crew removed the Biophysics-3 Plate 2 from the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) and placed it into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  Investigators will use the results from LMM Biophysics 1 to examine the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity. This investigation is expected to add to scientists’ understanding of the physical processes that enable high-quality crystals to grow in space where Earth’s gravity does not interfere with their formation.

