
Group Combustion Module (GCM):  The crew completed closeout operations in the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack 1 (MSPR1) for the GCM investigation that was completed this week. The Group Combustion investigation tests combustion changes of fuel sprays as flames spread across a cloud of droplets. In the MSPR fuels are arranged randomly on thin-fiber lattice points and the flame and droplet positions and temperature distribution are measured as the flame spreads.  Microgravity blocks convection, which on Earth would quickly disperse the droplets and combustion products before such measurements could be made.
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): A crewmember completed a session of the FMS investigation which studies how the fine motor skills are effected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of the investigation is to determine how fine motor performance in microgravity varies over the duration of six-month and year-long space missions; how fine motor performance on orbit compares with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance varies before and after gravitational transitions, including periods of early flight adaptation and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
Food Acceptability:  The crew completed a Food Acceptability questionnaire.  The investigation seeks to determine the impact on food acceptability on ISS of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system. Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
Biolab:  As part of the routine maintenance for the Biolab, the crew exchanged Biological Isolation Filters and the Cold Spot Sponge. The BioLab is a multiuser research facility located in the Columbus laboratory. It is used to perform space biology experiments on microorganisms, cells, tissue cultures, small plants, and small invertebrates.  BioLab allows scientists to study the effects of microgravity and space radiation on biological organisms. 
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collection: The crew collected water samples from the PWD for in-flight and post-flight microbial and coliform analysis. This is a regularly scheduled activity that is performed multiple times throughout the expedition to verify water safety. 
Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Increasing Water Conductivity: As expected, there is an increasing trend in the conductivity of water measured in the WPA between the two Multi Filtration Beds (MF Beds).  The increase in conductivity likely indicates the predicted acetate breakthrough of the first MF bed. When water conductivity between the two MF beds stabilizes, a sample will be collected and returned to the ground for analysis to confirm that the conductivity increase is due to acetate breakthrough.  If the ground determines that the conductivity increase is due to a different contaminant that is harmful to the Catalytic Reactor, one or both of the MF Beds would need to be replaced.

