ISS On-Orbit Status 07/07/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Saturday – Crew off duty.
 
At wakeup, Gennady Padalka performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
The three crewmembers joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of Uborka house cleaning, Sergei &amp; Gennady also completed regular weekly maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP), and the grilles of the BMP Harmful Contaminants Removal System and SKV air conditioner in the SM.
 
The CDR handled the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
FE-3 Acaba conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4 (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 4) and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks) at Lab O2 &amp; O1, focusing on cleaning the muffler air intakes.
 
Deferred from yesterday, Joe took closeout photos of all the lockers in the P1 &amp; O1 racks in the ATV3 (Automated Transfer Vehicle 3).    [With its fan nonfunctional but IMV (Intermodule Ventilation) on, smoke detection &amp; CO<sub>2</sub> monitoring is temporarily a crew function.]
 
Also deferred from yesterday, Gennady conducted another transfer of water from Tank 1 of the ATV3 WDS (Water Delivery System) to fill an EDV-RP container via the P-P water transfer hose with BP pumping equipment.      [ATV3 WDS Tank 1 contained ~90L.]
 
Working in the JAXA JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), Acaba configured HRMS (High Rate Data Multiplexer &amp; Switcher) patch cable connections for the MCE (Multi-mission Consolidated Equipment) arriving with the HTV3 (H-2 Transfer Vehicle) and the MSPR (Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack).
 
While in the Kibo lab, Joe also checked out its fire indicator illuminators to verify that the fire indication lights in the JLP (JEM Logistics Pressurized Segment), JEM RMS (Robotic Manipulator System), ISPRs (International Standard Payload Racks) A2, A3, A4, F1 and F5 are all functioning properly.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-2), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-3), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-2). 
 
Tasks listed for Revin &amp; Padalka on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and
<?if !supportLists?>·        <?endif?>More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).
 
Kurs-P Test:   At 3:17am-3:35am EDT, Moscow conducted a standard test of the Kurs-P passive radio navigation transponder on the FGB, run from the pre-positioned CSB test program during RGS LOS (Russian Groundsite Loss of Signal).
 
Thanks:   Thank you to the crew for using their personal time taking photos to lend their support to a young man in Dallas with terminal cancer.
 

