ISS On-Orbit Status 07/08/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.
 
STS-135/Atlantis (ULF-7) lifted off this morning from Pad A at 11:29am EDT for her last flight.  Launch was slightly delayed, by 2.5 min, due to an (erroneous) indication that an access arm had not fully retracted.  Rendezvous with the ISS is on 7/10, with docking at ~11:09am.  At launch time, ISS was well ahead, but Atlantis is catching up.  We are off to another great mission!.        [The Orbiter is carrying the four-member crew of CDR Christopher Ferguson, PLT Doug Hurley, MS1 Sandy Magnus &amp; MS2 Rex Walheim,- all of them Shuttle veterans.  STS-135 is the 135<sup>th</sup> Space Shuttle flight in history, the 33<sup>rd</sup> for Atlantis, and the 37<sup>th</sup> Shuttle flight to the ISS.  Primary payload for Atlantis is the Italian-built MPLM (Multi-Purpose Logistics Module) Raffaello, fully loaded with supply for ISS.  The mission includes one spacewalk, about 6.5 hrs in length, to be conducted on FD5 by Garan &amp; Fossum.  355 individuals will have flown 852 times on 135 shuttle missions since STS-1 launched on April 12, 1981.  Sixteen countries have been represented on shuttle missions: Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine and the United States.  Fourteen people died during two accidents: STS-51L on Jan. 28, 1986 and STS-107 on Feb. 1, 2003.  The five orbiters have flown 537,114,016 miles. STS-135 will add more than four million miles to the total.  More than 2,000 experiments have been conducted on the shuttles in the fields of Earth, biological and materials sciences and astronomy.  The shuttles have docked to two space stations: Between 1994 and 1998, nine missions flew to the Russian Mir.  With STS-135, 37 shuttle missions will have flown to the International Space Station.  Shuttles have landed at the Kennedy Space Center 77 times, Edwards Air Force Base in California 54 times and the White Sands Test Facility, N.M. once.  In launch configuration, the space shuttle, external tank, twin solid rocket boosters, and the three space shut-tle main engines contain about 2.5 million moving parts.]
 
MISSON FLIGHT DAY TIMELINE 
FD 1: STS-135 is targeted to launch at 11:26 a.m. EDT on July 8 from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida. 
FD 2: The crew will perform a survey of the Thermal Protection System (TPS), the heat shield that protects the shuttle on reentry, and prepare for docking to the International Space Station on FD3. 
FD 3: Atlantis will perform a Rendezvous Pitch Maneuver, a backflip to expose its underside for the station crew to photograph. The shuttle will dock to the space station and the crews will open the hatches. 
FD 4: The crew will temporarily attach the Raffaello multi-purpose logistics module to the station’s Harmony module and review and prepare for FD5’s spacewalk. 
FD 5: Expedition 28 astronauts Michael Fossum and Ron Garan will perform a spacewalk to transfer a failed ammonia pump to the shuttle cargo bay, transfer the RRM to the station and place an experiment on ELC-2 for long-duration exposure. 
FD 6: The crew will unpack more than 8,000 pounds of supplies from Raffaello (or the shuttle crew will per-form a focused inspection of the TPS, if necessary). 
FD 7: The crews will finish unpacking Raffaello in the morning and have off-duty time in the evening. 
FD 8: The crew will stow more than 5,000 pounds of cargo in Raffaello that will be returned to Earth. 
FD 9: The crews will finish stowing items in Raffaello, prepare it for unberthing and return it to Atlantis. The shuttle crew will have off-duty time in the evening. 
FD 10: Raffaello will be unberthed from Harmony and returned to Atlantis' cargo bay. After final farewells, the crews will close the hatches for the final time between a space shuttle and the International Space Station. 
FD 11: Atlantis will undock from the station and will fly around for visual surveys of the station. The crew members then will conduct late inspection of the TPS in preparation for their return to Earth. 
FD 12: The astronauts will perform standard checks of the shuttle’s systems in preparation for landing. They also will pay tribute to Atlantis and the Space Shuttle Program. Before leaving orbit, the crew will deploy the Solar Cell Experiment, a 5"x5"x10" satellite. 
FD 13: STS-135 is targeted to land at 7:06 a.m. on July 20 at Kennedy. 
 
Before breakfast &amp; exercise, CDR Borisenko, FE-1 Samokutyayev &amp; FE-4 Volkov each completed a 10-min session with the periodic Russian MedOps test MO-10 "Hematokrit", which measures the red cell count of the blood, with one of them acting as CMO (Crew Medical Officer, Russian: “Examiner”).  Andrey then stowed the equipment.  It was the first session for FE-4, the 2<sup>nd</sup> for the CDR &amp; FE-1.     [The blood samples were drawn from a finger with a perforator lancet, then centrifuged in two microcapillary tubes in the M-1100 kit's minicentrifuge, and its Hematocrit value was read off the tubes with a magnifying glass.  It is a well-known phenomenon of space flight that red blood cell count (normal range: 30-45%) tends to go down over time.  After the exam, the data were saved in the IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).]
 
The CDR terminated his 4<sup>th</sup> experiment session, started last night, for the long-term Russian sleep study MBI-12/Sonokard, taking the recording device from his Sonokard sports shirt pocket and later copying the measurements to the RSE-Med laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground.      [Sonokard objectives are stated to (1) study the feasibility of obtaining the maximum of data through computer processing of records obtained overnight, (2) systematically record the crewmember’s physiological functions during sleep, (3) study the feasibility of obtaining real-time crew health data.  Investigators believe that contactless acquisition of cardiorespiratory data over the night period could serve as a basis for developing efficient criteria for evaluating and predicting adaptive capability of human body in long-duration space flight.]
 
After taking his body mass with the MO-8 (Body Mass Measurement) with the IMT mass measurement device, Sergei Volkov conducted his first MBI-24 “SPRUT-2” (“Squid-2”) onboard test, part of Russian medical research on the distribution and behavior of human body fluids in zero gravity, along with PZEh-MO-8 body mass measurement using the IM device.       [Supported by the RSE-Med A31p laptop with new software (Vers. 1.6) in the SM, the test uses the Profilaktika kit, with data recorded on PCMCIA memory cards, along with the crewmember’s body mass values and earlier recorded MO-10 Hematocrit value, but skipping “fat fold” measurements.  Experiment requisites are the Sprut securing harness, skin electrodes (cuffs), and RSS-Med for control and data storage.  The “Pinguin” suit or Braslet-M cuffs, if worn, have to be taken off first.  Electrode measurements are recorded at complete rest and relaxed body position.  The actual recording takes 3-5 minutes, during which the patient has to remain at complete rest.]
 
In the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), FE-3 Garan took photographs of the RGSH AORG (Return Grid Sensor Housing add-on screens) at Bay D0 to document any debris captured during the past week.
 
Afterwards, Garan completed the periodic (weekly) maintenance of the CSI (Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus 5 / Science Insert), deactivating &amp; decabling CGBA-5, accessing CSI-05, performing spider feeding activity, then closing up CGBA, recabling and reactivating it.  The spider girls have been spinning perfectly circular webs – which they are not known to do on Earth.        [SHAB (Spider Hab) video is monitoring for 24 hours after feeding activity unit.  The spider is called the Nephila clavipes.  It is also known as the “Banana Spider” because of its yellow banana shaped body.  It is sometimes referred to as the “Golden Silk” or “Golden Orb” spider because its web has a golden hue when viewed in the sunlight.  It is commonly found in the southern parts of the US, particularly Florida, but it can be found throughout all parts of the southern United States including Alabama and Texas.  The two spiders in the habitats (Gladys &amp; Esmerelda) are juvenile females and are only about ½ in. long.  When female Nephila clavipes complete their last molt and become mature adults, they can be over 3 in. long and their webs over 3 ft across.  (Unfortunately, these space spiders will most likely not live until adulthood nor will they get quite that large).  To keep the spiders as healthy as possible for as long as possible, they are given a diet of wild type fruit flies.  The fruit flies are provided a diet enriched with extra protein.  The protein is ground-up dog food that is added to their normal diet of potato flakes.  The spider scientists are interested in the Nephila clavipes because she builds a three-dimensional web on the ground that appears disorganized but is in fact very ordered.  The hypothesis is these spiders will not build as much 3 dimension into their web given the absence of gravity.  This may help scientists more clearly understand the purpose of the 3D web on Earth.] 
 
Ron also conducted the regular (~weekly) inspection &amp; maintenance, as required, of the CGBA-4  and CGBA-5 payloads in their ERs (EXPRESS Racks).
 
Later, FE-3 serviced the WRS (Water Recovery System) by accessing the RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) of the WRS-2 rack and reconfiguring the setup for the periodic RFTA backfill with a QD (Quick Disconnect) hose, which was then stowed and the RFTA activity closed out.
 
In anticipation of ULF7, Sergei Volkov moved Russian cargo items from US stowage zones in the FGB to other locations.
 
FE-5 Furukawa initiated another sampling run with the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer) and deactivated the system ~5 hrs later.       [This was the 3<sup>rd</sup> session with the replaced GC/DMS unit #1001, after the previous instrument (#1004) was used for 37 runs after it had replaced the earlier instrument, #1002, which was used for approximately 7 sessions.  Also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop (due to a software glitch, the software needs to be opened, closed, and then reopened in order to ensure good communication between GC/DMS and SSC-12).  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.
 
In Node-3, Satoshi also enabled power to the Cupola DCP UOP (Display &amp; Control Panel / Utility Outlet Panel), routing the external Lab video camera to all 3 monitors and verifying good video signal.
 
In the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), with the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) camcorder pointed to cover his activities, FE-6 Fossum collected a sample of the coolant and the antimicrobial agent OPA (Ortho-phthalaldehyde) from the COL TCS (Thermal Control System) for return to the ground, using a spare coolant sampling adapter after purging (flushing) it. 
 
After powering off the MPI (Multi-Panel Indicator) in the MRM1 Rassvet module, with BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system with VD-SU control mode also disabled, Borisenko &amp; Samokutyayev had several hours for replacing the old BZh Liquid Unit of the Russian Elektron-VM oxygen generator with the new BZh delivered on Progress 43P.     [MPI was then re-enabled and BITS2-12 connectors mated at Elektron.  BITS2-12 enables the ground to monitor and control RS onboard systems.]
 
Andrey also prepared Russian EVA (Extravehicular Activities) equipment &amp; tools for USOS (US Orbit Segment) EVA training tasks and transferred them to Fossum for stowage in the US A/L (Airlock).
 
FE-4 Volkov set up and checked out the Russian TEKh-15/DAKON-M IZGIB (“Bend”) experiment in the SM (Service Module) for taking structural dynamics data during the upcoming Shuttle docking.      [IZGIB has the objective to help update mathematical models of the ISS gravitation environment, using accelerometers of the Russian SBI Onboard Measurement System, the GIVUS high-accuracy angular rate vector gyrometer of the SUDN Motion Control &amp; Navigation System and other accelerometers for unattended measurement of micro-accelerations at science hardware accommodation locations - (1) in operation of onboard equipment having rotating parts (gyrodynes, fans), (2) when establishing and keeping various ISS attitude modes, and (3) when performing crew egresses into space and physical exercises.]
 
Later, Sergei configured the pumping equipment with the electric compressor and then started the transfer of urine from EDV-U container to BV2 Rodnik water storage tank of Progress 43P (#411) which he had emptied of its water on 6/30.      [Each of the spherical Rodnik tanks BV1 &amp; BV2 consists of a hard shell with a soft membrane (bladder) composed of elastic fluoroplastic.  The bladder is used to expel water from the tank by compressed air pumped into the tank volume surrounding the membrane and is leak-tested before urine transfers, i.e., with empty tanks, the bladders are expanded against the tank walls and checked for hermeticity.]
 
FE-4 also conducted routine maintenance on the SM SRVK-2M Condensate Water Processor system by replacing its BKO multifiltration unit with a spare, discarding the old unit and updating the IMS (Inventory Management System).  (Last time done: 6/6/11).      [BKO contains five purification columns to rid the condensate of dissolved mineral and organic impurities.  It has a service lifetime of ~450 liters throughput.  The water needs to be purified for proper electrolysis in the Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator.  The Russian SRVK-2M converts collected condensate into drinking water and dispenses the reclaimed potable water.]
 
After FE-3 Garan broke out and set up the appropriate equipment, Mike Fossum acted as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) for Ron’s 3<sup>rd</sup> session with the periodic 30-min US PHS (Periodic Health Status)/Without Blood Labs exam.  They then “turned tables”, with Mike becoming the subject, his first session, and Ron serving as operator/CMO.  Afterwards, FE-3 logged the data and stowed the equipment.  A subjective evaluation was part of the test.      [The assessment used the AMP (Ambulatory Medical Pack), stethoscope, oral disposable thermometer and ABPC (Automatic Blood Pressure Cuff) from the ALSP (Advanced Life Support Pack).  All data were then logged on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) and the hardware stowed.  The PHS exam is guided by special IFEP (In-Flight Examination Program) software on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) laptop.]
 
Garan replaced the old printer (#1017) in the SM with a new printer (Epson, #1016) delivered on ULF4, then configured it to work on the OpsLAN/JSL (Operations Local Area Network/Joint Station LAN).     [Printer #1017 will be returned to Earth on ULF7.]
 
In the Lab, Ron &amp; Mike later took time out for a review of uplinked transfer procedures, then moved science samples in their coldbags from MELFI-2 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 2) to the ER2 GLACIER (Express Rack 2 / General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator).     
 
FE-5 Furukawa conducted Part 3 of the current new JAXA life science experiment CsPINs (Dynamism of Auxin Efflux Facilitators responsible for Gravity-regulated Growth and Development in Cucumber) by starting Run 2-4, setting up the D2Xs camera for taking macro photography with flash light of the sample, then conducted the experiment.        [Satoshi retrieved five CsPINs KFT AAE(Kennedy Fixation Tubes with Acetic Acid Ethanol, ##501-503 &amp; ##902/903) from MELFI 1 (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS 1), Dewar 4, Tray C/Sect. 3-4, detached one MEU B (Measurement Experiment Unit B) from the CBEF (Cell Biology Experiment Facility) Micro-G IU (Incubation Unit) and 2 MEU Bs from CBEF 1G IU, inserted the samples in the KFTs for fixation in AAE and stored them in MELFI at +2 degC.  It’s critical to keep to the accurate incubation time for the samples (26h) and to fixate &amp; cold-stow CsPINs samples immediately after incubation to prevent loss of science.  Background: CsPINs studies the phenomenon of tropism, i.e., the growth or turning movement of a biological organism, usually a plant, in response to an environmental stimulus.  Specifically focusing on gravity, the new JAXA experiment investigates how plants sense gravity as an environmental signal and use it for governing their morphology and growth orientation.  CsPINs plays an important role in the regulation of gravity-dependent redistribution of auxin (a class of plant hormones) and thereby controls gravimorphogenesis (peg formation) in cucumber (Cucmis sativus L.) seedlings.  Gravitropism also interferes with hydrotropism in cucumber roots, in which the dynamism of these facilitators may also play a role.  Cucumber (Cucmis sativus) seedlings are used to analyze the effect of gravity on the expressions of CsPINs and unravel their contributions to peg formation.  Hydrotropism is differentiated from gravitropism in roots, and the expressions of CsPINs are compared to determine the interacting mechanism between the two tropisms.] 
 
Working on the RSS2 laptop, Kondratyev cleared all data files of the high-speed RSPI Radio Data Transmission System from their storage folders. 
 
Sasha Samokutyayev downlinked log files from the BSPN payload server over the high-speed RSPI Radio System for Information Transfer.      [RSPI enables the RS to downlink large data files using Russian communication assets, similar to the USOS OCA (Orbiter Communication Adapter) system.  The external RSPI antenna was mounted on the SM exterior during the Orlan EVA-27 on 1/21.] 
 
FE-3 Garan conducted a session with the new VIABLE (eValuatIon And monitoring of microBiofiLms insidE the ISS) payload, deployed in the FGB to collect environment samples, touching and then blowing on the top of each of the 4 VIABLE bags.     [The ASI/NASA experiment VIABLE to evaluate the microbial biofilm development on space materials has both metallic and textile space materials, either conventional or innovative, located inside and on the cover of Nomex pouches that are placed inside the ISS.]
 
In Node-3, FE-6 Fossum took samples of pre-treated urine from Russian EDV-U container #388 using a Ku-band power supply, after flushing the sample adapter from a CWC (Contingency Water Container).
 
Ron, Satoshi &amp; Mike filled out their weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).  It was the 10<sup>th</sup> time for Ron, 3<sup>rd</sup> time for Satoshi &amp; Mike.     [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
FE-3, FE-5 &amp; FE-6 had several hours for prepacking cargo to be returned to Earth on ULF7.  In Node-3, Ron cleaned out stowage from Bay A2, and Satoshi was scheduled for a prepack debrief tagup at ~2:25pm EDT.
 
Garan also had ~30 min for cleaning out the US A/L in preparation for the ULF7 EVA, unstowing unneeded items.
 
At ~7:15am, Sasha, Andrey &amp; Sergei linked up with TsUP-Moscow stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
At ~4:20pm, the three crewmembers are scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-Houston.
 
Before “Presleep” period tonight, Ron Garan powers on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starts the data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, MPC will be turned off again.     [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (CDR, FE-1, FE-4), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-1, FE-4).  No exercise reported for Mike Fossum.
 
WRM Update:    A new WRM (Water Recovery Management) “cue card” was uplinked to the crew for their reference, updated with their latest CWC (Contingency Water Container) water audit.      [The new card (28-0014E) lists 100 good CWCs (2,160.4 L total) for the five types of water identified on board: 1. technical water (20 CWCs with 816.6 L, for Elektron electrolysis, incl. 562.0 L in 14 bags containing Wautersia bacteria and 134.2 L in 3 clean bags for contingency use;  2. Silver potable water (no CWCs);  3. iodinated water (68 CWCs with 1,241.3 L (also 36 expired or leaking bags with 658.8 L);  4. condensate water (66.2 L in 7 bags, plus 4 empty bags); and  5. waste/EMU dump and other (36.3 L in 2 CWCs, incl. 20.2 L from hose/pump flush).  Wautersia bacteria are typical water-borne microorganisms that have been seen previously in ISS water sources.  These isolates pose no threat to human health.]
 
CEO targets uplinked for today were Damascus, Syria (looking just right of track.  The city and surrounding area appear as a dark zone due to local intensive agriculture), Yerevan, Armenia (looking left of track.  The city appears as a darker patch.  Uptrack visual cues are first Mt Ararat, then a wide valley of green agriculture.   Downtrack cues are another mountain mass and Lake Sevan.  Overlapping frames of the urban and surrounding rural area are requested.  Yerevan is one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in the world, with a history that dates back to the 8<sup>th</sup> century BCE), Aral Sea, central Asia (looking right to document waterbody levels in the various subbasins), and Tripoli, Libya (looking right for this capital city.  The city can be difficult to discern: look on the coast where port facilities jut out into the Mediterranean Sea).
 

