
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): The CFT crew assisted the ISS crew with the Enhanced European Exploration Exercise Device (E4D) Rack Swap.
Payloads:
Astrobee/Integrated System for Autonomous and Adaptive Caretaking-16 (ISAAC-16): The crew cleared the experiment area and assisted with the ISAAC-16 science session. Although issues were experienced with one of the two Astrobees, most of the objectives were still able to be accomplished with a single Astrobee. ISAAC demonstrates the ability of robots to track vehicle health, cargo transfer, and respond to off-nominal events. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Inter-orbit Communication System (ICS) Rack: The crew performed a video tour of the internal areas of the ICS rack to assess the area for future experiment installation. The ICS systems support communication, command and data handling in the JEM.
Surface Avatar: The crew reviewed the Big Picture Words (BPW) and loaded the experiment software to prepare for an upcoming science session. This experiment studies the control of a team of ground robots by an astronaut on the ISS using a force-feedback joystick. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
E4D Rack Swap: Today, the crew performed a rack swap in support of the future E4D payload.  The Muscle Atrophy Resistive Exercise System (MARES) originally installed in the PMM was transferred to the COL module to replace the Zero-G Soft Rack (ZSR), which was moved to the PMM.  After completing the rack swap activity, the crew performed hatch seal inspections on any hatches the racks translated through.
On Board Training (OBT) 71S Emergency Descent Drill: The three 71 crew members performed a Soyuz Emergency Descent drill.  This training session focused on off-nominal procedures that would be used in the event the crew needed to egress the ISS and perform an emergency descent. Soyuz Emergency Descent drills are routinely scheduled after 12-14 weeks after arrival, and every 2.5 months hereafter.
