
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD) Installation:  In preparation for the planned satellite launch on Wednesday, the crew installed the NRCSD-16 hardware on the Multipurpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) which is attached to the Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) slide table.  The slide table was subsequently retracted, and the JEMAL was closed and depressurized. The NRCSD is a self-contained CubeSat deployer system for small satellites staged from the ISS. The NRCSD is transported to orbit inside the Pressurized Cargo Module of ISS cargo resupply vehicles and utilizes the ISS Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) as a staging facility for operation. The NRCSD is integrated with payloads (CubeSats) on the ground.
Veg-04A: The crew performed a routine plant check, watered the plants as appropriate, and weighed any broken leaves using the Mass Measurement Device.  Another crew member completed a review of the on-board training material for the investigation. The Mizuna plants are currently on day 27 of a planned 28 day growth period, but due to some slow growth, the plants will be given an extra week to grow and will be harvested next week.  A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight; the Veggie Vegetable Production System (Veggie) has begun testing aboard the ISS to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-04A focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 28-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space. 
Water Recovery System (WRS) Multifiltration Bed: The Crew reconfigured the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) from a dual-bed Multifiltration configuration to single-bed. Multifiltration Bed Unit 1 was removed and Unit 2 was replaced with a new unit. The updated single bed operations are based on on-orbit experience with the Multifiltration Beds and ground testing to confirm the behavior of ionic breakthrough through the beds indicating one bed is sufficient for filtration. Additionally, the reduced bed configuration tests a concept for reducing the Multifiltration Bed size for exploration to match the mission duration. 
Catalytic Reactor Remove & Replace (R&R) Preparations: In preparation for the Catalytic Reactor replacement planned tomorrow, the crew removed portions of Treadmill 2 (T2) in Node 3 and installed Active Rack Isolation System (ARIS) pivot fittings to the Water Recovery System (WRS) Rack. This activity allows access to rotate WRS-1 Rack. T2 will not be available for exercise until after the Catalytic Reactor replacement.
Remote Power Controller Module (RPCM) Trip to Lab Deck 6 Rack Smoke Detector: RPCM LAD62B_A’s RPC 2 tripped on June 30, resulting in a loss of smoke detection in the Lab Deck 6 (LAD6) rack. Five re-closures of the RPC were attempted and all resulted in immediate trips.  Data shows no evidence of an overcurrent event for any of the trips which indicates a known RPCM Field Effect Transistor Controller Hybrid (FCH) issue. LAD6 is the Air Revitalization System 1 (ARS-1) rack, housing the Lab Avionics Air Assembly (AAA), Lab Major Constituent Analyzer (MCA), Lab Trace Contaminant Control System (TCCS) as well as various Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) hardware. Flight Rule for Rack Smoke Detection Management requires racks with AAA fans to be powered down in the event of loss of smoke detection, hence ground teams have powered down all equipment in the rack. As of now, Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) is prime for Carbon Dioxide removal, and the Node 3 MCA and TCCS are prime. Teams are investigating the anomaly.

