
Payloads
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF): The crew performed the steps necessary to gain access to the internal areas of ELF, change out the sample holder, and replace a gas bottle. JAXA’s ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by container-less processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. ELF typically processes oxide samples, but is also capable of processing semiconductors, alloys, and metals.
Functional Immune: In support of the Functional Immune investigation, the crew collected saliva samples using two different methods. The human immune system is altered during spaceflight, which may increase the likelihood of adverse health events in crew members. The Functional Immune Alterations, Latent Herpesvirus Reactivation, Physiological Stress and Clinical Incidence Onboard the ISS (Functional Immune) investigation analyzes blood and saliva samples to determine the changes taking place in crew members’ immune systems during flight. The changes in the immune system are also compared with crew members’ self-reported health information. Results are expected to provide new insight into the possible health risks of long-duration space travel, including future missions to Mars, asteroids, or other distant destinations.
Moderate Temperature Protein Crystallization Growth (MTPCG) #6F: The MTPCG samples were removed from their cold stowage location and packed for return to the ground. The crystals have been growing since the experiment began in mid-June. JAXA’s MTPCG investigation is designed to grow high quality protein crystals in microgravity. The crystals are returned to Earth to determine protein structures in detail. The structures are used to develop pharmaceutical drugs, and to explore the mystery of our lives. The protein samples are launched to the ISS by a cargo resupply vehicle and crystallized at 20°C using the counter-diffusion method.
Veggie Monitor Material Review and Photo: The crew took photos while performing Veggie Monitoring surface sample collection operations. Culture-based Environmental Monitoring of Crop-based Space Food Systems (Veggie Monitoring) collects microbial samples from the surface of the station’s Veggie plant production system in conjunction with quarterly Environmental Health System (EHS) sample collection. Longer exploration missions require space-based systems for growth of plants, and this investigation is expected to help establish requirements to protect these systems, plants, and crew from contamination.
Veggie Profile of Mood States (POMS): Using the Data Collection Tool (DCT) on an available Space Station Computer (SSC), the crew completed a POMS questionnaire. The research of Human Research Facility (HRF) Veg focuses on the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space for various plants grown by other investigations.
Systems
Cargo Dragon Departure Preparations: The crew completed several activities in preparation of the Cargo Dragon SpaceX-22 (SpX-22) departure. The crew completed Mid-Tier cargo loading, Cargo Dragon Departure On-Board Training (OBT), and reconfigured cold stowage assets on the vehicle. The crew transferred a powered Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator (MERLIN) from SpX-22 to ISS and transferred a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER) from ISS to SpX-22. Due to inclement weather off the coast of Florida, SpX-22 undock has been delayed to Wednesday, July 7th to return cargo and payloads to the ground. SpaceX will continue to monitor weather conditions for the next undock opportunity and reassess as needed.
Zero-G Stowage Rack (ZSR) Insert Remove & Replace (R&R): The crew performed an R&R of the worn NOD1O4 ZSR Insert B using the spare Insert salvaged from the Crew Alternate Sleep Accommodation (CASA) modification in COL1O4. The NOD1O4 ZSR Insert B is highly susceptible to being contaminated by food particles due to its proximity to the Galley Table, and therefore an R&R was desired. The NOD1O4 ZSR is used to stow common use items such as trash bags, office supplies, and rubber gloves.

