
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): The CFT crew completed the Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Refill of the LAB and COL Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Pump Package Assembly (PPA) Accumulators.  The CFT crew also continued assisting the ISS crew in Cygnus Cargo Transfer operations.
Payloads:
Hicari-II: Sample (S/N 010) was separated from the Hicari-II cartridge and was prepared for return. More information about this experiment can be found here.
Sleep in Orbit: A crewmember prepared and initiated an overnight sleep data collection session. More information on the Sleep in Orbit experiment can be found here.
Surface Avatar: The crew prepared the Surface Avatar robot control terminal hardware and performed a checkout on both hand-controllers. This experiment studies the control of a team of ground robots by an astronaut on the ISS using a force-feedback joystick. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Enhanced European Exploration Exercise Device (E4D) Rack Swap Stowage operations: The crew finished the restow operations left over from the E4D Rack Swap on Friday.  The old contents of the Muscle Atrophy Resistive Exercise System (MARES) were restowed into the gutted and newly reinstalled Zero-G Soft Rack (ZSR), and vice versa.  The E4D rack swap was completed on Friday in support of the future E4D payload.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) FSS Setup and Refill of LAB and COL LTL PPA Accumulators: Today, the crew set up the FSS and refilled both the LAB and COL MTL PPA Accumulators. The ITCS provides equipment cooling and heat rejection through a combination of water loops and interface heat exchangers. The FSS is used to assist in the startup, maintenance, and repair of water lines and systems in racks on the ISS.
Transfer Cygnus Cargo Operations: Today, the crew continued cargo transfer operations between the ISS and the NG-20 cargo vehicle. NG-20 is scheduled to remain on ISS until July 12th when it will unberth from ISS for an eventual destructive re-entry in the Earth’s atmosphere. Due to its destructive re-entry, Cygnus provides an opportunity to offload some of the unwanted mass onboard the ISS.
