
Payloads:
Grip: The crew performed the third and final day of the experiment session, transferred the data, and stowed the experiment hardware. The Grip experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kinds of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
Standard Measures (SM): A pre-sleep questionnaire was filled out in support of the SM investigation. Spaceflight Standard Measures (Standard Measures or simply SM) collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crew members until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): The furnace probe was removed and one of the repaired preforms was installed in preparation for a subsequent sample run. A preform is a cylindrical rod of raw material from which the glass fiber is pulled as it’s passed through the ring-shaped furnace. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Systems:
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis.
In-Flight Maintenance Activities: An audit of the Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) consumables was performed to determine whether there is a shortage or excess of supplies. The crew also cleaned up the cabling and electronic equipment in the Lab to reduce clutter and snag hazards and increase habitability.
Regenerative ECLSS Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. The EDV is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities and to store water and urine for disposal. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the UTS.
In Flight Maintenance (IFM) Airlock Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Flow Correction: In preparation for the Galley Rack swap, the crew powered down the Airlock Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) and downstream hardware and performed Airlock power safing actions prior to ground powerdown. The swap from the Lab MTL to Node 3 MTL cooling is to support the Oxygen Generator System (OGS)/Life Support Rack (LSR) rack swap. The crew then corrected the flow to the Airlock by dekeying and swapping the Node 1 Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) supply and return hoses.

