
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): The CFT crew continues to assist the ISS crew with maintenance and stowage activities.  Today the CFT crew finished configuring the failed Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) for return and completed a Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Piping and Hose Remove and Replace (R&R).
Payloads:
Actiwatch Plus (AWP): The crew doffed their Actiwatches and stowed them. These watches are used to monitor activity and light exposure to help determine sleep-wake adaptation and circadian cycle. More information on the Actiwatch capabilities can be found here.
JEM Internal Ball Camera 2 (Int Ball 2): A crewmember relocated the Int Ball 2 and associated hardware to a different area. The Int Ball-2 robot uses a series of cameras, ultrasonic distance sensors, propulsion fans, reaction wheels, and wireless communication to perform its functions. More information on Int Ball-2 can be found here.
Thor-Davis: The crew set up the Thor-Davis experiment hardware and observed several thunderstorm areas for targets of interest. Thor Davis studies the interaction of thunderstorms with the upper atmosphere. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
In Flight Maintenance Activities: Today, the crew performed several activities as part of in-flight maintenance.  A failed PCPA was configured for return.  The WHC Piping between the Pump Separator and Dose Pump was replaced.  The crew and ground specialists performed a Remote Power controller (RPC) close test to identify a potential short circuit.  After the results of the RPC close test, the crew removed and replaced the Node 3 Port Forward Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Fan, and cleaned the IMV Fan Inlet and Outlet silencers.
Stowage Activities in Support of Enhanced European Exploration Exercise Device (E4D) Rack Swap: Several stowage areas of the station were tidied or cleared of stowage in preparation for the E4D Rack Swap planned for later this week.  The crew cleared several locations in the PMM and COL.  The E4D rack swap will consist of uninstalling, swapping, and reinstalling a Zero-G Soft Rack (ZSR) currently located in the COL module with the Muscle Atrophy Resistive Exercise System (MARES) rack in the PMM.
