
Circadian Rhythms: FE-6 Gerst donned the Circadian Rhythms hardware to start a 36 hour data take. The main objective of the experiment is to get a better basic understanding of any alterations in circadian rhythms in humans during long-term space flights. This data will provide important insights into the adaptations of the human autonomic nervous system in space over time, but also has significant practical implications by helping to improve physical exercise, rest- and work shifts as well as fostering adequate workplace illumination in the sense of occupational healthcare in future space missions.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fluids Control and Pump Assembly (FCPA) Remove & Replace (R&R): Commander (CDR) Swanson successfully replaced the UPA FCPA that shutdown on Saturday.  Checkout is complete and the UPA will be activated this evening.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Sample Collection: Gerst obtained ITCS fluid samples from Node 3 today.  Test strips were used to confirm no Interface Heat Exchanger (IFHX) microleaks were evident based on the quantity of Ortho-Phthalaldehyde (OPA) detected.  Swanson completed sampling of the Lab, Node 2, Columbus and Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) last week.
On Board Training (OBT) ISS Emergency Simulation:  All 6 crewmembers participated in an ISS emergency simulation and debrief.  The purpose of this drill was to practice ISS emergency responses based on information provided by the onboard simulator. The crew physically translated through ISS to appropriate locations in order to visualize the use of station equipment and interfaces. They also practiced procedure execution and associated decision making, all while exercising communication skills with MCC-H and MCC-M.
Video Survey of the ISS: FE-5 Wiseman took video of the interior volume which allows the ground team to assess the current vehicle configuration and to identify any areas of concern related to ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, emergency egress paths, access to fire ports, and safety equipment. The Safety Video Survey is performed approximately every 6 months.
USOS Hatch Seal Inspection:  Gerst cleaned and inspected 9 USOS hatch seals, hatch plate sealing surface and hatch handle mechanism in Node 2, Node 3, Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM), Columbus, and JEM hatches for Foreign Object Debris (FOD) or damage. No issues were noted and photos will be downlinked for further review.
Direct Current-to-Direct Current Converter Unit (DDCU) Firmware Upgrade: Ground teams began a 2 day activity to update the firmware in all of the 16 parallel DDCUs controlled by the Power Management Controller Unit (PMCU) Multiplexer/Demultiplexer (MDM).   The new firmware includes an update to the DDCU Parallel Input Undervoltage trip functionality to prevent cascading power failures. This functionality will remain inhibited until related procedures and Flight Rules have been updated.

