
New Status:
USOS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) #22 Preparations: In preparation for tomorrow’s planned EVA, Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy and FE-5 Parmitano conducted a final tool configuration followed by an independent tool audit by FE-6 Nyberg. All three crew, plus FE-4 Yurchikhin, completed a final procedures review, and then the USOS crew members participated in a procedures review with ground teams. Later, Nyberg set up the Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) software for tomorrow’s Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) activities.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations:  Today, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and re-rigidized the Mobile Base System (MBS) Payload and On-orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA).   They then unlatched the MBS POA from the Port Radiator Grapple Bar (RGB) Latching Grapple Fixture (LGF) in preparation for the EVA# 22 RGB release from the MBS POA.  The Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the MBS have been left operational ready for USOS EVA 22 support tomorrow.
Water Processing Assembly Status: On Friday, July 5, the WPA shut down during a processing run due to a Processing Fault 1. The leak fault annunciated; however, the pressure data was consistent with a flow obstruction.  After a 15 minute leak check in standby, another process cycle was initiated but it terminated due to a high temperature fault. The Flight Control Team decided to stand down from further troubleshooting until engineering teams could assess the problem.  Controllers then reconfigured the WHC to internal [EДВ], transferred water from a CWC to the water storage tank, and reconfigured the condensate collect from Node 3 to the Lab.  Engineering teams met today and determined that the likely cause of the temperature fault is increased dP across the particulate filter restricting water flow through the pre-heater. Ground controllers are currently implementing a temporary workaround to increase the pump speed during the low-flow portion of the processing run, and at the time of the authoring this report the WPA is proceeding as expected. To correct the problem long term, the WPA particulate filter will be replaced.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Periodic Health Status (PHS) Pre-EVA Evaluation: With assistance from Nyberg as Crew Medical Officer (CMO), Cassidy and Parmitano completed a routine health status evaluation prior to tomorrow’s EVA.
Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students (EarthKAM): On Saturday, Nyberg set up the payload components in Node 2 and activated the camera and software for a week-long imaging session. EarthKAM is an education program that enables thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the International Space Station. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The team at EarthKAM then posts these photographs on the Internet for the public and participating classrooms around the world to view.

