
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): The CFT crew continued assisting the ISS crew in cargo transfer and stowage cleanup activities.  The CFT crew also tested the air flow of the Plant Habitat Air Pump-Filter and performed a bi-weekly housekeeping inspection.
Payloads:
B Complex: A crewmember consolidated the contents of the partially filled supplement bottle with a new bottle and then trashed the empty bottle. B Complex studies the use of B-vitamins as a countermeasure for Spaceflight associated neuro-ocular syndrome (SANS), a condition which changes the vision in some astronauts. More information on this experiment can be found here.
ISS Ham Radio: The crew participated in an ISS Ham contact with St. Luke’s College, Buenos Aires, Argentina. Some of the questions asked by the students included what kind of scientific research is being performed on the ISS, the astronaut’s favorite food, and how modern EVAs compare to those in the Gemini or Apollo days. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Plant Habitat: The crew assisted with the performance of a pump filter test. A series of repairs have recently been performed on Plant Habitat facility to prepare for science activities scheduled for later this year. More information on Plant Habitat can be found here.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle schools (EarthKAM): The crew reconfigured the EarthKAM Cargo Transfer Bag (CTB) to prepare for upcoming activities. EarthKAM allows student teams from all over the world to request various sites for the ISS window-mounted camera to capture. More information on EarthKAM can be found here.
Surface Avatar: The crew prepared a bootable disk for upcoming Surface Avatar science activities. This experiment studies the control of a team of ground robots by an astronaut on the ISS using a force-feedback joystick. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Thor-Davis: The crew reviewed the big picture words and prepared the Thor-Davis experiment hardware for upcoming science activities. Thor Davis studies the interaction of thunderstorms with the upper atmosphere. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Transparent Alloys (TA): The crew exchanged the full TA data disk with a new data disk. Transparent Alloys is currently performing a series of Columnar-Equiaxed Transition in Solidification (CETSOL) experiments. More information on the Transparent Alloys-CETSOL investigation can be found here.
Systems:
Health Maintenance System (HMS) On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (OOHA): The crew performed hearing tests using an OOHA Headset and KUDUwave software. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.
Stowage Audits and Consolidation: Today, the crew performed several cleanup, audit, and general stowage activities.  An audit to check COL spare system component integrity was performed as part of the ISS Life Extension Assessment.  A PMM audit was completed in support of future payload operations.  A SpaceX Return Staging Bag audit was completed in preparation for the SpX-31 mission.  The crew consolidated food stowage in NODE 1 and the PMM.  Photos of the various audits and stowage consolidations were taken and downlinked for ground teams. Finally, Cygnus Cargo Operations continued in preparation for the scheduled NG-20 unberth in July.
Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT2) Exam: The crew completed routine OCT eye exams. OCT is an imaging technique analogous to ultrasound imaging that uses light instead of sound to capture micrometer-resolution, two- and three-dimensional images of tissue; in this case, the objects of interest are the crewmembers’ eyes. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board to monitor crewmembers’ eye health. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body that may be affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment.
Extravehicular Vehicular Activities (EVA) Operations: Today, the crew continued follow-up operations after the aborted EVA on June 24th. The crew initiated a battery autocycle and deconfigured the airlock.  The next spacewalk is scheduled for July 29th.
