
SpaceX (SpX)-11 Departure/Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: On Monday, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to position Dragon for release.  At 1:41am CDT the ISS Crew released Dragon and backed the SSRMS away. Following Dragon departure, Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position and provided video support of the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ACBM) petals closure. Dragon splashed down in the Pacific Ocean at ~7:15am CDT.  Recovery forces then retrieved more than 4100 lbs of cargo, including human and animal science samples, biotechnology studies, and physical science and education investigations.
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  On Sunday the crew cleaned the Animal Access Unit in preparation for injections today. Today they set up the Bone Densitometer and the ground performed a quality control check. They then completed injections of half of the RR-5 mice remaining on the ISS in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and performed bone densitometer scans of each of those mice. Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight. The Bone Densitometer device measures the density of minerals in bone. Quantitative measures of bone loss in mice during orbital space flight provide data for the development of countermeasures for human crewmembers, as well as for bone-loss syndromes on Earth. 
Cardiac Stem Cells:  On Sunday, the crew removed Life Science hardware from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), concluding Cardiac Stem Cells operations. Cardiac Stem Cells investigates how microgravity affects stem cells and the factors that govern their activity, in order to clarify the role of stem cells in cardiac biology and tissue regeneration. This investigation also supports research into the possible acceleration of the aging process in microgravity.  
Food Acceptability:  The crew completed a Food Acceptability questionnaire today. The investigation seeks to determine the impact on food acceptability on ISS of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system. Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.

