ISS On-Orbit Status 07/05/10
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   US Federal Holiday.   Crew rest day.  Underway: Week 5 of Increment 24.
 
 Crew sleep cycle is shifting left, returning to nominal:  Wake – 5:00am (reg. 2:00am), Sleep – 5:30pm (reg. 5:30pm) EDT.
 
  At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
  CDR Skvortsov began his day with the current experiment session with the KPT-21 Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall/PK-3+) payload, activating the turbopump in the MRM2 “Poisk” module for keeping the vacuum chamber (EB) evacuated.  The turbopump will be deactivated again before sleeptime, at ~5:25pm EDT.    [Main objective of PK-3 is to study wave propagation and dispersion ratio in a dust plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber, at a specified power of HF discharge, pressure, and a varied number of particles.]
 
  FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson, FE-4 Doug Wheelock &amp; FE-6 Shannon Walker began another week-long session of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), Tracy’s 5<sup>th</sup>, the 1<sup>st</sup> for Wheels &amp; Shannon, transferring data from her Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  Also at wake-up, FE-2 conducted a run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
  The six station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  As part of the uborka house cleaning, the Russian crewmembers conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).
 
  CDR Alexander Skvortsov completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.,
 
  Caldwell-Dyson worked with the ground on a functional checkout of the KUBIK-3 thermostat-controlled cooler in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory).     [After unstowing the KUBIK-3 and moving it to the COL D1 location, Tracy changed out its eBox.  After ground checkout, she checked LEDs (light-emitting diodes) and set temperature to +6 degC.  EDR (European Drawer Rack) activation is a ground-only operation.]
 
  Yurchikhin replaced books and updated procedures pages of RODF (Russian Operations Data File) documents brought up on Progress 38P.    [Changes involve 11 different subjects, including the books on Medical Experiments (ME), Technical Experiments (TE), 3 MO books, BKS Auxiliary Computers, EVA from DC1, BTKh Biotechnology, 1 EVA video DVD, etc.]
 
  Kornienko offloaded water from Progress 38P to Progress 37P.     [After setting up the transfer system with hoses &amp; compressor, Mikhail started the pump to transfer water from the BV1 Rodnik tank of the newly arrived 38P (#406), loaded with 150 liters, to the empty BV1 tank of 37P (#405) via the SM.  BV2 of 37P still contains ~50L of water.  The transfer took several compressor restarts.]
 
  The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3, FE-5).    [T2 currently must undergo a snubber inspection between exercise sessions.]
 
 Conjunction Update:   NASA FCT (Flight Control Team) is following a conjunction of the ISS with a piece of orbital debris (Object 31822).  TCA (Time of Closest Approach) for 31822 is 7/6 (Tuesday) at 2:18pm EDT.  The conjunction continues to be classified as a low risk, and no action is necessary at this time. 
 
  No CEO photo targets uplinked for today. 
  
 
