
New Status:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Prep:  Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy and FE-5 Parmitano continued with preparations for next week’s EVA #22 scheduled for July 9.  Cassidy relocated hardware from the Airlock not needed for the EVA and prepared the Airlock to support EVA operations.  Both crewmembers completed the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) On-board Training (OBT) using the Virtual Reality Trainer (VRT), and the Extravehicular Activity Mobility Unit (EMU) Enhanced Caution and Warning System (ECWS) OBT.
Nanoracks Platform-3 Installation: FE-6 Nyberg reviewed the Nanoracks Onboard Computer Based Training (OCBT) materials for accessing NanoRacks platforms, reconfiguration of modules, and operation of the NanoRacks Microscope-1 and Microscope-2. She then installed Nanoracks Platform-3 into the EXpedite PRocessing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) rack.  NanoRacks Platforms are multipurpose research facilities on board the ISS that provide power and data transfer capabilities in support of NanoRacks Modules, which are plug & play experiments from various educational or industrial researchers covering a wide range of disciplines.
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) 1553B Ch B Cable: Nyberg installed new cables in the MSPR to restore redundant 1553B communication.  A communication error on MSPR 1553B channel B was found during MSPR initial checkout because of a problem with the original cable.
ISS Maneuver to Solar Monitoring Observatory (SOLAR) Bias Attitude: Over the weekend, ISS performed a maneuver on momentum management control from the nominal stage attitude to a yaw biased attitude to support the European Space Agency (ESA) sponsored SOLAR payload data collection.  The new attitude allows SOLAR to capture a full 27-day sun rotation. SOLAR is an external monitoring observatory that measures solar spectral irradiance. Controllers will maneuver ISS back to the Torque Equilibrium Attitude TEA for US EVA #22 on July 9th.
34 Soyuz/36 Soyuz Crew Handover Conference. Current ISS crewmembers, CDR Vinogradov, FE-1 Misurkin and Cassidy, passed on lessons learned during a conference with the upcoming 36S crew, Oleg Kotov, Sergey Ryazanskiy and Michael Hopkins.  The purpose is to begin the handover process prior to the arrival on orbit through videocons and data exchanges between the current crew and the upcoming crew.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: On Friday, Robotics Ground Controllers (ROBO) powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into position in preparation for  USOS EVA #22.  During MSS power up, ROBOs performed multiple runs of the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Backup Drive Unit (BDU) diagnostic tests to gather data for the investigation of failures seen when these tests were performed on March 19, 2013.  They also performed the MBS Payload and On-orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Accommodation (POA) checkout on both the primary and the redundant string in preparation for EVA #22 when the Radiator Grapple Bars will be released from the POA.

