
Human Research Facility (HRF) GDS tank photo: The crew took photos of the pressure gauges on the HRF)Gas Delivery System (GDS) gas cylinders which support the Portable Pulmonary Function System (PFS). This is a nominal, periodic requirement to monitor the pressures in the system.  The Portable PFS is an autonomous multi-user facility supporting a broad range of human physiological research experiments under the condition of weightlessness in the areas of respiratory, cardiovascular and metabolic physiology. Portable PFS also represents an evolution to the existing PFS onboard the ISS.
MERLIN4 Install:  MERLIN4 was installed in EXPRESS Rack 8 in preparation to support the Biofabrication Facility in the SpX-18 timeframe.  The MERLIN was powered up today, checked out, and will be powered off Wednesday. The MERLIN incubators are capable of storing samples at temperatures from -20.0°C to +48.5°C.  MERLIN is part of the Cold Stowage Fleet of hardware which includes Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER), Polar, and Coldbags.
The ISS Experience: The crew set up the camera system and captured a crew quarters discussion and Veg-04A harvest targets. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Two-phase Flow (TPF): The crew configured the valve settings to support the ongoing JAXA Two-phase flow (TPF) experiment. The last run of this series is expected to be completed this Wednesday. TPF investigates the heat transfer characteristics of flow boiling in the microgravity environment. This experiment provides a fundamental understanding of the behaviors of bubble formation, liquid-vapor flow in a tube, and how heat is transferred in cooling systems.
Veg-04A Harvest: The crew harvested the Veg-04A Mizuna plants from both Veggie facilities.  Approximately half of the leaves will be returned to the ground for analysis, and half of the leaves are available for crew consumption.  Both the ground analysis and crew tasting of the leaves will compare differences between the plants grown in blue light and plants grown in red light.  The research of Veg-04A focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 28-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.
Redundant United States Crewed Vehicle (USCV) Communications (RUC) Cable: The crew gathered hardware in preparation for tomorrow’s planned RUC cable routing. The new cable will provide voice path redundancy during nominal and emergency USCV mission scenarios in the future.
Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SSRMS) Fine Characterization Operations: Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) and maneuvered the SSRMS and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to grasp the Mobile Base System (MBS) port H-Fixture. Then, the Auto-Wiggle commissioning was executed successfully which is a new software feature that will improve Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) R&R operations. A special software patch was loaded to perform SSRMS Force Moment Sensor (FMS) fine characterization. In addition, the SPDM Arm2 grasped the MBS port H-Fixture again and then the ground team characterized the SPDM Arm in all different directions and orientations at a certain force and moment to create loads on the SSRMS FMS sensor.
Water Storage System (WSS) Controller Communication Fault Status: After determining that the Secure Digital (SD) card that provides the operating system for WSS was corrupted based on testing on July 5, ground teams imaged the original WSS 8 Gigabyte (GB) SD Card with the WSS software and attempted to run a checksum. The checksum was not successful and resulted in an “input/output error.” Ground controllers then loaded a separate 32 GB SD card with the WSS software with the same result. To determine whether the software successfully loaded, the crew installed each SD card into WSS and the ground attempted to power on WSS. Each attempt was unsuccessful. Ground teams are working a forward plan.

