
SpX-15 Ingress and Cargo Operations:  This morning the crew ingressed Dragon and transferred the Center Stack. Once complete, they unpacked Double Coldbags, transferred a POLAR from Dragon to ISS, and retrieved and unpacked the Dragon Cargo Transfer Bag (CTB).  The crew completed today’s cargo operations by transferring the final cold stowage assets from the Dragon to ISS. 
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Ground specialists are currently preparing the MSS for upcoming SpaceX-15 external cargo operations. After relocating the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to the Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF)-1, controllers will conduct a Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Walkoff to the LAB PDGF prior to unstowing the SPDM. 
JAXA Low Temperature (LT) Protein Crystal Growth (PCG):  PCG samples were retrieved from the Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST) and the crew initiated the crystallization of the samples before inserting them back into the FROST, where crystallization will continue. The samples will remain in the FROST until they are returned on the SpaceX-15 Dragon vehicle for evaluation by ground teams. The goal of the JAXA LT PCG experiment is to produce high quality protein crystals in a microgravity environment at a low temperature.  
Space Technology and Advanced Research Systems (STaARS)-1:  The crew installed the STaARS-1 experiment facility today in preparation for upcoming STaARS BioScience-8 investigation operations.  The STaARS-1 facility supports biotechnology and life science investigations to characterize the effects of microgravity on living systems, targeting the molecular responses that alter cell physiology and lead to unique cellular processes and the production of novel compounds that can impact pharmaceutical, tissue engineering, regenerative medicine, biofuel, and discovery sciences. 
TangoLab:  The crew swapped cards, and the experiment cubes they contain, in the TangoLab-2 facilities today.  TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable general research facilities designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS.
NanoRacks Module-75 (ARISE) and 76 (PAPELL):  Today the crew installed NanoRacks Module-75 & -76 into the NanoRacks Platform-1.  ARISE investigates the collision behavior of small charged glass spheres. Collisions of particles plays a crucial role in planet formation, but the process is not well understood; millimeter-sized particles bounce off of each other while smaller particles stick. Recent experiments show collision of half-millimeter glass spheres results in tribocharging, or electrical charging of the particles, causing them to stick, and this research improves understanding of this phenomenon.  Pump Application using Pulsed Electromagnets for Liquid reLocation (PAPELL) examines the behavior of special magnetic fluid transport systems to determine how these systems perform in space. This magnetic fluid system uses magnets and fluids with suspended small iron-oxide particles (ferrofluids) to perform pumping and other transportation tasks that are particularly important in the design of next-generation space vehicles. PAPELL uses cameras and other automated equipment to monitor how ferrofluids travel across grids of electromagnets and through pipes when manipulated with an electromagnetic field under a range of different conditions.
Nanoracks Module-9: The crew retrieved NanoRacks Module-9 from SpX-15 today and activated experiment tubes. The experiments contained in these tubes support a variety of experiments sponsored by the Student Spaceflight Experiments Program (SSEP) National Center for Earth and Space Science Education (NCESSE).  The student-designed experiments address real challenges of living and working in space. The program is also a key initiative for US science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education, educating and inspiring the next generation of scientists and engineers to work on the space program. Findings from student experiments may contribute to future experiments that benefit the space program.  This set of NanoRacks Module-9 tubes supports the following experiments:

Effect of Microgravity on Nanoparticle Cellular Interaction
The efficacy of Ideonella sakaiensis in a Microgravity Environment
Grain Size and Distribution Analysis of Gallium in Microgravity
Effects of Crossbreeding Sordaria fimicola in Microgravity
The Effect of Ascorbic Acid on the Rate of Regeneration in Microgravity
Ca In Space
Planarian Worm Tail Regrowth
Growing Carrots on the International Space Station in Microgravity
Rust in Microgravity
The Effect of Microgravity on Tooth Decay
The Effect of Microgravity on the Growth of Golden Lake Artemia
Brine Shrimp
The effect microgravity has on the developmental stages of brine shrimp
Addition of “green plastic” to enhance cement properties in Space

Space Algae:  The crew installed Space Algae culture bags in the Veggie facility and set up Veggie light intensity and air flow parameters today.  Domesticating Algae for Sustainable Production of Feedstocks in Space (Space Algae) explores the genetic basis for productivity of algae cultivated in space and whether this requires genetic adaptations or not. Algae may perceive microgravity as an abiotic stress, which can trigger production of high value compounds. Investigators plan whole genome sequencing of the space-grown algal populations to identify genes related to growth in spaceflight and testing of algal composition for production of high value compounds. 
Rodent Research-7 (RR-7):  To support the RR-7 investigation the crew installed animal habitats into specified rack locations and configured the data and power cables.  Ground teams then conducted software checkouts on all the habitats. The RR-7 investigation examines how the space environment affects the community of microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract of mice (also known as the microbiota). It also looks at microgravity’s effects on multiple physiological systems known to be affected by the microbiota, including the gastrointestinal, immune, metabolic, circadian, and sleep systems. These studies help explain mechanisms underlying interactions between these systems and the role of the microbiota in these interactions.
Angiex Cancer Therapy:  Today the crew performed microscope operations for AngieX Cancer Therapy samples arriving on the SpaceX-15 Dragon vehicle.  The Payload Developer provided assistance via live high definition video.  The Angiex Cancer Therapy investigation examines whether endothelial cells cultured in microgravity represent a valid in vitro model to test effects of vascular-targeted agents on normal blood vessels. Angiex has developed a treatment that targets both tumor cells and vasculature, but needs a better model on which to test it. This study may facilitate development of a cost-effective method that does not require animal testing and which may help develop safer and more effective vascular-targeted drugs. 
MagVector 3D:  The crew exchanged a MagVector 3D sample today.  A total of 12 different samples will be processed on the ISS (1 per day).  ESA’s MagVector investigation supports a study of how Earth’s magnetic field interacts with an electrical conductor. Using extremely sensitive magnetic sensors placed around and above a conductor, researchers can gain insight into ways that the magnetic field influences how conductors work. This research is expected to help improve future ISS experiments and electrical experiments, and could also offer insights into how magnetic fields influence electrical conductors in general. 

