
Payloads:
International Commercial Experiment Cubes (ICE Cubes) Facility: In a continuation of the troubleshooting, the crew inserted a Solid-State Drive (SSD) into the system’s SSD slot. The ICE Cubes Facility is a capable experiment platform that offers flexibility to host many different experiments for research, technology demonstration or educational objectives. During flight, users are able to have near real-time telemetry and telecommanding capabilities with the Experiment Cube from any location with an internet connection. The ICE Cubes service provides fast and direct access to the ISS for any country, any institute, or any entity.
Repository: Samples were gathered in support of the Repository investigation. The NASA Biological Specimen Repository (Repository) is a storage bank that is used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. This repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions. Samples from the ISS are collected, processed, and archived during the preflight, in-flight and postflight phases of ISS missions. This investigation archives biosamples for use as a resource for future space flight related research.
Standard Measures: Questionnaires were filled out in support of the Standard Measures investigation. Spaceflight Standard Measures (Standard Measures) collects a set of core measurements related to many human spaceflight risks from astronauts before, during, and after long-duration missions. The aim is to ensure consistent capture of an optimized, minimal set of measures from crewmembers until the end of the ISS Program in order to characterize the adaptive responses to and risks of living in space. These measures populate a data repository to enable high-level monitoring of countermeasure effectiveness and meaningful interpretation of health and performance outcomes, and support future research on planetary missions.
Systems:
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cylinder Flywheel Assembly (CFWA) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today, the crew replaced both of the failed CFWAs, which had reached end-of-life, inside of ARED. ARED uses adjustable resistance piston-driven vacuum cylinders along with a flywheel system to simulate free-weight exercises in normal gravity.
Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Audit and Reorganization: Today, the crew performed an audit and reorganization of the Deck 3, Deck 4, and Starboard 4 location rack bays, pulling soon-to-be-needed items to the front of the bays. The PMM is primarily used for storage of spares, supplies, and waste on the ISS.
EDV Inspections: Today, due to the recent discovery of improperly treated EDVs from the MLM ASY, the crew inspected Russian EDVs for any off-nominal indications, including signs of leaks, air intrusions, or off-nominal pre-treat qualities. EDVs are intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. The crew did not identify any issues with the EDVs.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Airlock (A/L) Fastener Installation: Today, the crew replaced six missing captive fasteners in the A/L Aft 2 Closeout Panel. The Joint A/L module was launched and installed during shuttle flight STS-104/7A, and provides Extravehicular Activity (EVA) support capability for US Extravehicular Mobility Units (EMUs).
Network Monitoring System (NMS) Laptop Shell Swap: Today, the crew performed activities to replace the NMS Laptop shell with a stowed spare. They began by unstowing the new laptop and disconnecting USB devices, power, and ethernet from the existing ZBook laptop. Finally, the crew removed the primary and Ultrabay High Definition Drive (HDD), and then installed that same hardware into the new Zbook shell and connected power, data, and peripherals.
