
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): Today, the CFT crew continued with ongoing Fluid System Servicer (FSS) refills and assisted the ISS crew with various payload operations.
Payloads:
Cerebral Autoregulation: Cerebral Autoregulation hardware was gathered and setup in preparation for future data measurements. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction/Material Ignition and Suppression Test (CIR/SoFIE-MIST): The Manifold-2 High O2 bottle was replaced with a fresh bottle and the absorber cartridge was replaced.  More information on this experiment can be found here. 
ISS Ham Radio: The crew participated in an ISS Ham contact with Youth On the Air 2024, Mount Saint Vincent University, NS, Canada. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Kentucky Re-Entry Probe Experiment 2 (KREPE-2): The crew installed five sensor modules into position in the NG-20 spacecraft to measure re-entry data. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Surface Avatar: The crew performed a Surface Avatar session protocol. This experiment studies the control of a team of ground robots by an astronaut on the ISS using a force-feedback joystick. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Operations: Today, the crew performed a series of EVA operations as part of routine maintenance requirements.  Activities completed included a two-year Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) Checkout, Contingency Water Container – Iodinated (CWC-I) Degas, EVA Battery Autocycle operations, and EVA Metal Oxide (METOX) Regeneration operations.  The next USOS spacewalk is scheduled for July 29th.
SpaceX Crew Dragon Emergency Response Training: Today, the Endeavour crew reviewed the Free Flight Contingencies and Emergencies, Deorbit Entry and Landing Contingencies, Free-Flight Fire Response, Free-Flight Depress Response, and Emergency Departure Refresher training. The onboard reviews will ensure the crew’s training is current in the event of an emergency on the space station.
Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Fluid System Servicer (FSS) Setup and Refill of the JPM Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) and Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Accumulators: Today, the crew set up the FSS and refilled both the JPM MTL and LTL Accumulators. The ITCS provides equipment cooling and heat rejection through a combination of water loops and interface heat exchangers. The FSS is used to assist in the startup, maintenance, and repair of water lines and systems in racks on the ISS.
