
Payloads:
Airborne Particulate Monitor (APM): Science data from the APM memory card was transferred to a Station Support Computer (SSC) for subsequent downlink, and the display status was reported to the ground. Air quality in crewed spacecraft is important for keeping astronauts healthy and comfortable. Although requirements exist for maximum allowable concentrations of particulate matter, currently no measurement capability verifies whether these requirements are met. The APM demonstrates an instrument for measuring and quantifying the concentration of both small and large particles in spacecraft air. The data can be used to create a map of air quality in terms of particles and shed light on the sources of such particles.
Astrobee/Smartphone Video Guidance Sensor (SVGS): Following the installation of the SVGS LED targets, an SVGS science #2 session was performed. This is a continuation of a session performed two weeks ago. SVGS demonstrates the use of a photogrammetric vision-based technology for guidance, navigation, and control of a small spacecraft. Developed by NASA, the vision-based sensor computes the position and orientation vector of a target relative to a coordinate system attached to a camera in the host platform, in this case the ISS free-flying robot Astrobee. This demonstration consists of five maneuvers involving motion control and data capture for one, two, and three Astrobee robots.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): A manual fluid recovery and additional wick openings were performed in support of the second planting in XROOTS. The wick opening allows the seeds to be assessed for germination and gives them more room to grow. Several of the seed cartridges were reported to contain young plants. Over the next several weeks, the crew will observe and assist with the seed germination and growout of the plants. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Grip: The crew performed the second day of the experiment session. The Grip experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
Systems:
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Activities: The crew completed several EMU activities, beginning with identifying and restowing EVA hardware items in the Airlock followed by an EVA Snorkel audit to identify any snorkels without Velcro installed. The crew then performed a flush of the In-Flight Refill Unit (IRU) to flush the dedicated ‘Supply Only’ Red/Yellow (R/Y) Quick Disconnect (QD) adapters and internal IRU water lines with iodinated water from a Contingency Water Container – Iodinated (CWC-I). Lastly, an EMU Full Water Tank Dump and Fill was performed to purge gas buildup from EMU Water Tanks and add iodinated water as part of annual maintenance.
Temperature and Humidity Control (THC) Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Flow Measurement Survey: To support monitoring of the health of the ISS IMV system, a Velocicalc device was used to take measurements of air flow exiting outlets and entering inlets of the docked Dragon at PMA3. In addition to flow rate measurements, inspections of the outlets and inlets were performed.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Activities: Two IFM activities were completed by the crew. The first was to create a mount for iPads onto flexible brackets using a multi-use bracket and a book cover. The second activity was to remove the Node 1 Port Radial Port Closeout installed at the vestibule between the Node 1 Port and Node 3 Starboard, inspect for areas of fraying material, repair areas, and reinstall the Radial Port Closeout.
Regen Hydrogen Sensor Tech Demo Drift Check: A drift check was performed on the Oxygen Generator System (OGS) H2 Sensor. The crew installed the Drift Check Kit Assembly to the H2 Sensor Demo and performed a drift check of the Hydrogen sensors. The Drift Check Kit Assembly is removed after calibration is performed. The OGS H2 Sensor Tech Demo is a demonstration of new hydrogen sensors for the Advanced Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA). This technical demonstration is a new improved sensor suite being tested which monitors the same data as the sensor currently inside the OGS.
AC Dry Vacuum Cleaner Hose Inspection for Condition and Connection: The Nominal Operations Cleaning Only AC Dry Vacuum Cleaner current attached hoses as well as one spare were inspected for condition and connection between hose and vacuum cleaner body. The crew inspected and reported any tape, cracks, or other concerns and photo documented the hoses. The crew also reported on whether the tape provides sufficient suction or should be replaced, and tested the friction fit connection between the hose and body of the vacuum cleaner by doing a pull test.

