
Payloads:
Acoustic Diagnostics: The Acoustic Diagnostic instrument hardware was set up and calibrated, and measurements were recorded.  Following this, a questionnaire was filled out on the EveryWear device. The Acoustic Upgraded Diagnostics In-Orbit (Acoustic Diagnostics) investigation tests the hearing of ISS crew members before, during, and after flight. This study assesses the possible adverse effects of noise and the microgravity environment aboard the ISS on human hearing. The investigation compares the relationship between the detection of otoacoustic emissions – sounds naturally generated from within the inner ear – and hearing loss levels when exposed to noisy environments.
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): A visual inspection was performed of the CAL Moderate Temperature Loop (MTL) Jumper to check for leaks and report any observed leakage. The MTL Jumper has been susceptible to a small leak and periodic crew monitoring has been implemented while the ground assesses future remediation options. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
SpaceBorne Computer-2 (SBC-2): In an effort to resolve issues with the two SBC-2 computer systems, the crew exchanged the CPU cartridges for both of the SBC-2 experiment systems. Spaceborne Computer-2 High Performance Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Computer System on the ISS (SBC-2) builds upon the successes of Spaceborne Computer, exploring how COTS computer systems can advance exploration by processing data significantly faster in space with edge computing and artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities. SBC-2 further tests additional techniques for recovering or mitigating errors in the extreme environment of unprotected solar radiation, galactic cosmic radiation (GCR) and other events. Additionally, Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) works with the space community and the ISS-National Laboratory (ISS-NL) to test and demonstrate that current Earth-based data processing of ISS experimental data can be performed onboard during the anticipated 24-to-36-month mission of SBC-2.
Universal Intelligent Glass Optics (UNIGLO): Two exchanges with the repaired preforms were performed in preparation for subsequent sample runs. A preform is a cylindrical rod of raw material from which the glass fiber is pulled as it’s passed through the ring-shaped furnace. UNIGLO tests the effects of microgravity on a glass optics module capable of processing various types of complex glasses. The module uses artificial intelligence (AI) to help adapt materials processing techniques to the microgravity environment and a sensor based on laser-Doppler interferometry to measure the effects of microgravity on processing complex glasses for a variety of applications in space and on Earth.
Systems:
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Activities: The crew reorganized an Internal Wireless Instrumentation System (IWIS) Cargo Transfer Bag (CTB) , and then completed a Urine Transfer System (UTS) Offload EDV swap. The crew also performed an audit of all USOS food to accurately account for food on-orbit. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Maintenance: EMU maintenance activities began with a High Definition EMU Camera Assembly (HECA) restow inside a protective bubble wrap bag. The crew then checked out the Simplified Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) and Test Module seals, measured regulator pressure under flow and no-flow conditions, performed a leak check, and measured the relief valve crack and reseat pressure to satisfy two year on-orbit maintenance requirements. Essentially a “life jacket” for spacewalks, SAFER is a self-contained maneuvering unit that is worn like a backpack. The system relies on small jet thrusters to let an astronaut move around in space.
Water Transfer Station Setup: As part of a formal agreement with IP Russia, the crew gathered and set up Contingency Water Containers Iodine (CWCIs) in the Lab for transfer of USOS water to EDVs for the Russian Segment. EDVs are intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities.

