
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: FE-5 Wiseman conducted seven flame tests for the BASS-II investigation. Six of the samples were fabric and the seventh was an acrylic, spherical material. The BASS-II investigation examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The BASS-II experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Sprint Operations: Commander (CDR) Swanson completed his Flight Day (FD) 105 Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) protocol using the Blood Pressure (BP)/Electrocardiogram (ECG) hardware. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
European Space Agency (ESA) Education Payloads Operations (EPO): FE-6 Gerst completed a foaming water demonstration which was recorded and downlinked to the ground for education purposes.
Skin-B Sample Collection: Gerst conducted his third Skin-B data collection using the Tewameter probe to measure the skin barrier function; the Visioscan Camera to measure skin surface topography; and the Corneometer probe to measure skin hydration. The Skin-B experiment will improve understanding of skin aging which is slow on Earth but very much accelerated in space. This will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general. The data could help in determining impact on astronauts on future missions to the Moon and Mars for example where environmental conditions are more challenging.
Optical Payload for Lasercomm Science (OPALS) Operations: The OPALS ground team successfully downlinked a video file from the ISS to a ground station. During this test downlink, OPALS was at 25 degrees elevation above the horizon and the laser was modulated to 50 mega Hertz while changing the ground station beacon power profile. OPALS aims to demonstrate and test optical communications technologies from the ISS. This is accomplished by transferring video data from the OPALS hardware to a ground receiver at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory’s (JPL’s) Optical Communications Telescope Laboratory (OCTL).
Cygnus Offset Grapple On-Board Training: All 3 USOS crew members participated in this training today in preparation for Orb-2 arrival on July 15. Grapple approaches were practiced where the crew maneuvers the Latching End Effector (LEE) over the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) Flight Releasable Grapple Fixture (FRGF) pin and pulls the trigger when they enter the grapple envelope.  There were no commands loaded for the LEE during the triggering exercise, so there was no mechanism motion. For the last approach of the session, the crew practiced a hot backup Robotics Workstation System (RWS) transition from the Cupola RWS to the Lab RWS.  After the completion of the grapple practice, the Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to the Node 2 Nadir Active Common Berthing Mechanism (ABCM) Survey Position.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Rope Removed & Replaced (R&R): The crew successfully R&Rd the ARED exercise rope as part of nominal maintenance activities which is scheduled approximately every 80 days.

