ISS On-Orbit Status 07/04/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      U.S. Independence Day. 
 Saturday – off-duty day for CDR Gennady Padalka (Russia), FE-1 Michael Barratt (USA), FE-2 Koichi Wakata (Japan), FE-3 Roman Romanenko (Russia), FE-4 Robert Thirsk (Canada), FE-5 Frank DeWinne (Belgium).  
 
  The ISS crew is back on nominal wake/sleep cycle (2:00am – 5:30pm EDT).
 
  Upon wakeup, FE-1 Barratt, FE-4 Thirsk &amp; FE-5 DeWinne continued their current session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  The six-member crew performed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough station cleaning, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo.    ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
  As part of the house cleaning, Padalka &amp; Romanenko conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning on fan screens in the FGB (TsV2), DC1 (V3), and SM (VPkhO, VPrK, FS5, FS6 &amp; FS9), plus dust filter replacement in the FGB.
 
  Later, FE-3 Romanenko performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  At ~9:10am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-Houston and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners) via S-band/audio, reviewing the monthly calendar, upcoming activities, and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  After temporarily deactivating the ALTEA (Anomalous Long Term Effects on Astronauts) DOSI equipment and swinging it out of the way, FE-4 Thirsk worked on the OGS (Oxygen Generator System) in the Lab, first clearing access to the OGS rack by removing equipment from its right side, then configuring the OGS equipment for activation by the ground, including connecting the H<sub>2</sub> sensor’s oxygen QDs (Quick Disconnects).   [Afterwards, the equipment was replaced at its stowage location and ALTEA reactivated.]
 
  FE-5 DeWinne retrieved and stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies deployed by him on 7/2 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.    [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]
 
  FE-1 Barratt performed the periodic status check on the MERLIN (Microgravity Experiment Research Locker Incubator) Galley fridge, replacing the desiccants and looking for any internal condensation moisture.    [MERLIN is used for cold storage of crew food and drink.]
 
  Frank completed the periodic recharge of five power tool (Makita) batteries, to be used for ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) and NIFM (Non-Intrusive Flow Meter) operations.
 
  FE-2 Wakata performed the regular bi-monthly rebooting of the OCA Router and File Server SSC (Station Support Computer) laptops.
 
  Working off the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, CDR Padalka was to conduct another run for Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), RED resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5) and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-2, FE-3).      [The interim RED is being used in lieu of the ARED (Advanced RED) until the latter has had its damaged VIS (Vibration Isolation System) dashpot replaced and can be put back in service.]
 
  Later, Mike Barratt transferred the exercise data file to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 
