
Progress (70P) Launch/Dock: 70P launched from the Baiknour Cosmodrome today at 4:51pm CDT. Following a 2-orbit rendezvous profile, the vehicle will dock to ISS at 8:39pm CDT. 
SpX-15 External Cargo Status: Friday evening ground specialists used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to remove the empty Latching End Effector (LEE) Flight Support Equipment (FSE) from External Stowage Platform (ESP)-2 and extracted the Launch on Need (LON) LEE from the Dragon trunk and installed it at ESP-2. Yesterday, ground specialists used the SSRMS to stow the empty LEE FSE into the Dragon trunk. They then stowed the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) to the Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF)-1. 
Dragon Cargo Operations: Today the crew spent 4:55 unpacking and stowing cargo from the Dragon vehicle.  Specialists estimate 12:15 minutes remain to complete the first Dragon Cargo Message; cargo operations will continue throughout the remainder of the week.
AngieX Cancer Therapy:  Today the crew performed microscope operations for AngieX Cancer Therapy samples that arrived on the SpaceX-15. They then completed an operations session.  The AngieX Cancer Therapy investigation examines whether endothelial cells cultured in microgravity represent a valid in vitromodel to test effects of vascular-targeted agents on normal blood vessels. AngieX has developed a treatment that targets both tumor cells and vasculature, but needs a better model on which to test it. This study may facilitate development of a cost-effective method that does not require animal testing and which may help develop safer and more effective vascular-targeted drugs. 
Plant Habitat-1:  Today the crew performed readings with a Fluorpen and photographed the inside of the Growth Chamber. The planned 4-week harvest of theArabidopsis plants has been cancelled to allow for additional growth of the plants prior to the final harvest. The Plant Habitat-1 investigation compares differences in genetics, metabolism, photosynthesis, and gravity sensing between plants grown in space and on Earth.   
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS):  The crew transferred a MICS ampoule kit to the ISS Portable Glovebag, broke two ampoules in each sample bag and mixed the contents in the ampoules with a spatula. They then returned each sample bag to the kit bag, which was stowed for return. A total of eight MICS sessions are planned. The MICS investigation supports the evaluation of microstructure and material properties of benchmark cement samples.  Different responses to thermal and mechanical loading are expected and will be characterized in detail.  Positive attributes found in the hardening process due to the microgravity environment aboard the ISS will be reported with the intent of improving Earth-based cement and concrete processing. 
Atomization:  The crew replaced sample syringes for the Atomization investigation today. The Atomization experiment investigates the disintegration processes of a low-speed water jet for various jet issue conditions in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to validate the new atomization concept by observing the process using a high-speed camera. The knowledge gained can be applied to improve various engines utilizing spray combustion.
Aerosol Samplers: Today the crew had planned to install Active Aerosol Sampler (AAS) cartridges in Nodes 1 and 2 but there was an issue with the user interface that prevented their installation.  Ground teams are investigating. The battery-powered AASs actively pull in air and collect particles using the principal of thermophoresis. This is accomplished by flowing the sampled air through a large thermal gradient in a narrow channel.  During this process, particles are driven to the cold side of the channel, where an electron microscope (EM) grid is held in place by a tiny magnet. When returned to Earth, these grids are easily removed and placed directly in an EM for analysis.
Human Research Program (Biochemical Profile and Repository):  A 55S crewmember collected Flight Day (FD) 30 blood and urine samples for the Biochem Profile and Repository investigations.

The Biochemical Profile investigation tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results; which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Repository is a storage bank used to maintain biological specimens over extended periods of time and under well-controlled conditions. The repository supports scientific discovery that contributes to our fundamental knowledge in the area of human physiological changes and adaptation to a microgravity environment and provides unique opportunities to study longitudinal changes in human physiology spanning many missions.

Vision Testing:  Two crewmembers performed eye exams using the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Laptop and completed a vision questionnaire.  One crewmember, assisted by the Crew Medical Officer, conducted a tonometry exam.  Periodic eye exams are critical for monitoring crew health.

