
Radi-N2 Neutron Field Study (Radi-N2): Commander (CDR) Swanson deployed eight bubble detectors around the ISS for the Radi-N2 experiment. The objective of this investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment and define the risk posed to the crewmembers’ health and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future space flight.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: FE-5 Wiseman completed flame tests for the BASS-II investigation. Seven acrylic film samples were burned in air at various flow rates. Wiseman also burned a one-sided acrylic slab 4 mm thick. The BASS-II investigation examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The BASS-II experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
European Space Agency (ESA) Education Payloads Operations (EPO) Rosetta: FE-6 Gerst simulated the docking of the Rosetta mission scheduled to take place in November 2014. The mission consists of a lander called Philae docking to Comet 67P/Churyumov‐Gerasimenko. Philae will harpoon itself to the comet, take images, and retrieve samples for analysis. Gerst will demonstrate this mission on the ISS using a Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) satellite, a light object such as an earplug, and Velcro. This EPO will be recorded and downlinked for educational purposes.
Biochemical Profiles: FE-6 Gerst collected blood and urine for the Flight Day 30 Biochemical Profiles investigation. The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results, which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
On-board Training (OBT) Cygnus Robotics Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Session 2: In preparation for next week’s planned Orb-2 arrival, Swanson, Gerst and Wiseman performed the 2nd session of this OBT. They practiced Cygnus approach from 30 meter hold through capture. The OBT also provides the chance to practice coordination among crew members.
Joint Station LAN (JSL) Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Pressurized Module (JPM) 16-Port Ethernet Switch Install: Swanson installed a 16-Port Ethernet Switch in the JPM to expand support for ethernet devices such as the AVN443 High Definition (HD) encoder and XF305 camcorder hardware as well as additional SSC/CSL clients and payloads. Tomorrow he will deploy the HD Encoder and XF305 Camcorder in the JEM. 

