
78 Progress (78P) Docking: Following the completion of a 33-orbit rendezvous, 78P successfully docked to the MRM2 SM Zenith docking port last night at 8:00 PM CT. Prior to docking, MCC-H lost command capability to ISS. Therefore, the onboard crew performed the nominal commanding to ISS systems through 78P docking. The crew then performed leak checks, opened hatches, and began unloading cargo. 78P is the first Progress vehicle to complete docking to the MRM2 SM Zenith docking port. Nominal MCC-H command capability was restored following the 78P docking operations.
Payloads
Antimicrobial Coatings (AC) Stow: Following six months of exposure in the ISS cabin and periodic sample contact by the crew, the AC placard was packed for return. Boeing Environment Responding Antimicrobial Coatings (AC) tests is an antimicrobial coating on several different materials that represent high-touch surfaces. Some microbes change characteristics in microgravity, which could create new risks to crew health and spacecraft systems as well as create the possibility of contaminating other planetary bodies. The samples remain in space approximately six months then return to Earth for analysis.
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) / Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME): The crew performed the steps necessary to access the ACME combustion insert and reconfigured from Cool Flames Investigation with Gases (CFI-G) part 1 to CFI-G part 2. This involved replacing the igniter tip, replacing three ACME flow controllers, etc. Cool diffusion flames were discovered during droplet combustion experiments aboard the ISS in 2012. This initiated a rapidly growing field of combustion research. A cool flame is one that burns at about 600 degrees Celsius. A typical candle is about two times hotter, burning at around 1,400 degrees Celsius. Most internal combustion engines are designed using computer models that neglect cool flame chemistry, but ignition and flame propagation in engines depend on cool flame chemistry. Cool flame chemistry also has a significant impact on fuel octane and cetane numbers, whose understanding has large economic consequences.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4): The crew continued the science runs for InSPACE-4. Due to oscillation of the Field of View (FOV) in previous science runs, today the crew placed tape on a mirror which is the suspected cause of the motion. This appears to have resolved the issue. The crew was also asked to alter particle distribution within the sample vial to help resolve visible particle structures in the magnetic field. InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Microbial Tracking-3 (MT-3): The crew continued with the week-long sampling ops for MT-3, finishing up the last set of samples for this experiment session. The Quantifying Selection for Pathogenicity and Antibiotic Resistance in Bacteria and Fungi on the ISS – a Microbial Tracking Study (Microbial Tracking-3 or MT-3) investigation continues a series focused on ongoing monitoring of pathogenicity (ability to cause disease) and antibiotic resistance in potentially disease-causing bacteria and fungi present on the ISS. The investigation aims to identify, analyze, and characterize pathogenicity, antibiotic resistance, and genomics to augment the NASA GeneLab with the statistical confidence to characterize microbes associated with closed habitation and predict those that may pose a threat to crew health.
Phase II Real-time Protein Crystal Growth on Board the ISS (RTPCG-2): Following the successful completion of many different recipes for protein crystallization and subsequent microscope observations, the crew prepared the RTPCG-2 plates and packed them for return to the ground. RTPCG-2 demonstrates new methods for producing high-quality protein crystals in microgravity. Previous work has shown that microgravity can sometimes produce high-quality protein crystals that can be analyzed to identify possible targets for drugs to treat disease. RTPCG-2 tests high-quality proteins crystals for detailed analysis back on Earth.
Systems
Cargo Dragon Departure Preparations: The crew heavily focused on cargo transfer operations for SpX-22 in order to prepare the vehicle for undock. Today, the crew focused on packing the mid-tier section and swapped LiOH cartridges. SpX-22 undock is scheduled for July 6th to return cargo and payloads to the ground.

