
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides which isolate the rack and allow ground teams to conduct another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. Iso-octane was used for this test point. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Wiseman conducted six flame tests for the BASS-II investigation. This experiment examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. It will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Closeout: FE-6 Gerst disassembled the fluorescence microscope from the MSPR work volume in preparation for the Aquatic Habitat. More Aquatic Habitat hardware will be delivered on 56 Progress and Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 with fish specimens arriving on 40 Soyuz.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Maintenance: Swanson performed several maintenance tasks today to ensure that the WHC passes the appropriate ratio of pre-treat and water to the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA).  He began by replacing the Water Valve Block, Pressure Regulator, H2O Tank Full Pressure Sensor, H2O High Pressure Sensor, and associated hoses. He then inspected the bladder of the Flush Water Tank for signs of air and/or folds in the bladder that could be creating a resistance in the lines, preventing the Dose Pump from pulling fluid adequately. Finally, he performed a flush water tank fill.  The WHC remains configured to internal [ЕДВ-У].
Potential P4 Photovoltaic Radiator (PVR) Micrometeoroid/Orbital Debris (MMOD) Strike: A review of recently downlinked imagery found damage to the third panel of the P4 PVR, possibly due to an MMOD strike.  Additional imagery from ISS external cameras was captured today and is being analyzed by ground teams.  No indications of a leak have been observed. 

