
New Status:
Columbus (COL) Water Pump Assembly (WPA)-2 Remove & Replace (R&R) and Commissioning: On January 13, a Thermal Control System (TCS) WPA1 to WPA2 switchover activity was scheduled in support of Water On/Off Valve (WOOV) 1 & 2 periodic cycling. Troubleshooting was conducted but attempts to start WPA-2 were unsuccessful and COL has been operating on WPA-1 with no redundancy. Parmitano removed the faulty WPA-2 and replaced it with a new WPA delivered on ATV4. The newly-installed WPA was tested in a closed-loop configuration isolated from the Columbus ITCS loops and operated nominally. The crew reported difficulty installing acoustic insulation around the new WPA2 and were instructed to proceed with only the rear portion of the insulation installed. The new WPA2 is now integrated into the Columbus ITCS system and will be available as redundancy for WPA1 if needed after its commissioning is completed next week.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Crank Handle Repair and Replace: Following completion of the exercise rope remove and replace on July 2, the crew reported that the crank handle was loose and one of the four fasteners had drifted from its witness mark. The crew tightened the 4 screws but the handle was still loose. Engineering teams recreated the problem on the ground and developed a repair plan which Cassidy successfully performed earlier this morning. ARED is now available for crew exercise.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) Review: In preparation for next Tuesday’s EVA #22 robotics activities, FE-6 Nyberg set up the software and  conducted a DOUG review. Following this activity, she participated in a conference with ground teams.
Synchronized Position Hold Engage and Reorient Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Interact Experiment: Cassidy set up the work area to activate and check out the hardware and laptop computer. He then performed the 1st of 3 planned runs of the experiment followed by a conference with ground teams. Interact is an investigation developed by Supervision of Autonomous and Tele-operated Satellites (SATS) aimed at improving remote operation of space assets by enabling one user to control a team of multiple maneuvering satellites through a command and control user interface.
Countermeasures System (CMS) Periodic Fitness Evaluation (PFE): Cassidy and Parmitano performed their monthly PFEs with assistance from Nyberg as Crew Medical Officer (CMO). The evaluation is to monitor crewmembers’ overall fitness levels to ensure that cardiovascular and musculoskeletal health and performance is satisfactory. This is a graded exercise test on the Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS).

