
47 Soyuz (47S) Launch: 47S launched successfully at 8:36PM CDT from the Baikonur Cosmodrome with Expedition 48 crew members Anatoly Ivanishin, Takuya Onishi and Kate Rubins on board. Docking is scheduled Friday at 11:12PM CDT. With this crew’s arrival, the ISS will be in 6-crew operations until 46S return on September 6.
3D Printing in Zero-G Experiment Operations: The ground team remotely operated the 3D printer to produce three more 3D printed test coupons in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG), after which the crew removed and stowed them. The 3D Printing In Zero-G experiment demonstrates that a 3D printer works normally in space. A 3D printer extrudes streams of heated plastic, metal or other material, building layer on top of layer to create 3 dimensional objects. Testing a 3D printer using relatively low-temperature plastic feedstock on the ISS is the first step toward establishing an on-demand machine shop in space, a critical enabling component for deep-space crewed missions and in-space manufacturing.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): After retrieving the RaDI-N hardware from Russian crewmembers, the USOS crewmember deployed all 8 Space Bubble Detectors around the ISS for the Radi-N2 experiment. The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) RaDI-N investigation measures neutron radiation levels on the ISS. RaDI-N uses bubble detectors as neutron monitors which have been designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Gas Valve Open and Water Pump Tube Installation: In preparation for the arrival of the Plant Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) Regulation experiment on SpaceX-9, the EMCS gas valves were opened and three water pump tubes on each of the four Rotor Based Life Support System (RBLSS) modules were installed, for a total of twelve water pump tube installs. The EMCS is a European Space Agency (ESA) experiment facility that is dedicated to studying plant biology in a reduced gravity environment. It supports the cultivation, stimulation, and crew-assisted operation of biological experiments under controlled conditions (e.g. temperature, atmospheric composition, water supply, illumination, observation, and gravity). The facility has performed multi-generation (seed-to-seed) experiments and studies the effects of gravity and light on early development and growth, signal perception and transduction in plant tropisms.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Stowage Configuration: The crew relocated cargo that will be used frequently during SpX-9 docked ops from the Japanese Experiment Logistics Module-Pressurized Section (JLP) and JEM Pressurized Module (JPM). He also made room to stow cargo arriving on SpX-9 that is planned for frequent use.
Water Processing Assembly (WPA) Status: The WPA continues to experience faults of the Independent Shutdown Monitor (ISM) which causes WPA to isolate the potable water delivery system. The faults are due to increased delta pressure across the microbial check valve.  In addition, the Reactor Health Sensor conductivity has risen, causing the WPA to remain in Recycle and at higher risk for ISM faults.  Teams met and recommended to further reduce the process and low flow rates to lower the system pressure.  This can be accomplished by ground commanding only.  Reducing the flow rates would not prevent Independent Shutdown Monitor (ISM) faults, however, it will provide more margin and reduce the frequency of faults. 

