
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman conducted six flame tests for the BASS-II investigation. Clear and black rods were burned under the same conditions for comparison. The BASS-II investigation examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The BASS-II experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Maintenance: Commander (CDR) Swanson cleaned inside the CBEF micro-gravity and 1-gravity chambers. This is a periodic maintenance task for the CBEF.
Capillary Flow Experiment (CFE) Interior Corner Flow (ICF) Test: FE-6 Gerst set up hardware on the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) and then conducted ICF tests using the ICF8 hardware, which contains a segmented, 50 degree snow cone section. Gerst performed several drain tests with and without bubbles. CFE ICF studies capillary flow in interior corners of vessels with various geometries. Structured inside tanks providing interior corners are used in the design of fuel tanks to promote fuel flow to the outlet of the tank in the absence of gravity. Experimental results will provide the necessary boundary conditions as a function of container cross section and fill fraction. The benchmarked theory can be used to improve propellant management aboard spacecraft. 
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (KP) Sample Mixing: Wiseman mixed BCAT-KP samples 4 and 5 for a future BCAT-KP run in the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR). Wiseman noted that sample 5 had approximately 12-15 bubbles. BCAT-KP provides a platform for material and industrial scientists to investigate colloid phase changes, providing results that may be used to develop new colloidal materials and formulations with unique properties. The results may support new applications, from new liquid crystals to consumer goods having longer shelf life and uses.
Joint Station LAN (JSL) Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Pressurized Module (JPM) 16-Port Ethernet Switch Deploy: Yesterday Swanson installed a 16-Port Ethernet Switch in the JPM to expand support for ethernet devices such as the AVN443 High Definition (HD) encoder and XF305 camcorder hardware as well as additional Station Support Computer (SSC)/Crew Support Lan (CSL) clients and payloads. Today he deployed the HD Encoder and XF305 Camcorder in the JEM.   The voice and video checks with the ground will be performed tomorrow.
Node 2 (N2) Vestibule Fiber Optic Jumper Inspection: Swanson visually inspected jumper harnesses for damage and verified fiber optic jumper connectors are mated correctly in the N2 Starboard/Columbus Vestibule, N2 Port/JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) Vestibule and N2 Aft/LAB Vestibule. 

