
60 Progress (60P) Launch: 60P is scheduled to launch tonight at 11:55 PM CDT. Docking is planned for Sunday at 2:13 AM CDT following a 34-orbit rendezvous.
Human Research Facility (HRF)-2 Resupply: To prevent use of expired hardware and simplify future operations, Kelly performed consolidation and resupply of the HRF2 rack in the Columbus Module. To access the rack, he disconnected the Magvector Umbilical, then trashed expired hardware from the various kits.  He then restocked contents from the HRF Resupply kit.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Remove and Replace (R&R) Preparations: Kelly configured the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) Work Surface Area, reviewed the CIR MDCA hardware overview Just-In-Time Training (JIT) video, and gathered the required items in advance of tomorrow’s MDCA Igniter Tip and MDCA Fiber Arm replacements.  The igniter tip and fiber arm are required for the FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX-2J).  The FLEX-2J experiment studies the interactions of flames on the motion and ignition (or non-ignition) of millimeter-sized droplets. Results can provide fundamental insight into the physics of fuel burning, which improves computer models designed to reduce emissions and improve fuel consumption efficiency in space and on Earth.
Robonaut Software Load: Today, ground teams attempted to update the software on Robonaut’s three processors, sometimes referred to as the ‘brain stem’ by the Robonaut team.  Teams were able to get one of the three processors updated, and after multiple power cycles and several different lockup signatures, were not able to make any further progress.  The team is looking at how the Robonaut operations scheduled for Monday may need to change, including potential troubleshooting.  One step of the troubleshooting will likely be removing Robonaut’s chest plate to view the lights on the chest. Robonaut is a two-armed humanoid robot torso designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, work in high risk environments, and respond safely to unexpected obstacles. Robonaut is currently mounted inside the International Space Station (ISS); in the future, it will perform tasks both inside and outside the ISS. 

