ISS On-Orbit Status 07/03/10
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – crew rest day.
 
 Crew sleep cycle remains shifted to the right:  Wake – 7:00am (reg. 2:00am), Sleep – 10:30pm (reg. 5:30pm) EDT.
 
 Progress Update:   Progress M-06M/38P will make another rendezvous &amp; docking attempt tomorrow (7/4) for Contact at ~12:17pm EDT.    [During yesterday’s rendezvous, the automated KURS rendezvous sequence was aborted (cause currently under assessment) by the Progress MCS (Motion Control System) between two nominal burns (Impulse-4 &amp; Imp-5).  38P did not perform any abort burns since it was on a passively-safe flyby path from the outset (as per ballistic trajectory design).  The vehicle performed two burns last night (7/2), one at 4:28pm EDT (DO4) of 1.61 m/s delta-V, the other at 5:27pm (DO5) of 4.77 m/s.  A third maneuver is planned for today in order to set up the proper trajectory conditions for tomorrow’s docking attempt, for which ISS will be in the same configuration as for yesterday’s docking (same attitude, same solar array &amp; radiators positions).]
 
  At wake-up, FE-5 Yurchikhin performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-5 will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
  CDR Skvortsov began the day by attending to the current experiment session with the KPT-21 Plasma Crystal-3+ (Plazmennyi-Kristall/PK-3+) payload, activating the turbopump in the MRM2 “Poisk” module for keeping the vacuum chamber (EB) evacuated.  The turbopump will be deactivated again before sleeptime, at ~10:25pm EDT.    [Main objective of PK-3 is to study wave propagation and dispersion ratio in a dust plasma, i.e., fine particles charged and excited by HF (high frequency) radio power inside the evacuated work chamber, at a specified power of HF discharge, pressure, and a varied number of particles.]
 
  Also at wake-up, FE-4 Wheelock &amp; FE-6 Walker completed another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift.  The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
  FE-6 continued her early-morning session with the Pro K protocol, with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.      [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken during the day.]
 
  Additionally, Shannon closed out the 24-hr urine collections for her FD15 (Flight Day 15) Nutrition/Repository/Pro K protocol at ~8:00am and undertook the associated generic blood collection, with FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson assisting with the phlebotomy as operator.  Shannon then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).      [The operational products for Blood &amp; Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
  For her on-going first (FD15) Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment, Shannon observed the initial 10-min rest period before going about her business, changing Makita batteries several times.  Midpoint for the entire ICV run will be reached at ~4:55pm EDT tonight.     [The rest period involved relaxing &amp; breathing normally for 10 minutes under quiet, restful conditions.  ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres/BP to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist &amp; ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Shannon continued the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs (tonight at ~4:55pm), the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
  At ~9:25am, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
  FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.     [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  Later, Fyodor also performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM &amp; FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.
 
  On TsUP-Moscow Go, Mikhail Kornienko was to use pressurized O<sub>2</sub> from Progress 37P oxygen stores at ~3:25pm to refresh the ISS cabin for about an hour.
 
  FE-4 Doug Wheelock completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) laptops.
 
  Tracy &amp; Doug filled out their weekly FFQs (Food Frequency Questionnaires) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
  FE-3, FE-4 &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Mikhail at ~9:00am, Wheels at ~1:30pm &amp; Shannon at ~12:30pm EDT.
 
  Preparatory to tomorrow’s attitude maneuvering and Progress 38P docking attempt, Wheelock will close the external shutters of the Lab, Kibo &amp; Cupola windows as protection against thruster plume contamination shortly before sleeptime.
 
  The crew is working out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-5).    [T2 currently must undergo a snubber inspection between exercise sessions.]
 
 
