ISS On-Orbit Status 07/03/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   US Federal Holiday.
 
  Due to the Soyuz relocation, the crew today enjoys a short workday:  Wake – 12:25pm, sleep – 5:30pm EDT.  Tomorrow: back on normal cycle (2:00am – 5:30pm).
 
  CDR Gennady Padalka, FE-1 Mike Barratt &amp; FE-2 Koichi Wakata last evening successfully relocated the Soyuz TMA-14/18S spacecraft from the SM (Service Module) aft docking port to the DC-1 (Docking Compartment) nadir port.     [Undocking occurred on schedule at 5:29pm EDT, contact at 5:55pm and the Soyuz hooks closed at 6:05pm. DC hatches were opened at ~8:30pm.   All Soyuz vehicle system operated nominally, and there was no debris observed on the SM aft docking port after undocking.  Progress 34P is scheduled to dock to the SM aft docking port on 7/27.]
 
  Upon wakeup (~2:00am EDT), FE-1 Barratt, FE-4 Thirsk &amp; FE-5 DeWinne continued their current session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  CDR Padalka spent most of the (short) workday by airing (drying) out the three Orlan spacesuits and three pairs of Orlan gloves word yesterday aboard 18S.  The equipment was then restowed.
 
  FE-4 Thirsk performed the regular controlled shut-down of the EHS VOA (Environmental Health System-Volatile Organic Analyzer), with the ground power-cycling its RPC-3 (Remote Power Controller 3), part of RPCM (RPC Module) LAD42B_A.
 
  FE-3 Romanenko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
  In the US Airlock, FE-1 Barratt terminated the maintenance discharge of the #2037 EMU (Extravehicular Mobility Unit) battery in the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly).  This was the last of four batteries processed in the BSA BC3 (Battery Charger 3).    [Each discharge took approximately 23 hrs.]
 
  FE-1 Barratt filled out his regular weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).  It was Mike’s 13<sup>th</sup> FFQ session.    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
  Thirsk reduced cooling on the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) rack by demating the ITCS MTL (Internal Thermal Control System Moderate Temperature Loop) return umbilical at the rack’s UIP (Utility Interface Panel, loc. LAB1S4) to increase coolant flow for payload use.    [The hose had been mated by Frank on 6/21 to provide cooling to the rack.]
 
  At ~12:43pm, Koichi Wakata powered up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at ~12:48pm conducted a ham radio session with students at Baiting Hollow Scout Camp, Calverton, NY.   [Baiting Hollow Scout Camp is owned and operated by the Suffolk County Council of the Boy Scouts of America who have been serving scouting for over 81 years.  Located on the North Shore of Long Island, the camp has a freshwater lake and beachfront on the shore offering year round camping and programs to Boy Scouts, Cub scouts, Venturing Crews and their families.  The Camp offers swimming, sailing, boating, water skiing, climbing, shooting, sports, crafts, nature studies, scout craft and much more. This year’s theme is “The Final Frontier”.  The scouts will get first-hand experience with the space program through this event and hopefully, it will stimulate them to learn more about space travel, astronomy, and, of course, radio communications.  Members from the Eastern Long Island’s Peconic Amateur Radio Club will be assisting the scouts for this event.  Questions to Koichi were uplinked beforehand.  “How long have you been in space?”; “What kind of rocket did you fly on?”; “How do you go to the bathroom?”; “What kind of food do you eat in space?  Do you have Pizza?”; “How do you take a shower?”; “How do you tell day from night?”; “Where do you sleep?”; “What was your reaction when you first saw the earth from space?”; “What is the weirdest thing you ever saw in space?”; “How do you spend your free time in space?”]
 
  At ~3:05pm, the ISS crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-H via S-band/audio.    [S/G-2 (Space-to-Ground 2) phone patch via SSC (Station Support Computer).]
 
  Working off the Russian discretionary “time permitting” task list, Gennady conducted another run for Russia's Environmental Safety Agency (EKON), making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on earth using the Nikon D2X with the SIGMA 300-800mm telephoto lens.
 
  The crewmembers performed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program, at times of their own choice.
 
 
  No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today due to the short workday.
 
  CEO photography can be studied at this “Gateway” website:
 <a href="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/" title="http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov/">http://eol.jsc.nasa.gov</a>  (as of 9/1/08, this database contained 770,668 views of the Earth from space, with 324,812 from the ISS alone).
 
 

