
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): Today, the CFT crew assisted the ISS crew with a few payload activities and completed Onboard Training for Backup Flight Control Proficiency.
Payloads:
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): The ELF cartridge holder containing the latest melted sample was removed and replaced with a new sample holder and sample. The completed sample was stowed for return. More information on this current experiment can be found here.
ISS Ham Radio: The crew participated in an ISS Ham contact with Hokusetsu District Osaka Council Scout Association of Japan, Toyonaka, Japan. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Nano Particle Haloing Suspension: The Nano Particle Haloing Suspension hardware was installed into the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) facility. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Thigh Cuff: In support of the Thigh Cuff investigation, the crew performed ultrasound scans, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), and blood pressure measurements. More information on this investigation can be found here.
STEMonstration Earth Science Demonstration: An educational video was recorded explaining the basic structure and function of DNA and how scientific instruments on the International Space Station are used to study DNA in microgravity. More information on this experiment can be found here. [Completed 7/17/24]
Systems:
USOS Food Audit: Today, the crew continued an ongoing food audit of USOS food storage onboard the ISS.  It is important to keep an accurate account of all food available on-orbit.  This detailed inventory will be used to determine what food items will be provisioned on future Cargo visits to the ISS.
Power Tool Battery Charge: Eight of the 2.0 Amp-hour battery packs were gathered, recharged, and verified for full charge.  The batteries used for USOS on-orbit operations are standard -302 Nickel Metal Hydride (NiMH) batteries.  Power Tool batteries are used by the Driver Drill, Impact Driver, Soldering Iron, Fiberscope, and some payloads.
Safety Video Followup: The crew completed followup actions to remediate a pair of safety violations identified during the ISS Safety Video Survey.  The ISS Safety Video survey is a video of the interior volume that allows the ground team to assess the current vehicle configuration and identify areas of concern related to ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, emergency egress paths, access to fire ports, and safety equipment.  The video was recorded last Friday and is performed approximately every six months.
