
Cerebral Autoregulation: The crew gathered items and set up in preparation for experiment sessions on Thursday and Friday. As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. This investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space.
JAXA Education Payload Operation (EPO) Dry Run: In preparation for a late Increment 60 event with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) crew member, the JEM camera robot (ball camera) was set up and checked out.  The Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Internal Ball Camera is a free floating, remote-controlled panoramic camera that helps crews monitor operations in the JEM. Similar to current consumer-grade ball cameras, the JEM Internal Ball Camera is charged with a standard USB cable and provides real-time video and image downloads to remote operators. 
Radi-N2 Retrieval: The crew retrieved all 8 detectors and transferred them to the Russian Segment for processing. The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight. It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
Veg-04A Questionnaire: Following the successful harvest and crew consumption of the Mizuna leaves on Tuesday, the crew completed a questionnaire giving details of the activity.  The research of Veg-04A focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 28-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space.
Redundant United States Crewed Vehicle (USCV) Communications (RUC) Cable: The crew successfully installed and checked out the new RUC cable today.  RUC provides voice path redundancy during nominal and emergency USCV mission scenarios in the future. The new configuration converted the Shuttle era Docked Audio Interface Unit (DAIU) to a backup Russian Audio Interface Unit (RAIU) within the Audio Subsystem.
International Docking Adapter (IDA)3 Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for the IDA3 EVA which is planned no earlier than August 15, the crew assembled a boom and External High Definition Camera (EHDC). The crew also performed a checkout of the Node 2 Zenith IDA Control Panel during which they sent a series of commands to the panel and verified light statuses.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Audit: The crew completed the annual audit and inspection of the PEPs including the Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBA), Quick Don Mask (QDM), Pre-Breathe Mask, Extension Hose Tee Kit and QDM Harness maintenance. The audit and inspection ensures that each emergency provision is free of damage.

