
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): Today, the CFT crew performed Extravehicular (EVA) maintenance activities and assisted the ISS crew in various payload operations.
Payloads:
Genes in Space Molecular Operations and Sequencing (GiSMOS):  Wastewater was collected and DNA extraction was performed on the sample. More information on this experiment can be found here. 
ISS Ham Radio: The crew participated in an ISS Ham contact with Houjoudu Elementary School, Imizu, Japan. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Kentucky Re-Entry Probe Experiment 2 (KREPE-2): The five KREPE-2 modules were activated in preparation of NG-20 departure.  More information on this experiment can be found here.
Plant Habitat Facility: A crewmember closed Isolation Valve on CO2 Bottle S/N 203 has part of standard maintenance. More information on this facility can be found here.
Plasma Kristal-4 (PK-4): The crew disconnected the USB harddrive from the PK-4 unit and connected to the Columbus Network Monitoring and Administration Unit (CMAU) laptop. PK-4 looks at complex or “dusty” plasmas, in which small particles are suspended and form patterns in ionized gas.  More information on PK-4 can be found here.
Space Tissue Equivalent Dosimeter (SpaceTED): The crew removed the memory card from the SpaceTED, and transferred the science data to a Station Support Computer (SSC). More information on this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
NG-20 Closeout and Departure Preparation: The crew finished loading cargo into NG-20 for its upcoming departure planned for July 12th.  Afterwards, a checkout was performed to ensure all cargo was secured with either straps or friction fit.  After cargo closeout, final egress activities were completed, the Cygnus and Node 1 Nadir Hatches were closed, and NG-20 was prepped for departure.
EVA Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub and Checkout: Ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) was performed on EMUs 3003 and 3013 as well as Airlock (A/L) cooling water loops. Conductivity readings and a water sample were taken from the cooling loop following the 70-minute scrub. Finally, crew terminated, deconfigured, and checked out the EMUs. EMU loop scrubs are required preventative maintenance needed to remove any chemical and biological contaminants from the EMU cooling loop. The EMU is and independent anthropomorphic system that provides environmental protection, mobility, life support, and communications for the crewmember to perform an EVA in Earth orbit.
Common Gas Support Equipment (CGSE) Gas Bottle Unit Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Remove and Replace (R&R): The crew installed a new CO2 Gas Bottle into the CGSE located in the JEM.  The CGSE provides Argon (Ar), Helium (He), and CO2 to the Material and Life Science Experiments being conducted on the ISS.
