
Orbital-2 (Orb-2) Launch: Orb-2 launched successfully yesterday, achieved a nominal orbit and the solar array was successfully deployed.  Cygnus has executed several phasing burns to support rendezvous and grapple scheduled for Wednesday, July 16 at 5:39 am CDT followed by berthing to Node 2 (N2) Nadir.  The Orbital team is working through an issue with one of Cygnus Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System (TDRSS) radios, however, the redundant system is working without any issues.  Ingress is scheduled for Thursday, July 17.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman conducted flame tests for two black, 0.5 inch diameter acrylic rods for the first time. The BASS-II investigation examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE)-M-2 Sample Exchange: Commander (CDR) Swanson removed the ACE-M-2 sample from the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR), mixed it with a Binary Collodial Alloy Test (BCAT) magnet, and reinstalled the samples back into the FIR for ground analysis. In the ACE-M-2 investigation, a model colloidal system is used to observe the microscopic behavior of liquids and gases separating from each other, near the critical point, via a process called spinodal decomposition.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKam) Set Up: FE-2 Artemyev and Wiseman set up the Sally Ride EarthKam equipment in the Service Module (SM) window and activated the equipment. Sally Ride EarthKam is a NASA education program that enables thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, students control a special digital camera mounted onboard the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The team at Sally Ride EarthKAM then posts these photographs on the Internet for the public and participating classrooms around the world to view.
European Space Agency (ESA) Gyrotwist Education Payloads Operations (EPO): FE-6 Gerst completed an EPO demonstrating how a gyroscope works in micro-gravity. This EPO was recorded for educational purposes.
High Definition Earth Viewing (HDEV): On Wednesday, July 9th HDEV stopped downlinking science data packets. Ground teams put HDEV in standby mode while operational power was removed from the payload for ten minutes. Once operational power was reapplied to HDEV, science data packets were recovered and video has been restored to the USTREAM website. Ground teams are still investigating the cause of the science data packet interruption.
Pre-Breathe Hose Assembly (PHA) Bag Reconfiguration: In preparation for planned EVAs in August, Swanson reconfigured 2 PHA bags to have 90 feet of pre-breathe hose in each bag and 1 section of coiled 30 foot hose. This is to support of a new pre-breathe hose configuration which reduces the PHA Quick Disconnect (QD) kickload and reduces the length of the of the 120 foot hoses to 90 feet per crew request.
Water Recovery System (WRS): Swanson completed this regularly scheduled maintenance to Remove and Replace (R&R) the WRS recycle tank.
Potable Water Dispenser (PWD) Sample Collect: Gerst collected hot PWD water samples for in flight processing and Total Organic Compound Analyzer (TOCA) analysis and ambient samples for iodine analysis.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Inter-Module Velocity (IMV) Flow Measurement:  Gerst and Wiseman measured air velocity in the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM) overhead aft inlet, starboard aft inlet and starboard forward outlet using the Velocicalc instrument.

