
Payloads
NanoRacks External Cygnus CubeSat Deployer (NRCSD): The crew took imagery photos of the NRCSD-18 Deploys. Two satellites were deployed: DeMi (Deformable Mirror) and TechEdSat-10 (Technology Educational Satellite-10). The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer is a stackable, modular, ground loaded launch case.  Each NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer accommodates up to eight launch cases and are stacked for each JEM Airlock opening. The NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer meets the growing demand to deploy CubeSat format satellites from the International Space Station for a variety of customers.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The crew performed the setup and activation of the EarthKam hardware in the Node 1 Nadir Hatch window. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Urine Transfer System (UTS): The crew performed leak checks as part of the UTS installation. The crew reported no leaks. The UTS is part of a new toilet system that will serve as both a technology demonstration, and a capability to support additional crew members on the ISS.  The UTS is used to collect pre-treated urine and connects to the ISS Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) for recycling. The UTS allows operation of both the existing Russian Toilet (ACY) located in the WHC rack and the new Toilet. The UTS consists of valves and controllers which open and close depending on the priority flow path from either the Toilet or WHC. Each toilet can deliver pretreated urine to the UPA or a Russian urine tank (EDV-Y).
Mochii: The crew performed troubleshooting steps of the Mochii Microscope by monitoring and reporting the LED status while the unit was powered up. Mochii is a miniature scanning electron microscope (SEM) with spectroscopy to conduct real-time, on-site imaging and compositional measurements of particles on the International Space Station (ISS). Such particles can cause vehicle and equipment malfunctions and threaten crew health, but currently, samples must be returned to Earth for analysis, leaving crew and vehicle at risk. Mochii also provides a powerful new analysis platform to support novel microgravity science and engineering.
Systems
Channel 3B Battery Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparation: The crew continued preparations for the upcoming battery upgrade EVAs by completing several prep tasks including battery charging ops, procedure reviews and a crew conference.  The first of two EVAs to replace the aged nickel hydrogen batteries with lithium ion batteries on Channel 3B is scheduled for Thursday, July 16th.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: Crew performed an analysis of the water processing assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis. The crew also replaced the TOCA Waste Water Bag (WWB) to preclude overfill.
H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)9 Cargo Operations: The crew continued to perform HTV9 cargo transfer operations. Ground teams estimate approximately 2.5 hours remain to complete available cargo ops. Total cargo ops time remaining will become better defined as additional disposal chits are processed.
Compound Specific Analyzer: Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Maintenance: The crew completed this routine maintenance to zero calibrate and replace battery packs in all six units. The CSA-CPs are used by the crew to detect evidence of fire and/or a hazardous environment. Maintenance on the CSA-CPs is performed every 60 days.
On-Orbit Hearing Assessment (O-OHA): Today the crew performed an auditory test as a mid-mission assessment conducted during their stay on the ISS. The assessment measures hearing function while crewmembers are exposed to noise and microgravity during long-duration spaceflight.  The exam is performed in conjunction with the crew-worn acoustic monitor surveys also performed today.

