
Saibo Experiment Rack Clean Bench (CB) Checkout: The crew completed the yearly relief valve check of the CB in the JAXA Saibo Rack. Saibo includes a Clean Bench glovebox with microscope that isolates the organisms being studied, and Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) that includes incubator and centrifuges.
Hermes Facility: The crew installed the HERMES facility and Space Acceleration Measurement System (SAMS) tri-axial sensor heads (TSH). Hermes is an experimental microgravity facility that enables science experiments, microgravity exposure testing, testing of engineering components, testing of CubeSats, concept trials, and any payloads that fit within the Hermes design and operations constraints. It is open to any investigation that benefits from microgravity exposure.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR)/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) /Flame Design: The crew replaced the igniter tip which burned out this week to complete the final Flame Design runs. The investigation studies the production and control of soot to optimize oxygen-enriched combustion and the design of robust, soot-free flames. Soot can adversely affect efficiency, emissions, and equipment lifetime, so this may lead to more efficient and cleaner burner designs. The experiment is conducted with spherical flames of gaseous fuels in the CIR as part of the ACME project.
Photobioreactor (PBR): The crew performed troubleshooting for the Photobioreactor by powering up the unit from a different locker power port. Today the life support systems that sustain astronauts in space are based on physicochemical processes. The Photobioreactor investigation aims at demonstrating that microalgae (i.e. biological processes) can be used together with existing systems to improve recycling of resources, creating a hybrid life support system. This hybrid approach could be helpful in future long-duration exploration missions, as it could reduce the amount of consumables required from Earth, and will first be tested in space on the ISS.
Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) Laptop Relocation: The AMS laptop was located in Columbus Express Rack (ER)1 where the Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (PEHG) will be upgraded to an improved PEHG. The laptop must remain continuously powered to retain collected data. Today the crew relocated the laptop to Columbus ER3 which will provide continuous power.

