
Payloads
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) – Fluids and Combustion Facility: The crew exchanged the manifold #4 bottle with a bottle containing 100% C2H6. The CIR includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel, and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity.
ESA-Education Payload Operations (EPO) Mission X Video: The crew recorded a video that supports an updated physical education activity in the Mission X: Train like an astronaut programme. The activities related to ESA-EPO Generic Videos are intended to encourage and strengthen the teaching of science curriculum and stimulate the curiosity of students to motivate them towards further study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects.
Exploration Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) – Toilet: The crew removed and replaced the Toilet separator pretreated urine hose and performed a system leak check. The Toilet System is an Exploration Technology Demonstration that has evolved into a permanent United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) system. The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS). The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for USOS for up to 90 crew days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC)/Toilet operations.
Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR): The crew replaced a Fluids and Combustion Facility (FCF) hard drive in the FIR Avionics Package. The FIR is a complementary fluid physics research facility designed to host investigations in areas such as colloids, gels, bubbles, wetting and capillary action, and phase changes, including boiling and condensation.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4): The crew distributed particles within the sample vial and initiated experiment runs. InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
JAXA EPO: The crew recorded an event to support the One Piece collaboration project to be used in a future Kibo Space Studio broadcast and made a backup recording for the Paralympic Torch Relay. JAXA EPO includes conducting cultural activities such as writing reports about and filming video of activities aboard the ISS. These tools can help inform the public about the importance of the ISS, JAXA’s Kibo module, and human spaceflight.
Space Studio Kibo: The crew pre-recorded an event to be used in The Space Frontier Studio Kibo which will aired on September 3rd, 2021. The Space Frontier Studio Kibo is a broadcasting studio that is constructed and operated in the JEM, also known as Kibo. The studio can livestream activities, interactive entertainment, and communication from space. The program can receive uplinked video and audio from a ground studio to Space Frontier Studio Kibo, and downlink video and audio from space to ground.
Systems
Crew Dragon Port Relocation Preparations: The crew completed several activities in preparation for the upcoming Endeavour Dragon port relocation. The crew completed in a Crew Dragon port relocation simulation On-Board Training (OBT) and then participated in a conference with key ground team members. Finally, the crew cleaned the Crew Dragon soft capture system and downlinked photos so that ground teams can confirm the system is in a nominal configuration. Endeavour is scheduled to relocate from the Node 2 Forward International Docking Adapter (IDA) to the Node 2 Zenith IDA on Wednesday, July 21st. This relocation will clear the Node 2 Forward IDA for OFT-2 docking planned for Saturday, July 31st.
Hatch Seal Inspections: As part of routine maintenance, the crew cleaned and inspected a subset of the USOS common hatches for Foreign Object Debris (FOD) or damage. Today’s inspections were performed for the JPM Zenith, JLP, Node 3 Starboard/Nadir/Forward, PMM, Airlock (IV and Port) hatches.
Portable Workstation 1 (PWS1) Troubleshooting: The crew performed troubleshooting of the failed PWS1. To recover the hardware, the crew reinstalled the PWS software and reactivated PWS1. The primary function of the PWS is to support the execution of scripts required to maintain the Mass Memory Unit (MMU) MK II functionality, e.g. double Error Detection and Correction (EDAC) counter reset.
Crew Communication Headset Assembly (CCHA) Troubleshooting: The crew performed troubleshooting on the CCHA which had failed Voice-Activated Communication (VOX) when it was connected to the Node 2 Audio Terminal Unit 1 (ATU-1) earlier this year. Upon activation of the CCHA today, the crew confirmed that the hardware was performing nominally and was unable to determine which component caused the anomaly. The CCHA is the interface between the crew member and the ISS internal audio system and provides the crew with the capability to transmit and receive voice.

