
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR): The crew performed the Florescence Microscope setup and inserted a test sample in preparation for upcoming Space Moss activities following SpX-18 arrival. The MSPR is a multipurpose payload rack system used in the JEM. It has two workspaces and a worktable that can be used for wide fields of space environment utilization including science and educational missions.
Muscle Tone in Space (Myotones): The crew completed skin markings measurements to support the Myotones experiment. Myotones investigation observes the biochemical properties of muscles during long-term exposure to the spaceflight environment. Results from this investigation are expected to provide insight into principles of human resting muscle tone, which could lead to the development of new strategies for alternative treatments for rehabilitation both on Earth and for future space missions.
Rodent Research-17 (RR-17): The crew stowed Rodent Habitats 2, 3, and 4. RR-17 uses younger and older mice as model organisms to evaluate the physiological, cellular and molecular effects of the spaceflight environment. Some responses to spaceflight in humans and model organisms such as mice resemble accelerated aging. This investigation provides a better understanding of aging-related immune, bone, and muscle disease processes, which may lead to new therapies for use in space and on Earth.
Veg-04A: Veggie facilities 1 and 2 were relocated from Express Rack (ER) 3 to ER 9B. Veg-04A, Veg-04B, and Veg-05 investigation is a phased research project to address the need for a continuous fresh-food production system in space. A healthy, nutritious diet is essential for long-duration exploration missions, which means that the typical pre-packaged astronaut diet needs to be supplemented by fresh foods during flight. Veggie has begun testing onboard the ISS to help meet this need, and validation tests have demonstrated that leafy greens can be grown in spaceflight. The research of Veg-04A focuses on the impact of light quality and fertilizer on leafy crop growth for a 28-day grow-out, microbial food safety, nutritional value, taste acceptability by the crew, and the overall behavioral health benefits of having plants and fresh food in space. 
Joint Station Local Area Network (JSL LAN) Version 12.0 Deployment: This afternoon, ground teams will load JSL Version 12.0 onboard ISS. This version of JSL will update IT security, incorporate manual changes since JSL 11.1, update new infrastructure to accommodate the subnet for External High Definition Cameras (EHDC) and High Definition EVA Camera Assemblies (HECA). Tomorrow Office 365 will be loaded onto the Station Support Computers (SSCs) in preparation for the Soyuz 59 crew arrival. The remaining ISS SSCs will be loaded with Office 365 next week.

