
New Status:
34 Soyuz Emergency Drill: CDR Vinogradov, FE-2 Misurkin, and FE-3 Cassidy participated in Soyuz Descent emergency drill covering the following procedures:

Crew responsibilities within the Soyuz
Descent operations
Communication
Soyuz activation
Hatch operations and leak checks
Suit donning and suit leak checks
Descent Module (CA) and Orbital Module (БО) hatch closure and leak checks
Descent timeline and procedure, and post landing activities.

Following the drill, the crew performed a conference with specialists to review the training content.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Loop Scrub: FE-5 Parmitano completed a nominal EMU loop scrub of suits 3005 and 3010.  He initiated an ionic and particulate scrubbing and an iodination of the EMUs and Airlock cooling water loops.  These EMUs would be utilized if another USOS EVA was required. Following these tasks, Parmitano stowed the suits in the Crew Lock. EMUs 3011 (Parmitano’s suit that experienced the water leak) and 3015 (experienced off-nominal water temperature sensor trending during EVA 18 in 2012) will be installed on the EMU Don/Doff Assemblies (EDDAs) for potential loop scrubs next week.
Oxygen Generation System (OGS) Hydrogen (H2) Sensor Remove and Replace (R&R): FE-6 Nyberg successfully performed an R&R of the OGS H2 sensor using the H2 Sensor On-orbit Replacement Units (ORU) Purge Adapter (HOPA). While she was working in the OGS rack, she also cleaned and inspected the Avionics Air Assembly (AAA) fan and the Sabatier Filter F-2511. As expected, the Fan Inlet Filter was significantly blocked with lint and the Inlet Manifold Block Screen was partially blocked.  Both were cleaned and reinstalled. Nyberg was unable to install the Sabatier Check Valve. The stiffness of the hoses and the inability to rotate the hose assembly around the front plate did not allow the new hardware to fit in the available space in the rack.  It appears that the hose is trapped behind the plate on the front of the assembly and there was a fear the hose would kink if they tried to force the hose to bend around it. The system was returned to the previous configuration without the check valve. The Sabatier team will re-assess the installation volume constraints.
ISS Video Survey: Parmitano completed an ISS Video survey during which he captured video of the Station internal volume in its entirety, panning over each rack and module. This provides a general overview specifically noting drag-throughs, stowage, and IVA hazard control verification, The video will be downlinked and reviewed by Safety specialists.
Joint Station Local Area Network (LAN) (JSL) 4.0 Software Upgrade: Thursday evening, ground controllers uplinked a software upgrade to the JSL. The upgrade configures the LAB and Node 2 Integrated Station LAN (ISL) routers to support several upcoming operations, including the use of Ku-band forward link for JAXA Admin PC, live email synchronization and instant messaging for the OpsLAN, and the downlink of data from SpaceX-3 via the JSL.

