
SpaceX-25 (SpX-25) Docking: The SpaceX-25 Cargo Dragon spacecraft docked with the ISS on Saturday at 11:21 AM CT. Since its launch on Thursday evening, the spacecraft successfully performed a series of maneuvers and docked to the Node 2 (Harmony Module) forward docking port of the ISS.
Payloads:
European Physiology Module (EPM): EPM FCC troubleshooting was performed by reformatting the Mass Memory Unit and using the Test Link and software commanding to transfer files via the Hyper-Terminal. EPM is designed to investigate the effects of short- and long-duration spaceflight on the human body. It includes equipment for neuroscientific, cardiovascular, and physiological studies.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): Hardware was gathered in preparation for Fiber Optic Production 2.0 operations. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN. Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest that ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth. Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
Rodent Research-22 (RR-22): Rodent Habitats were set up and Rodent Transporters 1 and 2 were transferred from SpX-25 Dragon into the US Lab. Effects of Spaceflight on Tissue Regeneration (RR-22) investigates the effects of spaceflight on systemic and local responses of skin healing using mice as a model organism. Researchers use multiple genetic and biological assessments to define the underlying biological changes and identify those that affect tissue regeneration, which could provide therapeutic targets for improved treatments.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): Fluid from Root Modules was recirculated back into Fluids Reservoir and the wicks were examined and opened when required. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) ESA Preparations: Crewmember Samantha Cristoforetti continued preparation activities for the upcoming RS EVA ESA, beginning with a review of the depress procedure for exiting MRM2. A familiarization activity was completed for translation ways and ESA EVA work zones using Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG). The Russian EVA is planned for Thursday, July 21.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Water Container (ЕДВ-У) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew R&Red the existing ЕДВ-У in the WHC. The ЕДВ-У is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. The crew also swapped the EDV in the offload EDV spot of the Urine Transfer System (UTS).
Countermeasures Systems (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Maintenance: The crew completed 6-month routine ARED maintenance tasks including re-torqueing the crank handle socket head cap screw and inspecting the heel raise pin and mechanism. ARED helps the astronauts maintain muscle strength and mass by incorporating adjustable resistance piston-driven vacuum cylinders along with a flywheel system to simulate free-weight exercises in normal gravity.

