
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): Today, the CFT crew assisted the ISS crew by performing a USOS food audit and continuing to complete different payload activities.
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR): Fuel Oxidizer Management Assembly (FOMA) Calibration was performed. The upper rack doors were opened, the bottle valves were closed, the pressure in the manifolds was relieved, and then the upper rack doors were reclosed. The CIR rack will be powered to collect pressure transducer data with the bottle pressure transducers at ambient pressure and then the rack will be powered down. More about this facility can be found here.
European Drawer Rack-2 (EDR-2): The laptop was uploaded with new software and the crew performed a checkout. More about this facility can be found here.
Plant Water Management 5 and 6: The crew performed hardware gather and setup in preparation for this week’s operations. More about this experiment can be found here.
Space Fibers-3: The crew performed a hardware audit on the Space Fibers-3 experiment equipment and the sample preforms. More about this experiment can be found here.
Systems:
USOS Food Audit: Today, the crew continued an ongoing food audit of USOS food storage onboard the ISS.  It is important to keep an accurate account of all food available on-orbit.  This detailed inventory will be used to determine what food items will be provisioned on future Cargo visits to the ISS.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Service and Cooling Umbilical (SCU) Checkout and water (H2O) recharge: The newly installed SCU was activated and checked ou. The crew also refilled the EMU feedwater tanks with water after being used to charge the SCU cooling lines.
Compound Specific Analyzer – Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Maintenance: Today, the crew replaced the battery packs in all CSA-CPs and calibrated the units. The CSA-CPs provide real-time readings following a combustion event and subsequent clean-up efforts. The CSA-CPs are also used for continuous monitoring of carbon monoxide levels in the ISS.
