
Mouse Epigenetics Setup Operations: The crew continued setting up for the Mouse Epigenetics experiment by refilling the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit with water, configuring the Glove Box, and gathering supplies to prepare for the investigation arriving on SpaceX-9. The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space, and also examines changes in the DNA of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space.
Gecko Gripper Setup and Operations: The crew attached the Gecko Gripper to various locations in the U.S. Lab to test a gecko-adhesive gripping device that can stick on command in the harsh environment of space. The technology promises to enable many new capabilities, including robotic crawlers that could walk along spacecraft exteriors; grippers that use a touch-to-stick method to catch and release objects; and sensor mounts that can work on any surface and be reused multiple times.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the International Space Station. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need. 
Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of the 47S crew and return to 6-crew operations, all crew members participated in this activity. Topics covered included crew accountability, escape vehicle readiness, ISS Commander responsibilities and use of the emergency response flow chart. Priorities in an emergency are safety of crew and safe configuration of the ISS.
On Board Training (OBT) Dragon Offset Grapple: In preparation for SpX-9 capture currently scheduled for July 20, the crew practiced grapple approaches. On the last approach of the session, the ground sent a safing command for the crew to practice a hot backup transition. Particular attention was given to managing volumetric constraints in the Cupola as well as lighting on the grapple fixture and how it changes.  After the OBT session, ground controllers maneuvered the SSRMS into position to be ready for next week’s SpX-9 rendezvous and capture.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pump Separator:  Today, the WHC “Check separator” light illuminated, indicating an anomaly in the WHC system.  A power cycle of the WHC recovered operability. 
S31A A CETA Light Reclose Test  – On May 11th the RPCM (RPCM S31A_A RPC 3) powering the S3-1 CETA Luminaire tripped and the DDCU 50Hz latched data indicated a real overcurrent event.  Today an attempt was made to reclose the RPC to verify the failure signature.  RPC tripped upon first attempt with same over current signature.   The go forward plan is to request R&R of the CETA luminaire. 

