
Orbital-2 (Orb-2) Launch: Launch is currently scheduled for Sunday, July 13 at 11:52 am CDT. Grapple is scheduled for Wednesday, July 16 at 5:37 am CDT followed by berthing to Node 2 (N2) Nadir.  Ingress is scheudled for Thursday, July 17.
Force Shoes: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman performed Treadmill 2 (T2) exercise using the Force Shoes, which will measure exercise loads experienced during T2 exercise. Ground teams will analyze the loads data and compare it with the data from T2 to calibrate the Force Shoes. Once the data is calibrated, the crew will conduct four sessions of Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) exercise with the Force Shoes to characterize the loads between the crew member and ARED.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Wiseman conducted 5 thick slab tests for the BASS-II investigation which examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
European Space Agency (ESA) Education Payloads Operations (EPO) Flying Classroom: FE-6 Gerst demonstrated the difference between vacuum and microgravity using a helicopter made out of paper and a pencil, as well as a paper airplane. The EPO will be recorded and downlinked for educational purposes.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Tether Inspections:  Commander (CDR) Swanson inspected tethers in preparation for USOS EVAs currently scheduled for August 21st and 29th.
Waste Water Filter Removal and Replacement:  Swanson replaced an expended waste water filter in the Water Processor Assembly (WPA).  This filter is located between the pump/separator Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) and the waste water ORU.  During the replacement, a valve issue was experienced when the WPA was shutdown.  Ground teams believe the issue response was due to the removal of the Mostly Liquid Separator (MLS) check valve that occurred in January of this year.  The teams may need to revise the WPA shutdown procedures in the future based on this new signature.  The team is proceeding with the nominal standby heat up in preparation for completing a reprocess cycle overnight. 
Reboost:  A 61 second .95 meter per second reboost was performed today which provides proper phasing for the 56 Progress 4-orbit rendezvous profile. It also provides margin for a series of low concern conjunctions over the weekend and simplifies operations for Orb-2 rendezvous.

