
Late Notice Conjunction: The Flight Control Team was notified of a late notice, red conjunction early this morning with insufficient time to execute a Predetermined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM). The ISS crew was directed to take steps to safe the ISS and shelter in place in the Soyuz. The conjunction passed without incident and the crew re-ingressed the ISS.
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Operations: The final 4 CubeSats were successfully deployed overnight. Kelly coordinated with ground teams who used the Japanese Experiment Module Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) to return the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) containing the NRCSD #5  to the JEMAL slide table. The slide table was retracted, bringing the MPEP inside the JEMAL.  Kelly will configure the JEMAL and monitor NRCSDs in preparation for A/L depress next week.  
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, and Reorient Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Slosh:
Kelly reviewed on board training (OBT) materials on general SPHERES operation and procedures specific to SPHERES Slosh. He also stowed charged batteries and installed other batteries for charging for the upcoming SPHERES Slosh session scheduled for Friday. The SPHERES Slosh investigation uses small robotic satellites to examine how liquids move around inside containers in microgravity. A water bottle’s contents slosh around differently in space than on Earth, but the physics of liquid motion in microgravity are not well understood, which affects computer simulations of liquid rocket fuel behavior. Middle school and high school students control the SPHERES to study how liquids behave inside containers in space, which increases the safety and efficiency of future rockets. 

Resistance to Radiation; Ras Labs-CASIS-ISS Project for Synthetic Muscle: Resistance to Radiation (Synthetic Muscle):  Kelly took the 4th data set of historical photos documenting the synthetic muscle samples. Crew transferred photos to an SSC for photo downlink. The purpose of this experiment is to perform radiation testing of synthetic muscle to determine how radiation-hardened the proprietary materials are, for dual use on earth and in space, in extremely challenging environments. Both the preliminary radiation testing at PPPL/Princeton and the exposure to solar and cosmic radiation on the ISS determine radiation resistance of synthetic muscle and provide projections for radiation resistance in high radiation environments. Robotics made of synthetic muscle will be able to help humans on earth, mitigating and correcting dire situations in extremely challenging environments. Robots made of these materials will be able to assist humans in space and be able to survive deep space travel. A follow up external platform experiment is being planned.
Sleep ISS-12: Kelly and Kornienko are performing their week of sleep logging. Within fifteen minutes of wakeup, the crew answers questions from the SleepLog application on the Station Support Computer (SSC).  The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity, and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness, to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the International Space Station (ISS).
Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA): Due to the crew shelter in place, N3 CDRA maintenance scheduled for today has been postponed to Monday 7/20/15.  This includes the Air Selector Valve (ASV) 104 removal and replacement (R&R) and N3 CDRA leak check. The Lab CDRA is currently operating, and as of this writing ppCO2 is 1.6 mmHg.

