ISS On-Orbit Status 07/18/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      Sunday – crew rest day.   Ahead: Week 7 of Increment 24.
 
 Upon wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson continued her support of the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment), powering up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starting data flow, with POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center) routing the on-board HRDL (High Rate Data Link) equipment and monitoring via HD video.  About 3 hrs later, Tracy shut the experiment down again.    [CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  ICF is one of three CFE experiments, the others being Vane Gap (VG) and Contact Line (CL).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]
 
 FE-6 Shannon Walker concluded her second ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring session, doffing the two Actiwatches and HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) about 24 hrs after the end of yesterday’s “midpoint” activity (~11:35am EDT).  Later, she downloaded the data from all devices to the HRF (Human Research Function) PC1 laptop.     [For the ICV Ambulatory Monitoring session, during the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres/BP is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours, with the Makita batteries switched as required.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.]
 
 CDR Skvortsov completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].
 
 Alex also performed the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.
 
 An additional task for Sasha in the SM was the routine weekly inspection of the SVO SRV-K2M (Condensate Water Processor) hoses from the MF-R Diaphragm Separator Filter to the BRPK Condensate Separation &amp; Pumping Unit.
 
 FE-3 Kornienko initiated battery charging for the KPT-2 Piren instrument for another run.      [Piren-B, a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, is part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Besides Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
 After charging the battery of the photo/video system of the GFI-8 Uragan (hurricane) earth-imaging program, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted an observation session with the payload from SM window #9, taking pictures of the GFI-8 test site at the Lake Baikal south waters area.  Kornienko meanwhile recorded Fyodor’s Uragan activities on video.
 
 Doug Wheelock performed the periodic offload of the WPA (Water Processor Assembly) into one of the CWC-I (Contingency Water Containers-Iodine) with the common H<sub>2</sub>O Transfer Hose (which took about 23 min) from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Auxiliary Port, then flushed the system.
 
 CDR, FE-4 &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Alex at ~6:30am, Wheels at ~10:55am, Shannon at ~11:30am EDT.
 
 The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-4, FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 No CEO photo targets uplinked for today. 
 
 
