
Payloads:
Actiwatch-Plus: Actiwatch-Plus units were hooked up to the HRF-1 rack for data downlink, battery charging, and swap. The Actiwatch-Plus is a waterproof, non-intrusive, sleep-wake activity monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember and contains a miniature uniaxial accelerometer that produces a signal as the subject moves. The data is stored in non-volatile memory within the Actiwatch until they are downloaded for analysis.
Dreams: The Dreams hardware was doffed, completing an over-night recording. Data was transferred and the hardware was stowed. The Sleep Monitoring in Space with Dry-Electroencephalogram (EEG) Headband (Dreams) is a technology demonstration investigation that utilizes the Dry-EEG Headband: an effective, affordable, and comfortable solution to monitor astronaut sleep quality during long-duration spaceflight aboard the ISS. Sleep plays a major role in human health and well-being. Insufficient sleep, or sleep disorders can increase the risk of developing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular diseases, and can impair task performance.
Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools (EarthKAM): The 85mm lens was installed on the EarthKAM hardware in Node 2. Not everyone can go to space, but everyone can see Earth from an astronaut’s perspective with the EarthKAM program. Thousands of students can remotely control a digital camera mounted on the ISS, and use it to take photographs of coastlines, mountain ranges, and other interesting features and phenomena. The EarthKAM team posts the students’ images on the internet, where the public and participating classrooms can view Earth from a unique vantage point.
JEM Water Recovery System (JWRS): Cables, gas hose, and bags were connected to the JWRS in the Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR). The demonstration of JWRS generates potable water from urine. In the past, urine and wastewater were collected and stored, or vented overboard. However, for long-term space missions, water supply could become a limiting factor. Demonstrating the function of this water recovery system on orbit contributes to updating the Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) to support astronauts on the space station and future exploration missions.
Story Time From Space-9: The Eclipse Demo procedure and script was reviewed for the upcoming video recording. Story Time From Space combines science literacy outreach with simple demonstrations recorded aboard the ISS. Crewmembers read five science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related children’s books in orbit, and complete simple science concept experiments. Crewmembers videotape themselves reading the books and completing demonstrations. Video and data collected during the demonstrations are downlinked to the ground and posted in a video library with accompanying educational materials.
Systems:
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Purge Pump and Separator Assembly (PPSA) Installation: Today, the crew completed the final steps for the installation of PPSA. The crew began by routing a 28VDC purge pump power cable and the separator vent hose through the Node 3 Deck 4 (NOD3D4) rack. Then, the crew installed PPSA, secured the 28VDC purge pump power cable and the separator vent hose, and finally mated all connections. A final closeout was conducted at the end of the activity to ensure all parts are in the expected configuration. The PPSA will serve to replace the Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) and the Separator Plumbing Assembly (SPA) for the Urine Processor Assembly (UPA) by performing both functions.
IFM Stall and Toilet Removal and Installation: The crew removed starboard stall panels and folding middle stall panels against Waste Hygiene Compartment (WHC) for the NOD3D4 rack rotation during PPSA installation. Additionally, the crew removed Toilet to clear space for the PPSA activities as well. After the rack rotations were completed, the Toilet system and Stall were installed back to the original configuration. Toilet is a NASA authorized development of the Universal Waste Management System (UWMS) to address a capability gap for a robust, low consumables, low profile human metabolic waste management system for future space exploration vehicles.
Crew Quarters (CQ) Blanket Inspection: Today, the crew inspected and documented photos of the conditions of the acoustic blankets and blanket covers in the Node 2 Overhead CQ. This will help to prioritize the replacement of the acoustic blankets or blanket covers. The rest of the CQ blanket inspections will be performed tomorrow.  
