ISS On-Orbit Status 07/16/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
 Upon wake-up, CDR Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 In preparation for their Orlan EVA-25 on 7/26, Mikhail Kornienko &amp; Fyodor Yurchikhin performed a 1-hr session each with the Russian MedOps procedure MO-6 (Hand-Cycle Ergometry) in the SM (Service Module), assisting each other in turn and being supported by ground specialist tagup.    [Because cosmonauts in early Russian programs have shown noticeable decrease in arm muscle tone, TsUP/IBMP (MCC-Moscow/Institute of Biomedical Problems) physical fitness experts have groundruled the handgrip/arm tolerance test analysis (hand ergometry) as a standard pre-Orlan EVA requirement.  For MO-6, the subject dons the ECG (electrocardiogram) biomed harness, attaches three skin electrodes and plugs the harness into the PKO medical exam panel on the cycle ergometer.  The other crewmember assists.  The exercise itself starts after 10 seconds of complete rest, by manually rotating the cycle's pedals, set at 150 W, backwards until "complete exhaustion".]
 
 FE-6 Walker worked in the COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), first deactivating the PWS-1 (Portable Work Station 1) laptop, then performing a complete software reload of the laptop from “ghosting” CDs (Compact Disks) and rebooting the PWS-1.
 
 Later, Shannon began her second Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment, assisted by FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) in preparing the Actiwatches, electrode sites, attaching the harness, donning the Cardiopres and taking documentary pictures.     [ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist &amp; ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Shannon started the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise, preferably on the CEVIS cycle ergometer, includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs, the Cardiopres is doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery are changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
 FE-6 also supported POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center/Huntsville) in the COL on the MSG (Microgravity Science Glovebox) with the startup for the second run of the SAME (Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment), troubleshooting the system by powering up the MSG facility and its MLC (MSG Laptop Computer) opening the VES (Vacuum Exhaust System) &amp; GN<sub>2 </sub>(gaseous nitrogen) valves in the MSG work volume, then turning on the experiment’s 120V power.    [SAME troubleshooting was successful.  Checkout got underway OK, and if all is going well, payload operators should be able to run a test point today.]
 
 As part of the Russian education program OBR-3 (Obrazovanie -3, Education 3), Mikhail Kornienko completed Part 2 of the 6<sup>th</sup> onboard run of the Russian SSTV (Slow Scan TV) equipment for the MAI-75 experiment, today activating the hardware with the RSK-2 laptop and JPG photos with Earth views for transmittal, then contacting ground sites.  The station’s onboard ham radio station ID is RS0ISS (“Roman Sergey 0 Ivan Sergey Sergey”).     [MAI-75 is essentially a ham radio set-up with Kenwood TM D700 Transceiver and Kenwood VS-N1 (Visual Communicator) gear for downlinking photographic images of the overflown terrain to ground stations, including one at MAI (Moscow Aviation Institute), Kursk, Star City and others.  Later in the day, the radio session was terminated and the equipment closed out.  This concluded the second of two back-to-back sessions started 7/15.  The payload is named after the renowned MAI whose reputation is based on the large number of famous aviators and rocket scientists that received their academic education here.  Among the alumni are Academicians and Corresponding Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences.  Over 100 General and Chief Designers earned their degree at MAI, with famous rocket scientists like Makeyev, Mishin, Nadiradze and Yangel.  MAI also fostered 20 Pilot-Cosmonauts, almost 100 famous test pilots, Heroes of the Soviet Union and Russia.  The amateur radio (ham) equipment aboard the ISS for downlinking SSTV imagery is a MAI product.]
 
 CDR Skvortsov performed another sun-glint observation session with the Russian DZZ-12 RUSALKA (“Mermaid”) experiment from SM window #9, using the hand-held spectrometer (without use of the TIUS three-stage rate sensor), synchronized with a coaxially mounted NIKON D2X camera for taking snapshots, and later downloading the data to laptop RSE1 for subsequent downlink via OCA.  Video footage was also taken, using the SONY HVR-Z7E camcorder in auto mode.     [RUSALKA is a micro spectrometer for collecting detailed information on observed spectral radiance in the near IR (Infrared) waveband for measurement of greenhouse gas concentrations in the Earth atmosphere.]
 
 Alexander also had another 3 hrs set aside for offloading Progress 38P and transferring cargo to the ISS, with IMS (Inventory Management System) logging.  Doug pitched in, offloading US cargo from 38P for transfer to the USOS (US Segment).
 
 Afterwards, the CDR serviced the running experiment “Identifikatsiya” (TEKh-22/Identification) in MRM1 (Mini Research Module 1) Rassvet, downloading structural dynamic data collected by the IMU-Ts microaccelerometer to the RSE1 A31p laptop for subsequent downlink to the ground via OCA.   (Last time done: 7/7).
 
 Caldwell-Dyson performed the visual T+2 Day microbial (bacterial &amp; fungal) analysis of SM &amp; PWD water samples collected on 7/14 for the “Week 18” assessment, using the WMK MCD (Water Microbiology Kit / Microbial Capture Devices) for microbial traces, and the CDB (Coliform Detection Bag) for inflight coliform indications (Magenta for Positive, Yellow for Negative).
 
 Shannon worked on the new VCAM (Vehicle Cabin Atmosphere Module) instrument, closing its ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit) Helium Valve 2 (Calibrant).     [FE-6 opened the same valve a few days ago with no issues or problems. The valve is being closed early because of an unrelated heater anomaly within VCAM, which has delayed a calibration test.  The JPL-developed VCAM identifies gases that are present in minute quantities in the ISS breathing air that could be harmful to crew health.  If successful, instruments like VCAM could accompany crewmembers during long-duration exploration missions.  Similar to the earlier employed VOA (Volatile Organic Analyzer), VCAM can provide a means for monitoring the air within enclosed environments, using a miniature preconcentrator, GC (gas chromatograph), and mass spectrometer for unbiased detection of a large number of organic species.  VCAM's software can identify whether the chemicals are on a targeted list of hazardous compounds and their concentration.  A VCAM calibration gas is used periodically to check how the instrument’s components are actually performing.  The raw data, calibration data, and analysis results are all sent to the ground for further assessment to validate the instrument’s detection, identification, and quantification results.]
 
 Servicing the new NASA CubeLab-1 hardware which she had installed on 7/12, Shannon Walker downloaded data in the form of four text files from a port of the equipment.      [CubeLab is a low-cost 1-kg platform for educational projects.  It is a multipurpose research facility that interfaces small standard modules into the ERs (EXPRESS Racks).  The modules can be used within the pressurized space station environment in orbit, with a nominal length, width, and height of 100 mm and a mass of no more than 1 g.  Up to 16 CubeLab modules can be inserted into a CubeLab insert inside an ER.]
 
 In the COL, Tracy supported ESA KUBIK-3 thermal eBox exchange activities, today setting KUBIK-3 and the KUBIK Drawer to 38 degC for drying and activating temperature control of the thermostat-controlled cooler.     [During the KUBIK-3 and -6 commissioning, both KUBIKs were run at 6°C.  This low temperature created condensation inside the hardware.  The latest engineering tests showed that the drying period during the commissioning phase was not enough to get rid of all the humidity.  In order to be on the safe side, a dry-out of both KUBIKs is scheduled over the weekend.]
 
 FE-4 Wheelock had several hours reserved for continuing the OGA IFM (Oxygen Generation Assembly Inflight Maintenance), preparing for dome replacement on the weekend.     [Activities included purging the OGS (Oxygen Generation System) H<sub>2</sub> (hydrogen) sensor and replacing it with a new spare, then mating all QDs (quick disconnects) to support subsequent ground-commanded pressurization of the dome ORU with N<sub>2</sub> (nitrogen), finally unpowering the rack to prepare for next week’s maintenance after the newly installed H<sub>2</sub> sensor was purged with oxygen for safe powerdown.  Wheels also scavenged an ITCS CSA (Internal Thermal Control System Coolant Sample Adapter) from Node-3 and used it with another ITCS CSA and a CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodine) to set up for Flush operations.  Additionally, Doug was to prepare a Pump ORU for next week’s operations.]
 
 Yurchikhin &amp; Kornienko spent several hours with more preparations for the Russian EVA-25, working in the DC1 Docking Compartment and SM PkhO (Service Module Transfer Compartment) supported by an uplinked 246-items list, to configure the compartments and their systems for the spacewalk. 
 
 Fyodor did the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 Alex completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 Before turning in for the night, Doug Wheelock is the scheduled subject for the PanOptic eye test which requires application of eye drops (Tropicamide [Mydriacyl]) causing eye dilation for subsequent ophthalmic examination performed by Shannon Walker as CMO (Crew Medical Officer) with an ophthalmoscope.     [The procedure, guided by special software on the T61p RoBOT laptop (#1026), captures still &amp; video images of the eye, including the posterior poles, macula &amp; optic disc with the optic nerve, for downlink and expert analysis.]
 
 At ~3:55am, Sasha &amp; Misha linked up with TsUP stowage specialists via S-band to conduct the weekly IMS tagup, discussing inventory &amp; stowage issues, equipment locations and cargo transfers.
 
 At ~10:30am &amp; 3:30pm, Wheels was scheduled for two PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop).
 
 At ~11:25am, Tracy held the regular IMS stowage conference with Houston stowage specialists.
 
 At ~1:45pm, Wheels is scheduled to power up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and to conduct at 1:50pm a ham radio session with Girl Guides of Canada, Guelph, Nova Scotia, Canada.
 
 At ~3:10pm, the crew is scheduled for their regular weekly tagup with the Lead Flight Director at JSC/MCC-Houston.
 
 Alex Skvortsov set up the video equipment to capture his workout session on the TVIS treadmill for subsequent biomechanical evaluation of the crewmember and hardware status at MCC-H.
 
 The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-4, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 ISS Reboost Update: The reboost of the ISS this morning at 3:42:30am EDT was nominal.  Using Progress 38P Rendezvous &amp; Docking thrusters, the purpose of the reboost was to set up phasing for the upcoming Progress 39P and Soyuz 22S/24S flight operations.  Burn duration: 17m 45 s; delta-V: 2.14m/s / 7.0 ft/s.  Mean altitude increase: 3.72 km / 2.01 nmi.
 
 CEO Crew Earth Observation) photo targets uplinked for today were Urumqi, China (ISS had a nadir, early afternoon pass in fair weather with its approach from the southwest.  This desert agricultural region is rapidly transitioning to the focus of China’s petroleum and natural gas exploration.  The city itself is located at the southern edge of the Junggar Basin near a pass between the Erenhaberg and Bogda Ranges.  Trying for context mapping of this challenging target area), Tehran, Iran (the Iranian capital with a population nearing 9 million is located in the northern part of the country about 70 miles south of the coast of the Caspian Sea.  ISS had an excellent pass at midday in clear weather.  As it tracked northeastward over the desert of interior Iran towards the Alborz Range, the crew was to look near nadir for this sprawling urban area), Rome, Italy (the Italian capital, a.k.a. “the eternal city” is located just inland from the nation’s central west coast.  ISS had a near nadir pass at midday in clear weather.  Within seconds of crossing the coast the crew should have spotted this sprawling city of 3.7 million.  Trying for contextual mapping views of this target), Roseau, Dominica (the crew had a late morning pass with this target just right of track.  Partly cloudy conditions were expected as ISS approached from the southwest.  The island of Dominica lies near the center of archipelago of the Lesser Antilles.  The small capital city of the island nation is located on the southwest coast), Slate Islands Impact Crater, Ontario (ISS had an early afternoon pass in fair weather.  Looking for this target just left of track off the northern shore of Lake Superior.  The Slate Islands were formed by a meteor impact approximately 450 million years ago.  The islands have a surface area of about 36 square kilometers, but the entire impact structure is approximately 32 kilometers in diameter.  As ISS approached the edge of Lake Superior from the west, the crew was to look for these, among other small islands very near the coast.  Context mapping frames of the islands and north coast of Lake Superior were requested), and Palmyra Atoll, central Pacific (Palmyra is one of the Northern Line Islands of the equatorial North Pacific Ocean which lie just over a thousand miles south of the Hawaiian Islands.  This oddly shaped atoll has an area of 4.6 square miles [12 km²], and it consists of an extensive reef, two shallow lagoons, and some 50 sand and reef-rock islets and bars covered with vegetation with a small air strip on the north side.  The near-nadir pass was at mid-morning with partly cloudy weather expected.  Trying for detailed mapping views of the reef structures of this atoll).
 
 
