
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): Today the crew exchanged sample cartridges to prepare for ground-commanded operations in the ELF. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the electrostatic levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. 
Rodent Research-7 (RR-7): Today the crew calibrated the Mass Measurement Device that was installed yesterday in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG). The mice were placed individually into the Container, loaded into the MMD and had three measurements performed on them. Fecal pellets and Food Bar swabs were collected and placed into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  Half of the mice went through this process today and the other half will go through it tomorrow. The RR-7 investigation examines how the space environment affects the community of microorganisms in the gastrointestinal tract of mice (also known as the microbiota). It also looks at microgravity’s effects on multiple physiological systems known to be affected by the microbiota, including the gastrointestinal, immune, metabolic, circadian, and sleep systems. These studies should help explain mechanisms underlying interactions between these systems and the role of the microbiota in these interactions
Space Algae: The crew agitated and installed an additional six Space Algae culture bags in the Veggie facility today. The Space Algae investigation explores the genetic basis for productivity of algae cultivated in space and whether this requires genetic adaptations or not. Algae may perceive microgravity as an abiotic stress, which can trigger production of high value compounds. Investigators plan whole genome sequencing of the space-grown algal populations to identify genes related to growth in spaceflight and testing of algal composition for production of high value compounds. 
Aerosol Samplers: Today the crew retrieved the Active Aerosol Samplers (AASs) that were deployed yesterday in Node 1 and Node 3.  They connected them to the sample chargers and then redeployed them for a second run. The battery-powered AASs actively pull in air and collect particles using the principal of thermophoresis. This is accomplished by flowing the sampled air through a large thermal gradient in a narrow channel. During this process, particles are driven to the cold side of the channel, where an electron microscope (EM) grid is held in place by a tiny magnet. When returned to Earth, these grids are easily removed and placed directly in an EM for analysis. 
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Operations: Today the crew pressurized the JEMAL, performed a leak check, and then extended the JEMAL slide table into the JEM. They removed the NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer-14 (NRCSD-14) from the table and installed the Handhold Experiment Platform Adapter on the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform Assembly (MPEP) that is mounted to the table. This latter operation is in support of the Exposed Experiment Handrail Attachment Mechanism (ExHAM) #1 operations planned for next week. The crew then retracted the slide table into the JEMAL and depressurized and vented the airlock.  
Columbus Condensate Collection: The crew collected a 500ml sample of the Columbus condensate that will be returned on SpaceX-15. Data from this sample may be used to provide further clarification of the reaction mechanism and primary pathway by which Dimethylsilanediol (DMSD) is generated. Improved understanding will be used to potentially circumvent this pathway, as well as provide valuable information that may be used in the design of future habitats for manned missions.
Onboard Training (OBT) Preparation: Tomorrow, the full crew will participate in an ISS Emergency Simulation session; in preparation for this activity, the crew reviewed the simulator functionality on their iPADs. The crew regularly completes OBT sessions to refresh their familiarity with the various emergency procedures that can result from off-nominal events onboard ISS.  
Dragon Cargo Operations: Today the crew continued packing and loading items slated for return on Dragon early next month.  Having just started the second cargo message yesterday, ground specialist estimate ~35 hours of work remain to completely pack the vehicle. 

