
SpaceX-25 (SpX-25) Mission Preparation: Today, a subset of the USOS crew are limited duty in order to prepare for the upcoming SpX-25 mission, which will dock on Saturday and requires bulk cargo unloading on Sunday. SpX-25 is planned to launch tonight at 7:44 pm CT (GMT 196) and will resupply the station with consumables, system hardware, and science payloads.
Payloads:
Kibo Robot Programming Challenge: The JEM module was cleared of stowage and the Astrobee flyers performed remote mapping operations using JAXA software as part of a dry run for the Challenge event. The Kibo-Robot Programming Challenge 3 (Robo-Pro Challenge 3) is an educational program in which students solve various problems by using free-flying robots (NASA’s Astrobee and JAXA’s Internal Ball Camera) aboard ISS. JAXA hosts this program in cooperation with NASA under the framework of the Japan-United States Open Platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3). Robo-Pro Challenge 3 aims to inspire the next generation of scientists, engineers, and world leaders by providing opportunities to learn cutting-edge methodologies in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) subjects.
Biofilms: The Biofilms Big Picture Words were reviewed in preparation for upcoming operations. In the Kubik experiment Biofilms, three bacteria species (A. radioresistens, Staphylococcus sp. and C. metallidurans) will be grown on metal surfaces in a liquid environment at three different gravity levels. The scientific objective is to investigate which metal (stainless steel, copper and brass), and which metal surface treatment (polished and two different laser structured), offers the best anti-bacterial properties on ground, in-orbit, and on Mars.
Kubik: Kubik 5 and Kubik 6 were unstowed and set up in the Columbus module and connected to the Multi-Purpose Computer and Communication (MPCC) hardware. Kubik is a small controlled-temperature incubator, or cooler, with removable inserts designed for self-contained, automatic microgravity investigations such as those using seeds, cells, and small animals.
Systems:
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) ESA Preparations: Crewmember Samantha Cristoforetti continued preparation activities for the upcoming RS EVA ESA, beginning with a physical fitness evaluation on the Cycle Ergometer. A Fresnel lens was installed in the Orlan suit as well as US add-on hardware and Lithium-Ion Rechargeable Extravehicular Battery Assemblies (LREBAs). The Russian EVA is planned for Thursday, July 21.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Pump Separator Remove and Replace (R&R): Due to check separator errors and Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) output issues, the WHC Pump Separator was R&Red. The WHC is a Russian-built system that has been modified to fit within a standard USOS rack. The Pump Separator uses centrifugal force to separate the air and liquid mixture that is drawn into the separator downstream from the Urine Receptacle. The Check Separator light is announced if a separator is flooded, dry, or times out.

