
47 Soyuz (47S) Docking: 47S successfully docked to the ISS at 11:06 PM CDT last Friday. The arrival of Expedition 48 crew members Anatoly Ivanishin, Takuya Onishi and Kate Rubins, the ISS will be in 6-crew operations until 46S return on September 6.
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS 3D): Over the weekend, the crew installed passive radiation detectors in the Columbus module in support of European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) DOSIS 3D investigation.  Data from the various active and passive radiation detectors installed in the ISS are used in the determination of the radiation field parameters absorbed doses and dose equivalents inside the ISS.  A concise three dimensional (3D) dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS will be developed based on this data as well as data from JAXA and NASA monitoring devices.
Space Headaches: Over the weekend and today, the European Space Agency (ESA) Space Headaches questionnaire was completed to provide information to help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crew members in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crew members which can influence performance during a space mission.
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet were completed over the weekend and today for the Fine Motor Skills investigation.  This investigation is critical during long-duration space missions, particularly for those skills needed to interact with technologies required in next-generation space vehicles, spacesuits, and habitats. Crew fine motor skills are also necessary for performing tasks in transit or on a planetary surface, such as information access, training, subsystem maintenance, and medical treatment.
Marrow Blood, Breath, and Ambient Air Sample Collection: Today the crew took blood, breath, and ambient air samples for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) Marrow experiment which investigates the effect of microgravity on human bone marrow. It is believed that microgravity, like long-duration bed rest on Earth, has a negative effect on bone marrow and the blood cells that are produced in the marrow. The extent of this effect and its recovery are of interest to space research and healthcare providers on Earth.
Mouse Epigenetics Setup Operations: In preparation for the Mouse Epigenetics experiment which arrives on SpaceX-9, the crew set up the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit and installed the food cartridge, odor Filter, water fill-up, and the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) filter caser. The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space, and also examines changes in the DNA of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space.
EarthKAM Module Installation and Activation in Service Module (SM): The Russian crew set up the EarthKAM payload components in SM which begins a week-long imaging session. The objective of Sally Ride EarthKAM is to integrate Earth images with inquiry-based learning to enhance curricula in support of national and state education standards; to provide students and educators the opportunity to participate in a space mission and to develop teamwork, communication, and problem solving skills; to engage teams of students, educators, and researchers in collaborative investigations using remotely-sensed data; and to incorporate the active use of Web-based tools and resources in support of the learning process.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of an area or activity providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need. 
47S Crew On Board Training (OBT): The newly arrived crew reviewed and practiced emergency mask don and purge technique. They also performed emergency hardware familiarization to review locations of equipment and valve positions in the event of an emergency. During these training sessions the crew consulted and coordinated with specialists from all control centers.
SSRMS Mobilt Transporter (MT) Translate:  Today, the MT was translated from worksite 4 to worksite 6 in preparation for SpaceX-9 arrival OBT and capture.

