ISS On-Orbit Status 07/12/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Underway: Week 6 of Increment 24
 
 At wake-up, CDR Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 FE-4 Wheelock continued his second session of the medical protocol Pro K (Dietary Intake Can Predict and Protect against Changes in Bone Metabolism during Spaceflight and Recovery), with controlled diet and diet logging after the urine pH spot test.      [Under Pro K, the crewmember measures and logs the pH value of a urine sample, collected the same time of day every day for 5 days.  The crewmember also prepares a diet log and then annotates quantities of food packets consumed and supplements taken during the day.]
 
 FE-6 Walker began her second 24-hr collections of urine samples for the NUTRITION/Repository/Pro K protocol and also drew FD30 (Flight Day 30) blood samples, with FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson assisting with the phlebotomy as operator.  Shannon then set up the RC (Refrigerated Centrifuge) for spinning the samples prior to stowing them in the MELFI (Minus Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  The 24-hour urine collections will be closed out tomorrow.      [The operational products for Blood &amp; Urine collections for the HRP (Human Research Program) payloads have been revised, based on crew feedback, new cold stowage hardware, and IPV capabilities.  Generic blood &amp; urine procedures have been created to allow an individual crewmember to select their payload complement and see specific requirements populated.  Individual crewmembers will select their specific parameter in the procedures to reflect their science complement.  Different crewmembers will have different required tubes and hardware configurations, so they should verify their choice selection before continuing with operations to ensure their specific instruction.]
 
 Continuing the current round of the monthly preventive maintenance of RS (Russian Segment) ventilation systems, CDR Skvortsov inspected &amp; cleaned “Group C” ventilator fans &amp; grilles and the associated flexible air ducts  in the SM (Service Module) with the vacuum cleaner, then changed out the cartridges of the four dust filters (PF1-4), discarding the used cartridges.
 
 The CDR had ~50 min. for shooting additional newsreel footage using the SONY HVR-Z7 #2 high-definition camcorder as part of the ongoing effort to create a photo &amp; video imagery database on the flight of ISS-23/24 (“Flight Chronicles”), today focusing on payload scenes.     [Footage subjects generally include life on the station, personal hygiene, food intake, playing with water, enjoying weightlessness, exercise, moving about, station interior, Earth surface, space clothing, cosmonaut at work, station cleaning, etc.  The photo/video imagery is saved digitally on HDDs (Hard Disk Drives) for return to Earth on Soyuz.]
 
 After charging the battery of the photo/video system of the GFI-8 Uragan (hurricane) earth-imaging program, FE-5 Yurchikhin conducted an observation session with the payload from SM window #9, taking pictures of natural environment targets, including those showing man-made impacts on nature.
 
 Fyodor also completed the periodic refresh of the IUS AntiVirus program in the Russian VKS auxiliary (non-network) laptops RSS1, RSK1, RSK2, RSE1, which are not loaded from the ground, from a special software program working with Norton AV on the FS (File Server) laptop, first scanning the latter, then transferring the database by flash-card to the other computers and scanning them one by one.     [Only the RSS2 laptop is automatically updated (once a week on Fridays from MCC-Houston).]
 
 Caldwell-Dyson &amp; Wheelock continued the IFM (Inflight Maintenance) on the CDRA (Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly), finishing up CDRA back bed (#201) installation by mating the fluid, power, and data connections.     [Remaining work includes installation of the hydraflow connectors (when the AR racks are swapped) and to clean the Node 3 AR rack AAA (Avionics Air Assembly, not required for Node-3 CDRA activation.  All beds are installed and the rack swap will be scheduled in the next few weeks.  The rack that is in NODE-3 does not work in NODE-3 so it has to move to the lab.  This is due to 1553 comm connection issues.]
 
 Afterwards, Tracy reviewed new uplinked procedures for her continued troubleshooting attempts of the FSL VMU (Fluids Science Laboratory / Video management Unit) in the ESA COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), scheduled tomorrow.     [After the troubleshooting activity Tracy did on 6/14, data communication problems are persisting in FSL VMU DLT (Digital Line Tape) recorder and the two hard disks.  One possible explanation could be a connection problem (power &amp; data) of those devices (DLT and HDD’s) as connected to the VMU.  Therefore, Tracy was to reconnect and check the mating of several data and power connectors/jumpers on those devices.]
 
 Later, Tracy unstowed, configured and installed the U.S. EarthKAM (EK) hardware, for the first time in the unpowered WORF (Window Operational Research Facility) for a new session, powered by a Ku-band power supply unit.  Unfortunately, errors were encountered on the laptop and the setup could not be completed. Over 50 schools have already signed up to participate.  Last time done: 4/26-5/1/10.
 
 Shannon Walker unstowed the new NASA CubeLab-1 hardware and installed it for operation, then recorded documentary video of the setup and ensuing operations.      [CubeLab is a low-cost 1-kg platform for educational projects.  It is a multipurpose research facility that interfaces small standard modules into the ERs (EXPRESS Racks).  The modules can be used within the pressurized space station environment in orbit, with a nominal length, width, and height of 100 mm and a mass of no more than 1 g.  Up to 16 CubeLab modules can be inserted into a CubeLab insert inside an ER.]
 
 Afterwards, Shannon had ~30 min for a familiarization review of SAME (Smoke Aerosol Measurement Experiment) procedures for upcoming activities.
 
 FE-3 did the daily IMS (Inventory management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
 The CDR completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 FE-3 Kornienko &amp; FE-5 Yurchikhin had ~3 hrs set aside for an in-depth review of their upcoming EVA-25 (7/26).
 
 Meanwhile, Shannon Walker spent about an hour on gathering US EVA tools which will be supporting the Mikhail &amp; Fyodor on their EVA.
 
 Doug Wheelock worked in the US Airlock on his and Tracy’s EMUs (Extravehicular Mobility Units), setting up EMUs #3010 &amp; #3011 with their SCUs (Service &amp; Cooling Umbilicals) and initiated the standard one-hour scrubbing process on the spacesuits’ cooling water loops, filtering ionic and particulate matter (via a 3-micron filter), then reconfigured the cooling loops and started the ~2hr biocide filtering.    [Loop scrubbing, incl. iodination of the LCVGs (Liquid Cooling &amp; Ventilation Garments) for biocidal maintenance, is done to eliminate any biomass and particulate matter that may have accumulated in the loops.]
 
 Afterwards, Wheels went through the regular monthly session (his first) of the CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) emergency medical operations OBT (On-Board Training) drill, a 30-min. exercise to refresh his CMO (Crew Medical Officer) acuity in a number of critical health areas.  The video-based proficiency drill today focused on Eye Treatment.   [The HMS (Health Maintenance Systems) hardware, including ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) equipment, may be used in contingency situations where crew life is at risk.  To maintain proficiency, crewmembers spend one hour per month reviewing HMS and ACLS equipment and procedures via the HMS and ACLS CBT (computer-based training).  The training drill, each crewmember for him/herself, refreshes their memory of the on-orbit stowage and deployment locations, equipment etc. and procedures.] 
 
 Caldwell-Dyson completed another deployment of four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies in the Lab (at bay P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307) for two days, to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.     [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]
 
 Alex Skvortsov performed air sampling, employing the Russian AK-1M adsorber in the SM and FGB, as well as the IPD-CO Draeger tubes, on a cartridge belt with a pump, to check the SM cabin air for CO (Carbon Monoxide).  The samplers were stowed for subsequent return to Earth.
 
 About the same time, Shannon Walker collected air samples with the GSC (Grab Sample Container) in the SM, Lab &amp; Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), using three regular samplers.      [GSC #1091 – SM; GSC #1042 – LAB; GSC #1078 – COL.]
 
 Kornienko serviced the RS radiation payload suite “Matryoshka-R” (RBO-3-2), setting up new Bubble dosimeters for recording radiation traces, initializing &amp; deploying the detectors and verifying proper function of the setup with the LULIN-5 electronics box.    [A total of eight Bubble dosimeter detectors (A01-A08) were initialized in the Bubble dosimeter reader in the SM and positioned at their exposure locations, three in the spherical “Phantom” unit on the DC1 panel and five in the SM (two in starboard crew cabin on both sides of the MOSFET (metal oxide semiconductor field-effect transistor) dosimeter detector unit, two under the work table, and one at panel 410).  The deployment locations of the detectors were photo-documented with the NIKON D2X camera and also reported to TsUP via log sheet via OCA.  The complex Matryoshka payload suite is designed for sophisticated radiation studies.  Note: Matryoshka is the name for the traditional Russian set of nested dolls.]
 
 Mikhail also disconnected the BPP-2 fuse panel in the MRM1 Rassvet module.
 
 Later, FE-3 collected &amp; downloaded the periodic sensor readings of the Russian “Pille-MKS” (MKS = ISS) radiation dosimetry experiment which has 12 sensors placed at various locations in the RS (DC1, SM starboard &amp; port cabin windows, ASU toilet facility, control panel, MRM2, etc.), with one, the “duty” dosimeter, in the Reader.  Today’s readings were taken from all 11 deployed dosimeters, and dose data were logged and called down to TsUP.  The dosimeters were then re-deployed and the flashcard replaced.     [The dosimeters take their readings automatically every 90 minutes.]
 
 Skvortsov performed the regular weekly maintenance of the TVIS (Treadmill with Vibration Isolation &amp; Stabilization), primarily inspecting the condition of the SLDs (Subject Loading Devices) in contingency configuration, SLD cables for fraying and SPDs (Subject Positioning Devices), lubricating as required, plus recording time &amp; date values.
 
 Doug conducted the periodic maintenance &amp; visual inspection of the ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device), checking out the rails &amp; rollers, greasing the Y- and Z-axis rails &amp; rollers and evacuating its cylinder flywheels to maintain proper vacuum condition and sensor calibration.
 
 The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2, FE-4), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 At ~10:15am EDT, the Exp-24 crew conducted a teleconference with future Exp-25 crewmembers on the ground, a traditional early “handover” exercise.
 
 FE-4 &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PMCs (Private Medical Conferences), via S- &amp; Ku-band audio/video, Shannon at ~11:35am, Doug at ~2:35pm.
 
 Doug &amp; Shannon had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Wheels at ~8:40am, Shannon at 4:10pm.
 
 Oxygen Generator Assembly (OGA) Update:    The OGA Hydrogen Dome ORU (Orbit Replaceable Unit) is considered failed.  The path forward is to finalize procedures to flush the acidic water from the current OGA recirculation loop and then replace the H<sub>2</sub> Dome with the onboard unit.  Currently, oxygen is at 158 mmHg; Russian Elektron is on in 31amp mode.
 
 No CEO photo targets uplinked for today. 
 
 
