
Multi-purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR): The crew set up the MSPR Payload Control Box and completed configuration for the Florescence Microscope. The MSPR is a multipurpose payload rack system used in the JEM. It has two workspaces and a worktable that can be used for wide fields of space environment utilization including science and educational missions.
Hermes Facility: The crew opened the vacuum valve and closed the circuit breakers to the SAMS Tri-axial Sensor Heads (TSH) in preparation for Hermes Operations. Hermes is an experimental microgravity facility that enables science experiments, microgravity exposure testing, testing of engineering components, testing of CubeSats, concept trials, and any payloads that fit within the Hermes design and operations constraints. It is open to any investigation that benefits from microgravity exposure.
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL): The crew replaced the motor valve and initiated a water loop check on the MSL facility. The MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. The MSL can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules. In this way, many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
SpX-18 Arrival Preparations: In preparation for the upcoming arrival of SpaceX-18 planned on July 23, the crew completed the following:

Commercial Orbital Transport Services (COTS) UHF Communication Unit (CUCU) Checkout: The crew coordinated with ground teams to activate the CUCU System and performed a Crew Command Panel (CCP) checkout. CUCU provides a command and telemetry communications link between ISS and Dragon during free flight operations near ISS.
On-Board Training (OBT) Dragon Offset Grapple: The crew performed this OBT to practice grapple approaches during which the crew maneuvered over the pin to practice pulling the trigger once in the grapple envelope. Training points included how to best manage volumetric constraints in the Cupola, how lighting on the grapple fixture changes and how light varies inside the Cupola.

Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) Troubleshooting: Overnight, ground teams performed a blower test at different speeds to characterize the current profile following the high current faults that were experienced a day prior.  Teams will review the TAS data to determine a forward plan.

