
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Humidifier Fill: In preparation for the JAXA Space Moss experiment arriving on SpX-18, the crew performed a CBEF humidifier refilling activity.  The experiment grows mosses on the ISS and on Earth to determine how microgravity affects their growth, development, gene expression, photosynthetic activity, and other features. Tiny plants without roots, mosses need only a small area for growth, an advantage for their potential use in space and future bases on the Moon or Mars.
Cerebral Autoregulation (CA): The crew set up the Cardiolab Portable Doppler and the Continuous Blood Pressure Device, and performed a CA science session.  As the body’s most important organ, the brain needs a strong and reliable blood supply, so the brain is capable of self-regulating blood flow even when the heart and blood vessels cannot maintain an ideal blood pressure. The JAXA investigation tests whether this self-regulation improves in the microgravity environment of space.
Combustion Integration Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (CIR/ACME): The crew exchanged the mass flow controller and manifold gas bottle.  The different flow controllers allow the ACME experimenters to study combustion under different gas flow regimes. The currently on-going Flame Design investigation studies the production and control of soot in order to optimize oxygen-enriched combustion and the design of robust, soot-free flames. Soot can adversely affect efficiency, emissions, and equipment lifetime, so this may lead to more efficient and cleaner burner designs. The experiment is conducted with spherical flames of gaseous fuels in the CIR as part of the ACME project.  Flame Design is one of five experiments hosted by CIR/ACME. 
Genes In Space-6 (GIS-6):  As part of the GIS-6 Freeze and Fly experiment part 3, the crew set up the Biomolecule Sequencer (BMS), configured the Flow Cell, prepared samples for sequencing in the BMS, and started the BMS run.  The investigation evaluates the Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) repair process in space for the first time by inducing DNA damage in cells and assessing mutation and repair at the molecular level using the mini-PCR and the BMS tools aboard the ISS.  DNA is the blueprint for life; it carries all our genetic information. Since DNA is so important, making sure it stays intact is an incredibly critical process. 
The ISS Experience: The crew set up the ISS Experience System to capture the Time Perception experiment session, which was performed on today. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Time Perception: Using a head-mounted Oculus Rift display/headphones, a finger trackball, and support computer, the crew performed a Time Perception experiment session.  In this experiment, a program on the laptop induces visual and audio stimuli to measure a subject’s response to spatial and time perception in a microgravity environment. The accurate perception of objects in the environment is a prerequisite for spatial orientation and reliable performance of motor tasks. Time is fundamental to motion perception, sound localization, speech, and fine motor coordination.
US Lab Overhead 4 Audit and Relocation: The crew audited and relocated items in this Lab location, which will be blocked during the upcoming HERMES payload installation.

