
Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) Maximum:  The crew set up and performed a Sprint VO2 Max exercise protocol. The subject completed their Flight Day 75 session with assistance from the other USOS crewmember.  The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions. 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 3:  The crew retrieved the Biophysics 3 Plate 1 from a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) and allowed it to thaw before placing it onto the Petri Base and installing the base into the LMM.  The LMM was then placed into the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) for a Biophysics science run.  Using the three-dimensional structure of proteins, scientists can determine how they function and how they are involved in disease. Some proteins benefit from being crystallized in microgravity, where they can grow larger and with fewer imperfections. Access to crystals grown on the ISS supports research for a wide range of diseases, as well as microgravity-related problems such as radiation damage, bone loss and muscle atrophy. This investigation identifies which proteins would benefit from crystallization in space.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF):  The crew exchanged sample holders in the ELF and removed a sample that was lost in the ELF chamber. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Two Phase Flow:  The crew configured hardware and materials in the Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) and activated the Two Phase Flow experiment.  Boiling normally removes heat by turning liquid into vapor at the heated surface, and that vapor returns to a liquid by way of a condenser which continues to cycle and make a cooling system. In the microgravity of space, the heat transfer rate must be changed because liquid and bubble behavior is drastically different than on Earth. This investigation seeks to build a database on the heat transfer efficiency of liquids in space that can be used in the design of high-performance thermal management systems for future space platforms.
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  The two Animal Habitats in use for RR-5 were cleaned and restocked with new food bars.  Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight.

