
59 Soyuz Launch/Dock: 59S is scheduled to launch tomorrow, July 20, from Baikonur Cosmodrome at 11:28 AM CT carrying Aleksandr Skvortsov, Luca Parmitano and Andrew Morgan to the ISS. Docking to the SM aft port is scheduled at 5:50 PM CT with hatch opening at 8:04 PM CT followed by an ISS Safety Briefing with all 6 crewmembers. 
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): The crew configured the video cable connection for the CBEF facility in preparation for Space Moss operations after SpX-18 arrival. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) sub rack facility, which contains an incubator with an artificial gravity generator.
LSG (Life Sciences Glovebox): The crew setup the LSG decontamination system into the LSG in preparation for Cell Science-02 arriving on SpX-18. LSG is a sealed work area that accommodates life science and technology investigations in a “workbench” type environment. Due to its larger size design, two crewmembers can work in the LSG simultaneously.
Materials Science Research Rack (MSRR-1): The crew replaced the older T61P laptops with the new Z-Book laptops and performed the software load. The MSRR-1 is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. MSRR-1 can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules (EMs). Many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
Plasma Krystall-4 (PK-4): The crew reviewed procedures for the Pk-4 Experiment Campaign. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the ESA and the Roscosmos, performing research in the field of low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles.
Lab Low Temperature (LT) Internal Thermal Control System (ITCS) Flow Increase: The Lab LT Pump Package Assembly (PPA) speed was increased from 18900 rpm to 19843 rpm to increase available coolant flow for payload operations from now through the SpaceX-18 mission. This is the first of several enhanced flow configurations to be approved following on-orbit testing performed in June.
On-Board Training (OBT) Emergency Procedure Review: The crew reviewed emergency roles and procedures in preparation for 59S docking. 59S will dock to the SM Aft port to allow 60S unmanned technical demonstration docking to MRM2 next month.

