
SpaceX-25 (SpX-25) Launch: The SpaceX-25 Dragon spacecraft launched aboard a Falcon 9 rocket at 7:44 PM CT yesterday evening. The spacecraft is carrying more than 5,800 pounds of research, supplies, and hardware to the ISS. Following the successful launch, the Dragon spacecraft will prepare to rendezvous with the ISS on Saturday morning, July 16th.
Payloads:
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (FLARE): Solid Combustion Experiment insert 2 was retrieved and partially installed into the FLARE facility. Fundamental Research on International Standard of Fire Safety in Space – Base for Safety of Future Manned Missions (FLARE), a JAXA investigation, explores the flammability of materials in microgravity. Various solid fuels are burned under different conditions and observed inside a flow tunnel. Microgravity significantly affects combustion phenomena and results are expected to contribute to the improvement of fire safety in space.
Freezer-Refrigerator Of STirling cycle (FROST): The crew changed the temperature controller dial setting. The FROST facility is an active freezer/refrigerator used aboard the ISS. FROST offers cold stowage capability inside of the JEM and is commonly used to support low temperature experiments.
Rodent Research-22 (RR-22): Rodent Habitats were installed into the LAB in preparation for future operations. Effects of Spaceflight on Tissue Regeneration (RR-22) investigates the effects of spaceflight on systemic and local responses of skin healing using mice as a model organism. Researchers use multiple genetic and biological assessments to define the underlying biological changes and identify those that affect tissue regeneration, which could provide therapeutic targets for improved treatments.
TangoLab-2: The CubeLab Satellite was removed from TangoLab-2 and activated for a checkout and photo documented. The CubeLab Satellite was re-attached to the card and placed back into the TangoLab for charging. TangoLab-2 is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development and pilot manufacturing in the ISS.
eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System (XROOTS): Fluid from Root Modules was recirculated back into Fluids Reservoir and the wicks were examined and opened when required. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) ESA Preparations: Crewmember Samantha Cristoforetti continued preparation activities for the upcoming RS EVA ESA. EVA equipment was prepped for training and Orlan systems were checked out during the pre-EVA training. EVA gear was donned for comm checks and monitoring, as well as controls checks, leak checks, and fit checks. An Orlan translation exercise was completed and ORUs and EVA equipment were installed and configured. The Russian EVA is planned for Thursday, July 21.
Regenerative Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) Recycle Tank Drain/Fill: The recycle tank was set up to drain via the Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Fill Drain Valve into a Brine EDV using the Urine Transfer System (UTS). Following the setup, the ground performed the tank drain using the UTS. Once the ground specialists completed the transfer, the crew verified the recycle tank was empty, terminated the drain, repositioned the fill/drain valve to force fill the recycle tank using UTS, and configured for nominal processing operations. The crew also swapped the EDVs in the backup and offload spots of the UTS.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Water Container (ЕДВ-У) Remove and Replace (R&R): Today the crew R&Red the existing ЕДВ-У in the WHC. The ЕДВ-У is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities.
SpX-25 Arrival Preparations: Several activities were completed by the crew in preparation for the arrival of SpX-25 vehicle to the ISS on July 16th. The Node 2 Forward hatch was opened to ventilate any stagnant air before closing prior to docking, and Station Support Computers (SSCs) were relocated. Cargo operations, vehicle operations, mission profiles, crew interfaces, and docking target assessments were reviewed. These reviews were followed by conferences with the SpX-25 ground team and instructors to discuss any questions and updates.

