
Orbital-2 (Orb-2) Capture/Berthing: The crew successfully captured Cygnus using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) at 5:39 am CDT. The ground used the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to maneuver Cygnus into position near the Node 2 Nadir berthing port for Passive Common Berthing Mechanism (PCBM) inspection and berthing. Following berthing, the crew proceeded with post-berthing activities including leak checks, hatch opening and vestibule outfitting and the vehicle is now on ISS power. The crew completed removal of the CBM Controller Panel Assemblies (CPAs) that were originally scheduled for tomorrow.  The crew is scheduled to ingress the vehicle tomorrow.
Sprint Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman completed his Flight Day (FD) 45 Sprint Volume of Oxygen Utilized (VO2) protocol using the Blood Pressure (BP)/Electrocardiogram (ECG) hardware. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Body Mass Measurements: Commander (CDR) Swanson, Wiseman, and FE-6 Gerst conducted body mass measurements using the Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device (SLAMMD) hardware. The hardware follows Newton’s Second Law of Motion by having two springs generate a known force against a crewmember mounted on an extension arm with resulting acceleration used to calculate the subject’s mass. The device is accurate to 0.5 pounds over a range from 90 pounds to 240 pounds.
Robonaut Operations: Swanson reviewed procedures and conferred with the Robonaut ground team before beginning the first of six days of Robonaut hardware setup to upgrade the mobility unit. Swanson Removed & Replaced (R&Rd) the Robonaut helmet, elbow and shoulder softgoods. Afterward, the ground initiated a firmware update. Tomorrow, Swanson will continue Robonaut torso upgrades.
Oxygen Generation Assembly (OGA) Status: Following yesterday’s OGA fault due to high H2 readings, it was moded to standby to allow low O2 flow to purge nitrogen from the H2 sensor Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU).  All three H2 sensors returned to normal readings.   OGA was reactivated and is currently in process mode.
Russian Router [БРИ] Connection Issue – The crew reported a problem with the Russian router БРИ. Several reboots were attempted with no change in status. Log files were downlinked and БРИ was shutdown. MCC-M is working to bypass the BRI and transition to the backup onboard LAN configuration in the Russian Segment. 

