
Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) Racks Health & Status Issues: This morning the Health & Status (H&S) telemetry from EXPRESS Racks (ER) 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 was reported to be toggling and extended telemetry from ERs 7 and 8 were lost.  While a warm reset of the improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG) for ERs 7 and 8 recovered extended telemetry, attempts to recover H&S through a Payload Multiplexer Demultiplexer (MDM) swap were unsuccessful and teams continue to troubleshoot. 
Micro-11: For today’s 5th run of the Micro-11 investigation, the crew checked out, configured and calibrated the Micro-11 microscope, thawed samples removed from aGeneral Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER), fixed those samples and loaded them into the microscope for imaging.  They then inserted the samples into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  There are a total of thirteen runs for the Micro-11 investigation.  Micro-11 examines whether spaceflight alters human sperm, by tracking the swimming patterns of human and bull sperm during spaceflight. This investigation also assesses other aspects of sperm functionality related to male fertility. As a result, Micro-11 provides fundamental data indicating whether successful human reproduction beyond Earth is possible, and whether countermeasures are needed to protect sperm function in space. 
Fluid Science Laboratory (FSL) Rack:  This morning the crew removed and replaced the FSL Video Management Unit.  A second crewmember assisted by tilting the rack down to allow for the hardware changeout. This is part of the preparations for installation of the Soft Matter Dynamics experiment container next week.
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS): The crew transferred a MICS ampoule kit to the ISS Portable Glovebag and broke two ampoules in each sample bag and mixed the contents in the ampoules with a spatula. They then returned each sample bag to the kit bag, which was stowed for return. A total of eight MICS sessions are planned. The MICS investigation supports the evaluation of microstructure and material properties of benchmark cement samples.  Different responses to thermal and mechanical loading are expected and will be characterized in detail.  Positive attributes found in the hardening process due to the microgravity environment aboard the ISS will be reported with the intent of improving Earth-based cement and concrete processing. 
AngieX Cancer Therapy: Today the crew performed microscope operations for the AngieX Cancer Therapy investigation. The AngieX Cancer Therapy investigation examines whether endothelial cells cultured in microgravity represent a valid in vitro model to test effects of vascular-targeted agents on normal blood vessels. AngieX has developed a treatment that targets both tumor cells and vasculature, but needs a better model on which to test it. This study may facilitate development of a cost-effective method that does not require animal testing and which may help develop safer and more effective vascular-targeted drugs. 
Light Microscopy Module (LMM) Biophysics 4:  Today a crewmember retrieved Biophysics 4 Plate 2 from a MELFI and allowed it to thaw before placing it onto the Petri Base and installing the base into the LMM.  The LMM was then placed into the Fluids Integrated Rack (FIR) for a Biophysics 4 science run. An issue with communications between hardware components prevented the completion of this run.  Ground experts are working with the crew on troubleshooting steps. Proteins are important biological molecules that can be crystallized to provide better views of their structure, which helps scientists understand how they work. Proteins crystallized in microgravity are often higher in quality than those grown on Earth. LMM Biophysics 4 examines the movement of single protein molecules in microgravity.
Aerosol Samplers: Today the crew deployed Active Aerosol Samplers (AASs) in Node 2 and the US Laboratory. The battery-powered AASs actively pull in air and collect particles using the principal of thermophoresis. This is accomplished by flowing the sampled air through a large thermal gradient in a narrow channel.  During this process, particles are driven to the cold side of the channel, where an electron microscope (EM) grid is held in place by a tiny magnet. When returned to Earth, these grids are easily removed and placed directly in an EM for analysis.
NanoRacks CubeSat Deployer-14 (NRCSD-14): Earlier today, the crew depressurized and vented the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock in support of tomorrow’s NRCSD-14 cubesat deploy.
Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) Operations:  Last night and this morning, robotics ground controllers in Houston installed Hyperspectral Imager for the Coastal Ocean (HICO)/Remote Atmospheric and Ionospheric Detection System (RAIDS) Experiment Payload (HREP) in the Dragon Trunk.  This concludes the external robotics operations for SPX-15.  The ground controllers then configured the Mobile Servicing System (MSS) for OA-9 release on Sunday. After conducting a SSRMS walk-off to the Node 2 Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF), they relocated Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) from Mobile Base System (MBS) PDGF 1 to MBS PDGF 2 prior to grappling the Cygnus OA-9 spacecraft.

