ISS On-Orbit Status 07/17/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.      Saturday – crew off-duty.
 
 Upon wake-up, FE-3 Kornienko performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [FE-3 will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 Also at wake-up, FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson conducted another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
 The six station residents completed the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).     ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
 As part of the uborka house cleaning, the Russian crewmembers conducted regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) and Group E fan grills in the SM (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP).
 
 Fyodor Yurchikhin performed the regular maintenance of the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air purification subsystems (UOV) in the SM &amp; FGB, cleaning the pre-filters with a vacuum cleaner with narrow nozzle attachment and later restarting POTOK in automatic mode.
 
 For her on-going second Ambulatory Monitoring session of the ESA ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) experiment, Shannon Walker observed the initial 10-min rest period before going about her business, changing Makita batteries several times.  Midpoint for the entire ICV run was reached at about 11:35am EDT.     [The rest period involved relaxing &amp; breathing normally for 10 minutes under quiet, restful conditions.  ICV activities consist of two separate but related parts over a one-week time period: an ultrasound echo scan &amp; an ambulatory monitoring session.  Today, wearing electrodes, the HM2 (Holter Monitor 2) for recording ECG (Electrocardiogram) for 48 hours, the ESA Cardiopres/BP to continuously monitor blood pressure for 24 hours, and two Actiwatches (hip/waist &amp; ankle) for monitoring activity levels over 48 hours, Shannon continued the ambulatory monitoring part of the ICV assessment.  During the first 24 hrs (while all devices are worn), ten minutes of quiet, resting breathing are timelined to collect data for a specific analysis.  The nominal exercise includes at least 10 minutes at a heart rate ≥120 bpm (beats per minute).  After 24 hrs (today at 11:35am), the Cardiopres was doffed and the HM2 HiFi CF Card and AA Battery were changed out to allow continuation of the session for another 24 hours.  After data collection is complete, the Actiwatches and both HM2 HiFi CF Cards are downloaded to the HRF PC1, while Cardiopres data are downloaded to the EPM (European Physiology Module) Rack and transferred to the HRF PC1 via a USB key for downlink.  The sessions are scheduled at or around FD14, FD30, FD75, FD135 and R-15 (there will be fewer sessions if mission duration is less than six months). The FD75 echo scan will include an exercise component with a second scan (subset of the first) completed within 5 minutes after the end of exercise.  The primary objective of the accompanying CCISS (Cardiovascular Control on return from the ISS) experiment is to maximize the information about changes in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular function that might compromise the ability of astronauts to meet the challenge of return to an upright posture on Earth.]
 
 Walker also completed the regular bi-monthly reboots of the OCA Router and FS SSC (File Server Station Support Computer) laptops.
 
 After configuring the usual pumping equipment (Compressor-M, hoses, adapters), Alex Skvortsov initiated the transfer of urine from 8 EDV-U containers to the empty BV1 Rodnik storage tank of Progress M-06M/38P at the SM Aft port.    [After the urine had been transferred, the CDR flushed the tank with 5 L of disinfectant solution from an EDV w/Disinfectant, running the compressor for 4 min.  Each of the spherical Rodnik tanks BV1 &amp; BV2 consists of a hard shell with a soft membrane (bladder) composed of elastic fluoroplastic.  The bladder is used to expel water from the tank by compressed air pumped into the tank volume surrounding the membrane and is leak-tested before urine transfers, i.e., with empty tanks, the bladders are expanded against the tank walls and checked for hermeticity.]
 
 Tracy continued her support of the CFE (Capillary Flow Experiment), powering up the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and starting data flow, with POIC (Payload Operations Integration Center) routing the on-board HRDL (High Rate Data Link) equipment and monitoring via HD video.  Tracy later shut the experiment down again.    [After finishing yesterday’s CFE runs, Tracy today received kudos from POIC: “You completed two great runs, the initial Dry Chamber test and one Wet Chamber test.  We’re excited about the excellent video we got for the capillary action dynamics for this experiment. This is the first time we’ve used the HD video camera for our science.  Also, both of these tests gave us good confidence that the wait times we had estimated analytically (i.e. 10 minutes) for the fluid volume to reach its final equilibrium (or static) state is adequate for these runs and future operational runs.  We’re looking forward to completing the remainder of the ICF1 operations test matrix in the near future.”  CFE has applications to the management of liquid fuels, cryogens, water-based solutions and thermal fluids in spacecraft systems.  ICF is one of three CFE experiments, the others being Vane Gap (VG) and Contact Line (CL).  Each of the CFE experiments is represented with two unique experimental units (1,2), all of which use similar fluid-injection hardware, have simple and similarly sized test chambers, and rely solely on video for highly quantitative data.  Silicone oil is the fluid used for all the tests, with different viscosities depending on the unit.  Differences between units are primarily fluid properties, wetting conditions, and test cell cross section.]
 
 Caldwell-Dyson also shut down EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle School Students) operations at the WORF (Window Operational Research Facility) rack at the Lab science window and stowed the gear.     [The use of the WORF was a First for EarthKAM, but the camera system remained nonfunctional.  Operations have been terminated until the cause of the anomaly can be determined and corrected.]
 
 Alex completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.   [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers.]
 
 At ~8:40am EDT, the crew conducted their regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
 At ~10:10am, Alex, Mikhail &amp; Fyodor conducted a PAO telephone conference with the editor of the 
 Rossiyskiy Cosmos Magazine via S-Band.
 
 FE-2, FE-3 &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Mikhail at ~6:00am, Tracy at ~7:05am, Shannon at ~1:40pm EDT.
 
 The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-2, FE-6), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-4, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-4) and VELO ergometer bike with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3, FE-5).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 
