
Northrup Grumman 20 (NG-20) Cygnus Departure: Today, Cygnus unberthed from the Node 1 Nadir Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) using the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS), then maneuvered to the release position and released for departure at 6:03 AM CST. Cygnus, filled with waste/trash from the space station packed by the crew, will perform a destructive re-entry into the Earth’s atmosphere over the next day.  NG-20 was named S. S. Patricia “Patty” Hilliard Robertson after the late American Astronaut. 
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): Today, the CFT crew assisted the ISS crew by performing a food audit and an external photo inspection through the ISS windows.  They also performed operations in support of the Transparent Alloys payload.
Payloads:
Cerebral Autoregulation: A Cerebral Autoregulation measurement session was executed. The hardware was then consolidated and audited prior to hardware stowage. More information on this experiment can be found here.
Genes in Space Molecular Operations and Sequencing (GiSMOS):  DNA sample was prepared for sequencing using the Biomolecule Sequencer. This completes Run 3/Part 2 of GiSMOS operations. More information on this experiment can be found here. 
Transparent Alloys (TA): Science run TAC6c2 was finished which completes the last series of Columnar-Equiaxed Transition in Solidification (CETSOL-2) experiments. The crew removed the cartridge connector and installed the protection cover connector in order to override a malfunctioning microswitch. The cartridge and TA hardware was removed from the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) and stowed. More information on the Transparent Alloys-CETSOL investigation can be found here.
Systems:
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Servicing and Cooling Umbillical (SCU) Operations: Today the crew performed an SCU Remove and Replace (R&R), installing SCU 1011 and packing SCU 1009 for return to Earth. The new unit will be checked out early next week to confirm equipment health. 
ISS Safety Video Survey: A video survey of the ISS was performed for ground analysis. The crew obtained video of the interior volume that allows the ground team to assess the current vehicle configuration and to identify any areas of concern related to ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, emergency egress paths, access to fire ports, and safety equipment.  The Safety Video Survey is performed approximately every six months.
Columbus Delta Pressure Sensor Block 2 Troubleshooting: Crew and Ground teams worked together to troubleshoot Columbus delta Pressure Sensor Block 2.  Prior to the actual troubleshooting, the COL1OF4 rack was tilted down.  Crew performed an R&R on the Delta Sensor Block 2 and performed troubleshooting steps provided by ground teams. Afterwards, the crew closed the cover and tilted the COL1OF4 rack back down.
