
Efficacy and Metabolism of Azonafide Antibody-Drug Conjugates in Microgravity (ADCs in Microgravity):  The crew retrieved a BioCell Habitat, inoculation kits and ADC samples from a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI), set up hardware inside the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Work Volume and inoculated the Multiwall BioCells using Inoculum syringes.  Later today the crew will repeat these steps with a second BioCell Habitat which begins an 11-day run. The ADCs in Microgravity investigation evaluates new antibody-drug conjugates that combine an immune-activating drug with antibodies to target only cancer cells, increasing the effectiveness of chemotherapy and reducing its side effects.  In microgravity, cancer cells grow in three-dimensional, spheroid structures that closely resemble their form in the human body, allowing for better drug testing. This investigation may accelerate development of targeted therapies for cancer patients.
NeuroMapping: The crew set up the Neuromapping hardware and performed tests in “strapped in” and “free floating” body configurations. During the test, the crew executed three Behavioral Assessments: mental rotation, sensorimotor adaptation, and motor-cognitive dual tasking. The investigation studies whether long-duration spaceflight causes changes to brain structure and function, motor control, or multi-tasking abilities. It also measures how long it would take for the brain and body to recover from possible changes. Previous research and anecdotal evidence from astronauts suggests movement control and cognition can be affected in microgravity. The NeuroMapping investigation performs structural and functional magnetic resonance brain imaging (MRI and fMRI) to assess any changes that occur after spending months on the ISS.
Food Acceptability:  The crew completed a Food Acceptability questionnaire. The Food Acceptability investigation seeks to determine the impact on food acceptability on ISS of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system. Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions.
Fine Motor Skills (FMS): The crew completed a series of interactive tasks during a FMS session. The investigation studies how the fine motor skills are effected by long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of the investigation is to determine how fine motor performance in microgravity varies over the duration of six-month and year-long space missions; how fine motor performance on orbit compares with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance varies before and after gravitational transitions, including periods of early flight adaptation and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
JEM Wireless Access Point (J-WAP)-2 Install:  The crew removed the JEM Wireless Access Port located at the JPM1A7 location and replaced it with an improved JEM Wireless Access Port (J-WAP)-2. JWAP-2 will provide JEM internal Wi-Fi capability which incorporates new radio communications standards.  

