
Payloads
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew performed the CAL Slice-7 Removal and Replacement (R&R). The closeout procedures were only partially completed due to the crew running out of time for the activity. The remainder of the closeout will be completed at a later date. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero, much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
EarthKAM (Sally Ride Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle Schools): The crew configured the EarthKAM D2Xs camera with an 85mm Extravehicular Activity (EVA) lens. EarthKAM allows thousands of students to photograph and examine Earth from a space crew’s perspective. Using the Internet, the students control a special digital camera mounted on-board the ISS. This enables them to photograph the Earth’s coastlines, mountain ranges and other geographic items of interest from the unique vantage point of space. The EarthKAM team then posts these photographs on the Internet for viewing by the public and participating classrooms around the world.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4): The crew distributed particles within the sample vial and initiated experiment runs using the new alternate method for particle distribution. InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Vection: The crew executed a Vection experiment session. The objective of the study is to determine to what extent an astronaut’s ability to visually interpret motion, orientation, and distance may be disrupted in a microgravity environment, and how it may adapt, and how it may be changed upon return to Earth. Multiple experimental time points inflight and upon return to Earth allows for the adaptation and recovery process to be investigated.
Systems
LAB Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) Maintenance: The crew returned to the CDRA temporarily stowed in the JPM and reinstalled the components which had been removed to access the bed for the R&R back into the CDRA frame. Once fully reassembled, the crew temporarily stowed CDRA in the JPM. CDRA maintains cabin carbon dioxide partial pressure levels within specified limits, while minimizing air and water losses to space. Over time, the adsorbent material inside the CDRA beds breaks down creating dust which eventually reduces the airflow to the point where CDRA is no longer operable and an R&R of the bed is desired. Performing an R&R of a CDRA bed is a multi-crew and multi-day activity due to the complexity of the equipment. The removed bed will be disassembled and cleaned at a later date.
Avionics Air Assemblies (AAAs) Checkouts: The crew attempted to perform checkouts of the two suspect AAAs (removed from the Water Processor Assembly (WPA) rack and Expedite the Processing of Experiments to Space Station (EXPRESS) 1 rack in May) in the LAB Atmosphere Revitalization (AR) rack since the CDRA is currently removed. The crew was unable to connect electrical connectors to perform the checkout of the first AAA and stood down form the activity to allow ground teams to determine a forward plan. There are currently no on-orbit AAA spares other than these suspect units and therefore, checkouts are highly desired. AAAs are high speed fans that provide cooling and smoke detection to racks in the ISS. 
Crew Dragon Port Relocation Preparations: The Endeavour crew completed a port relocation On-Board Training (OBT) and performed checkouts of the flight suits in preparation for port relocation next week. Endeavour is scheduled to relocate from the Node 2 Forward International Docking Adapter (IDA) to the Node 2 Zenith IDA on Wednesday, July 21st. This relocation will clear the Node 2 Forward IDA for OFT-2 docking planned for Saturday, July 31st. 

