
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer (NRCSD) Operations:  On Saturday Kelly completed final preparations for a series of deployments of CubeSats from a NRCSD by performing a leak check of the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Airlock (AL) and venting residual air. Kelly opened the outer hatch and extended the JEMAL slide table to the JEM Exposed Facility (JEF) on the exterior of the ISS.  The ground operations team used the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) Small fine Arm (SFA) to grapple the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) mounted on the slide table and maneuvered it into position for the initial cubesat deploys. Today the first 2 Dove Cubesats of the “Flock 2” fleet of satellites were launched. These nanosatellites enable imagery of the entire planet to be taken on a frequent basis, with humanitarian and environmental applications ranging from monitoring deforestation and the ice caps to disaster relief and improving agriculture yields in developing nations. Kelly used a still camera to take photos of the CubeSat deployment from the Cupola window. A total of 16 cubesats will be deployed this week: 14 Planet Lab Doves, 1 Arkyd-3 and 1 Centennial-1 satellite.
Capillary Effects of Drinking in the Microgravity Environment (Capillary Beverage):  Kelly continued the Capillary Beverage experiment today, drinking from a specially designed Space Cup with an open top to demonstrate how a fluid reacts to the cup’s design. High definition video captured images that will be analyzed on the ground.  Since microgravity affects fluid dynamics, in the past crew members have drunk from special sealed bags instead of using straws or normal cups. The Capillary Beverage investigation studies the process of drinking from Space Cups with different design configurations that mimic the gravitational flow of a liquid through capillary forces.
Observation and Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space (OASIS):  Padelka reviewed OASIS products, then filled the inkjet droplet device with glycerol/water for the final experiment protocol on each sample container and exchanged hard drives. This first of four OASIS experiment operations will be ground commanded beginning Wednesday. OASIS studies the unique behavior of liquid crystals in microgravity, including their overall motion and the merging of crystal layers known as smectic islands. Liquid crystals are used for display screens in televisions and clocks, and they also occur in soaps and in cell membranes. The experiment allows detailed studies of the behavior of these structures, and how microgravity affects their unique ability to act like both a liquid and a solid crystal.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: Kelly inspected Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Portable Breathing Apparatus (PBAs), and Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs) to verify there is no degradation in the units and that they are ready for use.
Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA): Sunday 12-July-2015 the Remote Power Controller (RPC) that powers the Lab CDRA valves tripped due to an overcurrent event, this signature has been seen past several times. Several RPC reclosure attempts have been performed followed by additional overcurrent trips.  At the time of this report the RPC has been closed for two hours.  Earlier today, the Node 3 (N3) CDRA Air Selector Valve (ASV) 104 faulted out when it failed to reach position B.  Ground controllers performed multiple troubleshooting steps, but were unsuccessful in getting the valve to reach position B.  The next step is to leave the RPC open overnight to allow the CDRA to cool down and cycle the valve again tomorrow.  If ASV 104 cannot be recovered, it will likely need to be replaced. The Vozdukh is operating as the primary means for scrubbing CO2 and is operating nominally.  Onboard ppCO2 is currently at 2.2 mmHg.

