
Node 3 Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Water Separator (WS) Change Out:  Today, the crew replaced the Node 3 CCAA WS. The unit had experienced several water carryover events since May 3, 2017. To assist in preventing these events, ground teams adjusted the Node 3 Low Temperature Loop to reduce condensation rates.  The failing unit esd operational for over 7 years with expected life of 5 years. Ground teams activated the newly repaired CCAA and are receiving good telemetry.    
Magnetic 3 Dimensional (Mag 3D) Cell Culturing:  With assistance from the Payload Developer, the crew used a microscope to view Magnetic 3D Biocells. They fixated the biocells and inserted them in to a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). This was followed by injections of Magnetic 3D cultures media into the multiwell Biocells. Cell cultures in space spontaneously grow in three dimensions, resulting in characteristics more representative of how cells grow and function in living organisms. But in microgravity, routine manipulation of cell cultures is challenging. This investigation uses magnetized cells and tools to make it easier to handle cells and cultures and to improve the reproducibility of experiments. This approach also makes it possible to generate two-dimensional cultures as controls, and to determine whether biological events in these monolayer cultures result from gravity or substrate attachment.
Microbial Monitoring System (MMS): The crew configured the hardware and collected low and high DNA concentration deionized water samples using the Razor Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) Microbial Monitoring System.  They then transferred data from the sample tests for downlink.  The MMS supports crew testing and monitoring of the safety of water supplies on the ISS and is also applicable to future space missions where Earth-based testing would be difficult or impossible. 
Habitability Walk-through: The crew will record and submit a walk-through video today documenting observations of life onboard ISS and providing insights related to human factors and habitability. The investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. These observations can help spacecraft designers understand habitable volume requirements and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crewmembers need or not.

