
New Status:
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Microscope Setup: FE-6 Nyberg assembled the Fluorescence Microscope for installation in the MSPR.  This configuration, along with the leak checks that the crew performed in June are in preparation for the Aniso Tubule experiment launching on HTV-4 in August.  Aniso Tubule will investigate the role of cortical microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins in plant growth while in microgravity.
ISS Emergency On-Board Training (OBT): All six crew and Flight Control Team (FCT) members in Mission Control Centers (MCCs) participated in an OBT event simulating an onboard emergency.  Crew members stepped through procedures and used an OBT simulator to provide simulated data for a rapid depress, fire, toxic event, or ammonia release event. Following the OBT, the crew conducted debriefs with both MCC-Houston and MCC-Moscow.
Biolab Reconfiguration: Over the next few days, the crew will perform several Biolab maintenance activities in preparation for extended ground testing and the Biolab Commissioning Run which will demonstrate Biolab’s ability to support the upcoming experiments.  Today, FE-5 Parmitano installed Life Support Modules (LSMs) 1 & 2. He executed an exchange of the biological isolation filters on the incubator rotors, and exchanged the Incubator Cold Spot Sponge.  Next week, the crew will install the Biolab Microscope and Microscope Distribution and Cleaning (D&C) Cassette.
Internal Thermal Control Systems (ITCS) Sampling: FE-3 Cassidy performed nominal sampling from the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) and US Lab ITCS. He also configured the Columbus module for samples taken later in the day by Parmitano. The preventative maintenance task is performed to determine the Ortho-Phthalaldehyde (OPA) and ammonia levels in the ITCS for each of the modules.
Water Pump Assembly (WPA) Microbial Check Valve (MCV) Failure to Check: Following a WPA process cycle this morning the WPA MCV failed to check.  This is a known issue that has been tracked since the beginning of the year and has the potential to result in backflow from the waste water tank to the potable line. Ground teams are currently implementing a previously developed plan to flush the WPA reject line which will push any migrating waste water downstream of the potable line.  After the flush is complete the WPA will be ready to continue processing. The team will continue to monitor performance of the MCV in the future to determine if any additional actions are required.

