
New Status:
Marangoni-UVP2 Removal: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy removed the processed Spatio-temporal Flow Structure in Marangoni Convection (Marangoni-UVP2) from the Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) in advance of the installation of the next Marangoni experiment series.  He then proceeded to change out the lamps inside the FPEF and configure for tomorrow’s installation of the Marangoni Deformation 30 (MD30) in advance of the Dynamic Surf experiment scheduled during Increment 37.  Marangoni-UVP2 investigates Marangoni convection in microgravity, a process driven by the presence of a surface tension gradient produced by temperature differences occurring at a liquid/gas interface. Knowledge gained will improve the efficiency of thermal devices.  Dynamic Surf investigates Marangoni convection in microgravity, a process driven by the presence of a surface tension gradient produced by temperature differences occurring at a liquid/gas interface. Results will give information on how heat is transferred in microgravity, and improve the efficiency of thermal management systems.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS)/Quick Don Mask Assembly (QDMA) Inspection: FE-5 Parmitano successfully completed a Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) and Quick Don Mask Assembly (QDMA) Inspection.  The Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFE) and Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBA) tank quantities were within the nominal limits.
Tele-operator Control System (TOPУ) Drill: Commander (CDR) Vinogradov and FE-4 Yurchikhin participated in a Progress TOPУ drill with ground controllers in advance of the upcoming Progress vehicle traffic.  On July 25, 50 Progress will undock from the Docking Compartment (DC)-1 module.  On July 27, 52P is scheduled to launch from the Baikonur Cosmodrome and then rendezvous and dock at the DC1 nadir port 4-orbits later.
Robonaut Barcode Reader (BCR)/Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) Test: FE-6 Nyberg configured Robonaut to utilize the BCR to scan a Cargo Transfer Bag (CTB) containing RFID tagged hardware.  Ground controllers commanded Robonaut, while Nyberg observed and cleared faults as required. She handed the BCR to Robonaut who successfully scanned the CTB and its contents. Robonaut then handed the BCR back to Nyberg for stowage. Following today’s operations, Nyberg returned Robonaut to its stowed location.

