
Biological Rhythms 48 Multi Media Card Exchange: The crew stopped the first half of the 24-hour recording that began yesterday and changed out the Multi Media Card and battery of the Digital Walk Holter ECG, then began the second half of the 24-hour recording. The objective of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Biological Rhythms 48 is to study the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
Fluid Shifts: Crewmembers continued Fluid Shifts operations by configuring the Refrigerated Centrifuge for sample load operations, conducting body (blood, urine, and saliva) sample collections and stowing the samples in a MELFI (Minus Eighty-degree Freezer for ISS). Fluid Shifts is a joint USOS – Russian experiment that measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures
JEM Airlock (JEM AL) Operations: With assistance from the ground team, the crew completed Airlock Control and Display Unit-Remote Control (ACDU-RC) checkout and JEM AL labeling activities. They also removed the Handhold Experiment Platform Adapter from the Multi-Purpose Experiment Platform (MPEP) prior to removing MPEP from the Small Fine Arm (SFA) Airlock Attachment Mechanism (SAM) which is on the JEMAL slide table. This is in preparation for next week’s planned installation of NanoRacks External Platform (NREP).
At Home in Space Questionnaire: The crew completed a questionnaire for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) At Home in Space experiment which assesses culture, values, and psychosocial adaptation of astronauts to a space environment shared by multinational crews on long-duration missions. It is hypothesized that astronauts develop a shared space culture that is an adaptive strategy for handling cultural differences and they deal with the isolated confined environment of the space craft by creating a home in space. At Home in Space investigates individual and culturally related differences, family functioning, values, coping with stress, and post-experience growth. 
Microbial Check Valve (MCV) Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) Remove & Replace (R&R): The Water Processing Assembly (WPA) has been experiencing high pressure faults when in reprocess mode due to high delta pressure across the MCV. The old MCV was installed following a failed R&R in 2015 and was degraded. Today the crew replaced the MCV with a spare delivered on SpX-9. The WPA is currently in process mode and data indicates the delta pressure has returned to normal levels.
Transition to the Power Management Control Application (PMCA) and Photovoltaic Control Application (PVCA) R5 Software Suite: The X2 PMPV R5 software transition began over the weekend and continued through today.  Yesterday the software was pushed to the Backup Photovoltaic Control Unit (PVCU) Multiplexer-Demultiplexers (MDMs) [PVCU-3B, PVCU-3A, PVCU-4A and PVCU-2B], which were then transitioned to Primary.  Today the software was pushed to the remaining PVCU MDMs [PVCU-1A, PVCU-1B, PVCU-2A, and PVCU-4B]. After the software loads were completed, the MDMs were transitioned from backup to primary. This returned the MDMs in their final desired Prime/Backup configuration.
Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew has unloaded all cargo from the vehicle.  The crew completed 2.5 hours of cargo packing and loading for return.

