
NanoRack Cubesat Deployer-Quad (NRCSD-Q) Installation: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst installed two sets of NRCSD-Qs on the slide table in the JEM Airlock (JEMAL). The Cubesats were delivered on Orb-2 and will be deployed via the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) at a later time.
Clean Bench (CB) Maintenance and Valve Check: Commander (CDR) Swanson cleaned the CB chambers and checked out the relief valves. This is periodic maintenance for the CB which is located inside the Saibo Rack in the JEM Pressurized Module (JPM).
Earth Rim Observation: FE-5 Wiseman set up cameras in the Cupola and took sequential pictures of the Earth’s rim. The images will be taken in conjunction with the nadir-pointing Visible and Infrared Spectral Imager (VISI) on the external Multi-mission Consolidated Equipment (MCE). This will give the ground stereoscopic images to help clarify the structures and dynamics of the Earth’s upper atmosphere, using the emission of the airglow and the aurora.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo Review: Swanson and Gerst reviewed the SPHERES Vertigo procedures in preparation for the SPHERES Vertigo test run scheduled for tomorrow. The investigation uses the SPHERES facility free-flying satellites and is designed to demonstrate and test, in a complex environment, enhanced technologies and techniques related to visual inspection and navigation. This effort incorporates hardware and software that enables multiple SPHERES to construct three dimensional (3D) models of a target object. Additionally, this investigation explores how well the SPHERES free-flyers then perform relative navigation solely by reference to these 3D models.
Maneuver Post 56 Progress (56P) Docking:  Following the successful docking of 56P last night during the maneuver to Torque Equilbrium Attitude (TEA) under Service Module thrusters, the Russians paused the maneuver due to high propellant usage. 56P was incorporated into the control system and the maneuver was continued using 56P roll thrusters.  Following the reconfiguration, the maneuver was continued.  During this phase of the maneuver, one of the thrusters in SM manifold 2 did not perform as expected and FDIR swapped to an equivalent manifold 1 thruster.  After the ISS arrived at TEA, it took some time for the rates to settle, but the Control Moment Gyro (CMG) Momentum Manager (MM) mode was subsequently enabled.

