
New Status:
50 Progress (50P) Undocking: The Progress 50P vehicle (M-18M, No. 418) successfully undocked from the ISS Russian Segment Docking Compartment 1 (DC1) nadir docking port at 3:44 pm CDT, after the command to open the vehicle hooks was issued at 3:41 pm CDT.  The separation appeared smooth with no vibrations noted.  Video from the Progress vehicle showed that the docking ring surface appeared nominal and free of debris.  The first separation burn was completed at approximately 3:47 pm CDT and the de-orbit of the vehicle is planned for today at approximately 6:53 pm CDT.
Marangoni Deformation (MD) 30 Fluid Physics Experiment Facility (FPEF) Setup: FE-3 Cassidy continued with the configuration of the FPEF for the MD30 and Dynamic Surf experiments starting in Expedition 37.  Cassidy removed the FPEF Experiment Cover, setup 3-D cameras, installed the MD30 and Infrared (IR) imager into the FPEF, and then reinstalled the Experiment Cover.
Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Hardware Replace: FE-5 Parmitano opened the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) doors and replaced the MDCA Fuel Reservoir in the MDCA Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA), as well as the Igniter Tips and MDCA Fiber Arm.  Following these replacements, Parmitano returned the CIR rack to its operational state.
Common Cabin Air Assembly (CCAA) Swap: FE-6 Nyberg performed a swap of the Lab CCAAs, deactivating the Port-side CCAA and activating the Starboard-side. She first disconnected the Waste Water Hose from the Waste Water Quick Disconnect (QD) at the LAB1P6 Utility Interface Panel (UIP).  Then Nyberg terminated LTL flow through the Port CCAA heat exchanger, activated the Starboard CCAA and is initiating flow through its heat exchanger.   Late last week, ground controllers noticed that the check valve in the Water Separator (WS) for the Port CCAA is showing signs of degradation.
International Space Station Wireless Instrumentation System (IWIS) Remote Sensor Unit (RSU) Update:  Nyberg was scheduled to upgrade the IWIS RSUs with new firmware.  However, she was unable to locate a cable required to connect the RSUs to a laptop for the firmware upgrade.   Ground specialists will investigate what cables are available and reschedule the activity at a later date.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Last night, Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into position to grapple the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM).  They completed the SPDM base change and power up and released it from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 2.  The Robotics Ground Controllers then maneuvered the SPDM away from the MBS and configured the SPDM Body Roll Joint and SPDM Arm 2 to use On-Orbit Replaceable Unit (ORU) Tool Changeout Mechanism (OTCM)-2 to grasp the H Fixture on the Enhanced ORU Temporary Platform (EOTP) and rotate the EOTP 210 degrees.  Next they released the EOTP H Fixture, reconfigured SPDM Arm 2 and the SPDM Body Roll Joint to a stow position and performed the SPDM diagnostics before relocating it to the Lab PDGF.  The Robotics Ground Controllers then released the SSRMS from the SPDM and maneuvered the SSRMS to a park position.  Finally they reconfigured the SPDM Body Roll Joint.  Operations were in preparation for the H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) 4 capture and berthing scheduled for August 9, 2013.

