
Debris Avoidance Maneuver (DAM): Ground teams evaluated tracking data yesterday and throughout the night for a possible conjunction with Object #38925. Due to inconsistent tracking on the object, a 32 second, .5m/sec. Service Module (SM) main engine DAM was performed at 5:56am CDT. To protect 56 Progress (56P) 4-orbit rendezvous today, the DAM was performed retrograde.
56 Progress (56P) Launch/Dock: 56P launched at 4:44pm CDT today from the Baikonur Cosmodrome and docked to the Service Module (SM) Docking Compartment (DC1) at 10:30pm CDT.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst conducted flame tests for the BASS-II investigation. Gerst burned a 4 mm thick, 1 cm wide acrylic slab at multiple velocities. At high flows, the flame was long and sooty. When the flow was reduced, the flame stabilized. This investigation examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) Igniter Replacement: Commander (CDR) Swanson removed the Multi-user Droplet Combustion Apparatus (MDCA) Chamber Insert Assembly (CIA) from the CIR combustion chamber and replaced the igniters. He reinstalled the hardware and closed the CIR. The new igniters will allow the ground team to continue FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 test points. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels. The next FLEX-2 experiment run is scheduled for Friday, March 21st.
Skin-B: Gerst conducted his fourth Skin-B data collection using the Tewameter probe to measure the skin barrier function; the Visioscan Camera to measure skin surface topography; and the Corneometer probe to measure skin hydration. The Skin-B experiment will improve understanding of skin aging, which is slow on Earth but very much accelerated in space. This will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general. The data could help in determining impact on astronauts on future missions to the Moon and Mars for example where environmental conditions are more challenging. 
Sprint Ultrasound: With assistance from Swanson, FE-5 Wiseman took Sprint ultrasound data for his Flight Day (FD) 60 ultrasound Sprint session. Sprint evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in International Space Station (ISS) crewmembers during long-duration missions. Ultrasound scans are on FD 14, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and R-7 for mission duration of six months and are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Canada 1 (C1): Wiseman set up the BCAT-C1 module near the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) in the place of the BCAT-KP hardware. The BCAT-C1 experiment will study nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions will have the unique property that the particles will phase separate (like oil and water) and the particles will self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light (like opal). Photographing these samples in microgravity will allow the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. This study will allow the development of new insights into this important material process.
Ocular Health: Swanson completed his FD 120 Ocular Health vision test with Gerst’s assistance in ultrasounding his eyes. The ultrasound images will be used to identify changes in globe morphology, including flattening of the posterior globe, and document optic nerve sheath diameter, optic nerve sheath tortuosity, globe axial measurements, and choroidal engorgement. Gerst will also help Swanson conduct a cardiac echo as part of the Ocular Health data collection. Wiseman will assist Gerst with his eye ultrasounds, and Swanson will assist Gerst with his cardiac echo. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (VIS) Rail Greasing: Swanson greased the ARED VIS rails and rollers today. This is nominal maintenance that is scheduled every 90 days.

