ISS On-Orbit Status 07/23/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below. 
 
  Crew sleep cycle:  Wake 5:33am, sleep 8:33pm EDT.
 
  Upon wakeup, FE-1 Mike Barratt, FE-2-20 Tim Kopra, FE-4 Bob Thirsk &amp; FE-5 Frank DeWinne continued their new session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  FE-2 Koichi Wakata and FE-5 Frank DeWinne began the second day of his new session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, after the 8-hr overnight fast.    [This was an all-day session of urine sample collections for both several times until termination tomorrow after 24 hrs.  Bob Thirsk assisted the FE-4 in his blood draw.  Frank’s phlebotomy (blood sample collection) from an arm vein is scheduled tomorrow.  The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]
 
  Before breakfast &amp; first exercise, CDR Padalka &amp; FE-3 Romanenko took a full session with the Russian crew health monitoring program's medical assessment MO-9/Biochemical Urinalysis.  Afterwards, the FE-3 closed out and stowed the Urolux hardware.     [MO-9 is conducted every 30 days (and also before and after EVAs) and is one of five nominal Russian medical tests adopted by NASA for U.S. crewmembers for IMG PHS (Integrated Medical Group/Periodic Health Status) evaluation as part of the "PHS/Without Blood Labs" exam.  The analysis uses the sophisticated in-vitro diagnostic apparatus Urolux developed originally for the Mir program.  Afterwards, the data are entered in the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer)’s special IFEP software (In-Flight Examination Program).]
 
  CDR Padalka set up the hardware for the Russian MBI-21 PNEVMOKARD experiment and conducted the 1h15m session, his fourth, which forbids moving or talking during data recording.  The experiment is controlled from the RSE-med A31p laptop, equipped with new software, and uses the TENZOPLUS sphygmomanometer to measure arterial blood pressure.  The experiment was then closed out and the test data stowed for return to the ground.     [PNEVMOKARD (Pneumocard) attempts to obtain new scientific information to refine the understanding about the mechanisms used by the cardiorespiratory system and the whole body organism to spaceflight conditions.  By recording (on PCMCIA cards) the crewmember’s electrocardiogram, impedance cardiogram, low-frequency phonocardiogram (seismocardiogram), pneumotachogram (using nose temperature sensors), and finger photoplethismogram, the experiment supports integrated studies of (1) the cardiovascular system and its adaptation mechanisms in various phases of a long-duration mission, (2) the synchronization of heart activity and breathing factors, as well as the cardiorespiratory system control processes based on the variability rate of physiological parameters, and (3) the interconnection between the cardiorespiratory system during a long-duration mission and the tolerance of orthostatic &amp; physical activities at the beginning of readaptation for predicting possible reactions of the crewmembers organism during the their return to ground.]
 
  FE-1 Mike Barratt completed another session, his third, with the LOCAD-PTS (Lab-on-a-Chip Application Development-Portable Test System) Phase 1 surface sampling experiment.    [LOCAD uses small, thumb-sized “microfluidic” cartridges that are read by the experiment reader.  The cartridges contain dried extract of horseshoe crab blood cells and colorless dye. In the presence of the bacteria, the dried extract reacts strongly to turn the dye a green color. Therefore, the more green dye, the more microorganisms there are in the original sample.  The handheld device tests this new analysis technology by sampling for the presence of gram negative bacteria in the sample in about 15 minutes.  Lab-on-a-Chip technology has an ever-expanding range of applications in the biotech industry.  Chips are available (or in development) which can also detect yeast, mold, and gram positive bacteria, identify environmental contaminants, and perform quick health diagnostics in medical clinics.  The technology has been used to swab the MERs (Mars Exploration Rovers) for planetary protection.  With expanded testing on ISS, this compact technology has broad potential applications in space exploration--from monitoring environmental conditions to monitoring crew health.]
 
  Wakata and Padalka worked with the JEMRMS (Japanese Experiment Module Robotic Manipulator System), successfully unberthing three JAXA experiments and installing them on the EFU (Exposed Facility Unit),- MAXI (Monitor of All-sky X-Ray Image), ICS (Interorbit Communication System), and the SEDA-AP (Space Environmental Data Acquisition Equipment – Attached Payload).
  
  Koichi also swapped the GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator),   stowing the defect unit for post-return analysis on Earth.
 [GLACIER had been powered off on 6/15 in response to exhibiting loud noise and vibration as the fan speed was increased.  The crew removed the JAXA DomeGene samples from GLACIER and transferred them to the MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISSI).  GLACIER is scheduled to return on Flight 2JA.  Specialists will review the data and determine a forward plan.]
 
  In the U.S. Lab, Bob Thirsk started (later terminated) another 5-hr automatic sampling run, the 16<sup>th</sup>, with the new EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health System Gas Chromatograph/Differential Mobility Spectrometer), also known as AQM (Air Quality Monitor), controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC-4 (Station Support Computer 4) laptop.   [The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  Today’s data will again to be compared with VOA and GSC (Grab Sample Container) measurements.  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS hardware.]
 
  FE-3 Romanenko conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers],
 
  Gennady performed the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS (Russian Segment) hatchways.
 
  At ~5:00pm EDT, the joint crew conducted an in-depth one-hour review of procedures for the EVA-4 spacewalk tomorrow, with egress scheduled tomorrow at ~10:03am EDT.
 
  Tonight at ~7:33pm, MS1 Chris Cassidy &amp; MS3 Tom Marshburn will began their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) in the A/L (Airlock) with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe at ~7:33pm-8:33pm and sleep.    [Tomorrow’s EVA-4 will focus exclusively on completing the P6 battery replacement task which was not finished in the shortened EVA-3.  Planned EVA duration is 7h 30m.  EVA-5 will be replanned following completion of EVA-4.]
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2-20), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-1, FE-3, FE-5), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-2, FE-3). 
 
  Later, Wakata transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 
