
New Status:
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT) Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Parmitano performed homogenization and took pictures of the ten Slow Growth Sample Module and mixed the contents of samples 1 – 10.  The samples were then restowed.  FE-3 Cassidy homogenized and installed BCAT-3 Sample 5.  This sample had a larger bubble that broke up into multiple tiny bubbles on April 24, 2013.  The bubbles interfere with phase separation process, and have had time to coalesce back into one larger bubble.  By remixing Sample 5, this session can be performed again.  BCAT-4 samples contain microscopic spheres of different diameters suspended in a liquid, which are photographed over time to document the way they crystallize in microgravity. Results from these experiments will contribute to improvements in materials fabrication processes and new technologies.  BCAT-3 Sample 5 is part of the suite of colloidal tests looking at phase separation and studies the critical point where atoms and molecules organize and form the different states of matter.  The application of this experiment in the near term is to enhance the shelf life of everyday products and in the longer term, the development of revolutionary materials for electronics and medicine, 
Payload Power Switching Box (PPSB) Fuse Exchange: FE-6 Nyberg completed the fuse exchange for the PPSB, swapping a 3 Amp fuse for a larger amperage fuse.  During Expedition 16 the 3 Amp fuse was installed to support Materials International Space Station Experiment (MISSE)-6.  The Expedition 37 High Definition Earth Viewing (HDEV) experiment, scheduled to arrive on SpaceX-3 and installed on the Columbus External Payload Facility (EPF), requires the 20 Amp fuse.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) Troubleshooting Procedure Review and Conference: Cassidy, Parmitano, and Nyberg reviewed an uplinked EMU on-orbit troubleshooting message.  The message listed the objectives tentatively planned for Friday, July 26th to help identify the suspected components of EMU 3011, determine if the fan is operational, verify functionality of the suspect components, determine if further troubleshooting is required, and gather data to assess if an alternate Loop Scrub procedure will meet the requirements for post-EVA loop scrubs of the EMU.  All three crewmembers participated in a conference with ground specialists to discuss the procedures and forward work.
Lab Gas Trap Remove and Replace (R&R): During a task last month in the LAB1P6 location, the crew reported brown residue on  the Lab Low Temperature Loop (LTL) Gas Trap insulation.  The residue is believed to be Ortho-phthalaldehyde (OPA) and salts left behind from an on-going very slow Internal Thermal Control Systems (ITCS) leak.  Nyberg removed and cleaned the insulation surrounding the Gas Trap, took a sample for ground analysis, then R&R’d the Gas Trap.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Robotics Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) into position to grapple the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator System (SPDM).  They completed the SPDM base change and power up and will release it from Mobile Base System (MBS) Power Data Grapple Fixture (PDGF) 2 and relocate it on the Lab PDGF.  Robotics Ground Controllers will then release the SSRMS from the SPDM and maneuver the SSRMS to a park position.  This relocation is being done in preparation for the H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV) 4 capture and berthing scheduled for August 9.  MSS performance was nominal.

