
Significant Events: 
Multipurpose Laboratory Module (MLM) Docking: Today at 8:29 AM CT, the MLM docked to the Service Module (SM) Nadir port completing its 9-day rendezvous to the ISS. The MLM, named Нау́ка– the Russian word for Science, is a pressurized module designed to support crew life, science, interior and exterior cargo stowage, and provide additional docking and airlock capabilities to the Russian On-orbit Segment (ROS). The MLM is now the largest module flown to the ISS to-date measuring approximately 43 feet (13 meters) in length and weighing more than 44,000 pounds (20 metric tons). Included on the MLM is the European Robotic Arm (ERA), a mobile robotic arm that will be used to install large-scale payloads, perform transport operations, replace and maintain service and science equipment on the exterior of ISS, support Extravehicular Activities (EVAs), and perform monitoring of the ISS exterior.
On-Orbit Anomaly: At 11:45 a.m. CT today, following the docking of Roscosmos’ “Nauka” Multipurpose Laboratory Module (MLM) to the International Space Station, flight control teams noticed the unplanned firing of MLM thrusters, causing the station to move out of orientation. Flight controllers in Mission Control Houston continue to monitor the status of the ISS, but as of this afternoon, ISS has returned to its nominal orientation.
Payloads
InSPACE-4:  The crew performed the steps necessary to initiate experiment runs, with a goal of working through runs 54-57. Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4) studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Manufacturing Device (ManD):  The crew removed the printed objects, cleaned the extruder print nozzle, photographed, and stow the pair of printed objects. The Manufacturing Device enables the production of components on the ISS for both NASA and commercial objectives. Parts, entire experiments, and tools can be created on demand utilizing the ManD printer that is installed into an Express Rack locker location. ManD is capable of producing parts out of a wide variety of thermopolymers including engineered plastics.
Pilote:  Using a virtual reality headset, a space-mouse and a haptic device, the crew performed several test protocols related to the Pilote investigation.  In some of the test protocols, the haptic device produced unexpected jitter, but the ground team reported good data and feedback was obtained during the testing today. In order to test the ergonomics of a multisensory interface for controlling robotic arms and spacecraft, it is necessary to perform the trials in microgravity. Performing the test on Earth would lead to a design of a workstation using terrestrial ergonomic principles that do not correspond to conditions experienced on a spacecraft in orbit. The Pilote investigation tests the effectiveness of novel control schemes for the remote operation of robotic arms and space vehicles, using virtual reality and a new class of user-machine interfaces based on haptics.
Systems
Starliner On-Board Training (OBT): The crew completed several OBTs in preparation for the upcoming Boeing Starliner Orbital Flight Test 2 (OFT-2) mission. The OBTs provided the crew with an overview of the OFT-2 mission profile, crew procedures for rendezvous, interfaces for monitoring/commanding OFT-2, and ISS attitude control expectations. 
CASA Airflow and Carbon-Dioxide (CO2) Measurements: The crew stood down from taking airflow and CO2 measurements in CASA due to communication issues with the ground support team. CASA is a crew accommodation located in the Columbus module that can host a 5th United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) crewmember when needed during periods of increased crew capacity. When not used as a crew accommodation, CASA is used for storage.

