
Payloads
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): The crew completed the closeout procedures for the CAL Slice-7 Removal & Replacement (R&R). The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero, much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Cell Science-04: The crew removed the Bioreactors from the Cell Science-04 cassettes located in the BioCulture system facility. The tardigrade (water bear) is the model organism for studying biological survival under the most extreme environmental stress conditions on Earth and in space. The objective of the Using Water Bears to Identify Biological Countermeasures to Stress during Multigenerational (Cell Science-04) investigation is to characterize the molecular biology of short term and multigenerational survival in the space environment by identifying genes that are required for adaptation and survival in high stress environments. The findings from this study can be applied to understanding the stress factors of humans in the space environment, and identification of countermeasures.
Exploration Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) – Toilet: The crew installed the pretreat tank and pretreat hose onto the newly deployed Toilet system in Node 3 and then performed system activation. Ground teams did not see the expected telemetry during the activation and are discussing the forward plan on the ground. The Toilet System is an Exploration Technology Demonstration that has evolved into a permanent United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) system. The Toilet has the same basic design as the Orion Universal Waste Management System (UWMS). The Toilet System will be the primary WMS for USOS for up to 90 crew days and interfaces with the Urine Transfer System (UTS) to allow concurrent Waste & Hygiene Compartment (WHC)/Toilet operations.
GRIP: The crew performed the first of three planned GRIP science tasks. The GRIP experiment studies the long-duration spaceflight effects on the abilities of human subjects to regulate grip force and upper limbs trajectories when manipulating objects during different kind of movements: oscillatory movements, rapid discrete movements and tapping gestures.
HRF-2 (Human Research Facility-2): The crew removed performed procedures to remove the HRF Centrifuge faulty rear latch. Human Research Facility-2 (HRF-2) provides an on-orbit laboratory that enables human life science researchers to study and evaluate the physiological, behavioral and chemical changes induced by spaceflight. Research performed using HRF-2 provides data to help scientists understand how the human body adapts to long-duration spaceflight.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4): The crew distributed particles within the sample vial and initiated experiment runs. InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Space Acceleration Measurement System-II (SAMS-II): The crew cleaned the SAMS RTS/D1 screens in the US Lab with either grey tape or the vacuum cleaner. SAMS-II is an ongoing study of the small forces (vibrations and accelerations) on the ISS resulting from the operation of hardware, crew activities, dockings, and maneuvering. Results generalize the types of vibrations affecting vibration-sensitive experiments and structural life of ISS. Investigators and Structural Analysts seek to better understand the vibration environment on the ISS using SAMS-II data and assessing station loads and dynamics.
Ultrasonic Tweezers: The crew performed Ultrasonic Tweezers experiment scenarios. The objective of the Ultrasonic Tweezers project is to develop acoustic tweezers that use sound to allow for remote and contactless manipulation of materials in a microgravity environment. An ultrasound beam is shaped so that it produces a trap from which an object cannot easily exit. By moving the beam, the object can be moved to a new position with a very good precision.
Systems
Crew Dragon Port Relocation Preparations: The crew performed several activities in preparation for the upcoming Endeavour Dragon port relocation. Today’s activities included a checkout of the Crew Dragon seat actuator, relocation of the Crew Dragon Space Station Computer (SSC) to Cupola to set up as an ISS crew monitoring tool, and reorganization of supplies in Crew Dragon. Endeavour is scheduled to relocate from the Node 2 Forward International Docking Adapter (IDA) to the Node 2 Zenith IDA tomorrow and undock is scheduled for 5:40 AM CT. This relocation will clear the Node 2 Forward IDA for Starliner Orbital Flight Test 2 (OFT-2) docking planned for Saturday, July 31st.
Resupply Air Tank Re-pressurization: Today, two of the four Resupply Air Tanks that were delivered on Cargo Dragon SpaceX-22 were vented in the PMM in order to re-pressurize the ISS internal volume. The remaining two tanks will be vented later this week. 

