
Thermolab Deinstrumentation for Circadian Rhythms: The crew removed the double sensors and Thermolab Unit before cleaning and stowing the equipment following completion of the European Space Agency (ESA) Circadian Rhythm experiment. The measurement process took 36 hours to complete. 
Biological Rhythms 48 Hours Actiwatch Preparation: Today, the crew configured and donned the Actiwatch to commence the Biological Rhythms data collection.  Operations will continue with the holter donning activity on Monday.  Biological Rhythms 48 hours studies the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart function by analyzing an astronaut’s extended electrocardiogram.

Heart Cells Media Change Preparation: The Heart Cells Media was relocated from Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus -4 (CGBA-4) to the Space Automated Bioproduct Lab-2 (SABL-2), and one bag containing three Heart Cells Media for ops was removed and temp stowed. The crew also changed the media in the Multiwell BioCells for Heart Cells in the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Work Volume. The Heart Cells investigation studies the human heart, specifically how heart muscle tissue, contracts, grows and changes (gene expression) in microgravity and how those changes vary between subjects. Understanding how heart muscle cells, or cardiomyocytes, change in space improves efforts for studying disease, screening drugs and conducting cell replacement therapy for future space missions. 
Body Measures Operations: Today two crewmembers began the Flight Day (FD) 15 Body Measures data collection session, one as the subject and the other as operator. However, due to schedule constraints, not all of the objectives were completed.  The remaining tasks will be rescheduled in the near future.  NASA is collecting in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. Still and video imagery is captured and measurements are taken of segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data of all body segments (chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) from astronauts before, during and after their flight missions.
Biological Research In Canisters (BRIC) 23 Operations: The crew performed actuation of all four BRIC 23 canisters by inserting a rod into the BRIC – Petri Dish Fixation Unit (PDFU) Actuator Tool and using the Actuator Tool to mechanically force a growth medium into the Petri dishes. After a 24-hour growth period two of the four canisters will be transferred to the Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for freezing of the samples and the remaining two canisters will be transferred into the MEFLI after a 48-hour growth period. The BRIC-23 investigation studies Bacillus subtilis spores and Staphylococcus aureus cells to understand how they respond to the stressful environment of space. Results from this investigation improve the understanding of how microbes adapt to spaceflight including whether their adaptations change antibiotic effectiveness, which benefits efforts to maintain crew member health. 
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks was completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation. This investigation is critical during long-duration space missions, particularly those skills needed to interact with technologies required in next-generation space vehicles, spacesuits, and habitats. Crew fine motor skills are also necessary for performing tasks in transit or on a planetary surface, such as information access, just-in-time training, subsystem maintenance, and medical treatment.
Dose Tracker: The crew completed entries for medication tracking on an iPad. This investigation documents the medication usage of crewmembers before and during their missions by capturing data regarding medication use during spaceflight, including side effect qualities, frequencies and severities. The data is expected to either support or counter anecdotal evidence of medication ineffectiveness during flight and unusual side effects experienced during flight. It is also expected that specific, near-real-time questioning about symptom relief and side effects will provide the data required to establish whether spaceflight-associated alterations in pharmacokinetics (PK) or pharmacodynamics (PD) is occurring during missions.
Dragon Transfer Operations: The crew has unloaded the entire center stack and port rack, all of the coldbags, a large portion of the soft-stow cargo, all powered cargo including both powered Polars and the JAXA Mouse Habitat Unit Transportation Cage Unit with 12 mice from Dragon to the ISS. Fifty seven percent of the launched cargo has been transferred.
Dragon On-Board Training (OBT):  With the arrival of SpX-9, all 6 crew members participated in an Emergency Response review including emergency hatch closure. The USOS crew also participated in a capture debrief with ground teams.
Water Processor Assembly (WPA) Successful Process: Overnight the WPA successfully completed a process run. Recently, the WPA has been continuously reprocessing due to high conductivity but has faulted out due to high pressure faults of the Microbial Check Valve (MCV). The MCV is tentatively scheduled to be removed & replaced (R&Rd) next week.

