
Biological Rhythms 48 Holter and Actiwatch Removal and Data Save: Upon completion of the Biological Rhythms recording session, today the crewmember removed the Digital Walk Holter Electrocardiogram (ECG) and the Actiwatch Spectrum from his body and saved the data collected from the holter and the multi-media card to the medical laptop. This concluded a series of activities for the Biological Rhythms experiment where two separate 24-hour Actiwatch measurement sessions were performed to study the effects of long-term microgravity exposure on heart functions by analyzing an astronaut’s electrocardiogram for 48 hours.
Fluid Shifts Operations: With operator assistance from the ground team, crewmembers continued the first week of the Fluid Shifts experiment run by configuring the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) hardware, the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) analyzer, and the Distortion Product Otoacoustic Emission (DPOAE) hardware, before completing a DPOAE test, OCT exam, Tonometry exam, and a CCFP test. The Fluids Shift investigation is divided into three segments: Dilution Measures, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging using the Russian Chibis Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) device. The experiment measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures.
Heart Cells Microscope Operations: The crew set up the Heart Cells microscope and removed the BioCell Habitat from the Space Automated Bioproduct Lab (SABL) and the Multiwell BioCell from the BioCell Habitat. These items were inserted into the microscope before conducting Heart Cells operations and placing the Multiwell BioCell back into BioCell Habitat and stowing the BioCell habitat inside SABL-1. The investigation studies the human heart, specifically how heart muscle tissue, contracts, grows and changes (gene expression) in microgravity and how those changes vary between subjects. Understanding how heart muscle cells, or cardiomyocytes, change in space improves efforts for studying disease, screening drugs and conducting cell replacement therapy for future space missions. 
Mouse Epigenetics Maintenance Operations: The crew conducted standard maintenance operations by exchanging the food cartridge of the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit and completing Transportation Cage Unit dryout activities. The investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space as well as changes in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space.
Fine Motor Skills: A series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet were completed for the Fine Motor Skills investigation. This investigation is critical during long-duration space missions, particularly those skills needed to interact with technologies required in next-generation space vehicles, spacesuits, and habitats. The crewmember’s fine motor skills are also necessary for performing tasks in transit or on a planetary surface, such as information access, just-in-time training, subsystem maintenance, and medical treatment.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of life onboard ISS, providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
Portable Emergency Provisions (PEPS) Inspection: The crew inspected and confirmed that the Portable Fire Extinguishers (PFEs), Extension Hose Tee Kits (EHTKs), Portable Breathing Apparatuses (PBAs) and Pre-Breathe Masks are all free of damage. This maintenance is scheduled every 45 days to ensure continuous functionality of the units. 
SSRMS Operations for Pressurized Mating Adapter 2 (PMA2) Androgynous Peripheral Attachment System (APAS) Inspection – SSRMS ungrappled from SpaceX-9 and used the SSRMS Latch End Effector (LEE) camera to complete the PMA2 APAS inspection in preparation for the International Docking Adapter (IDA) ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) installation in August. No significant items were noted in the inspection. The PMA2 APAS is Go for IDA installation. Following the PMA2 APAS inspection, the SSRMS was maneuvered to its park position at the pre-grapple for Dragon Flight Release Grapple Fixture (FRGF).

