ISS On-Orbit Status 07/21/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.  FD (Flight Day) 7 of STS-127/2J/A.  Half day of for crew rest.
 
  Crew sleep cycle:  Wake 6:03am, sleep 9:33pm EDT.
 
  Joint activities by the ISS &amp; Shuttle crews today included –
 <ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">JLE (JEM Logistics Module      – Exposed Section) unberthing from payload bay with SRMS (Shuttle      Remote Manipulator System; ~8:33am EDT),</li> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">JLE hand off to SSRMS      (Space Station Remote Manipulator System)</li> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">JLE installation on JEF      (~10:03am)</li> <li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">ICC-VLD (Integrated Cargo      Carrier-Vertical Light Deploy) removal from ISS POA (Payload ORU      Attachment) to support battery exchange on EVA-3 (~11:53am)</li> </ul> 
  Upon wakeup, FE-1 Barratt, FE-2-20 Kopra, FE-4 Thirsk &amp; FE-5 DeWinne their new session of the experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), logging data from their Actiwatch to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop as part of a week-long session.    [To monitor the crewmember’s sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmembers wear a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by them as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition and use the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
  Bob Thirsk began the second day of his new session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, after the 8-hr overnight fast.    [This was an all-day session, the first for both, of urine sample collections several times until termination tomorrow after 24 hrs.  The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]
 
  In preparation for the upcoming Progress 34P docking, FE-3 Romanenko reviewed training material, then he and CDR Padalka completed the standard three-hour training course with the TORU teleoperator system, which provides a manual backup mode to the Progress’ KURS automated rendezvous radio system.  Afterwards, Gennady &amp; Roman tagged up with a TORU instructor at TsUP/Moscow via S-band audio.    [The drill included procedure review, rendezvous, docking data and rendezvous math modeling data review, fly-around, final approach, docking and off-nominal situations (e.g., video or comm loss).  Three modes were simulated on the RSK1 laptop with varying range and sunlight conditions.  The TORU teleoperator control system lets a SM-based crewmember perform the approach and docking of automated Progress vehicles in case of KURS failure.  Receiving a video image of the approaching ISS, as seen from a Progress-mounted docking television camera (“Klest”), on a color monitor (“Simvol-Ts”, i.e. “symbol center”) which also displays an overlay of rendezvous data from the onboard digital computer, the FE-1 would steer the Progress to mechanical contact by means of two hand controllers, one for rotation (RUO), the other for translation (RUD), on adjustable armrests.  The controller-generated commands are transmitted from the SM's TORU control panel to the Progress via VHF radio.  In addition to the Simvol-Ts color monitor, range, range rate (approach velocity) and relative angular position data are displayed on the “Klest-M” video monitor (VKU) which starts picking up signals from Progress when it is still approximately 8 km away.  TORU is monitored in real time from TsUP over Russian ground sites (RGS) and via Ku-band from Houston, but its control cannot be taken over from the ground.]
 
  FE-1 Barratt started preparations for tomorrow’s EVA-3 by recharging the batteries of the EVA-configured D2Xs cameras
 
  FE-5 DeWinne installed newly arrived white U.S. RAM (Radiation Area Monitor) dosimeters in the ISS, documenting their deployment photographically, and collected used blue RAMs deployed earlier, for return on 1J/A.
 
  Wakata set up an IWIS (Internal Wireless Instrumentation System) RSU (Remote Sensor Unit) accelerometer in the SM (Service Modukle) for for measuring structural dynamics during Progress docking.
 
  Romanenko conducted the periodic checkout &amp; performance verification of IP-1 airflow sensors in the various RS hatchways.   [Inspected IP-1s are in the passageways PrK (SM Transfer Compartment)–PrK–RO (SM Working Compartment), PkhO (SM Transfer Tunnel)–RO, PkhO–DC1, PkhO–FGB PGO, FGB PGO–FGB GA, FGB GA–Node-1.]
 
  Tim Kopra had an hour to himself for general orientation (station familiarization &amp; acclimatization) as is standard daily rule for fresh crewmembers for the first two weeks after starting residence, if they choose to take it.
 
  FE-5 DeWinne removed the desiccant from the nonfunctional GLACIER (General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator), which is slated for return to Earth.    [GLACIER had been powered off on 6/15 in response to exhibiting loud noise and vibration as the fan speed was increased.  The crew removed the JAXA DomeGene samples from GLACIER and transferred them to the MELFI (Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISSI).  GLACIER is scheduled to return on Flight 2JA.  Specialists will review the data and determine a forward plan.]
 
  FE-2-20 Tim Kopra set up and configured the equipment of the biomed experiment “Integrated Immune” for upcoming liquid &amp; dry saliva sampling of the crew.    [Along with NUTRITION (Nutritional Status Assessment), Integrated Immune (Validating Procedures for Monitoring Crew member Immune Function) samples &amp; analyzes participant’s blood, urine, and saliva before, during and after flight for changes related to functions like bone metabolism, oxidative damage and immune function to develop and validate an immune monitoring strategy consistent with operational flight requirements and constraints.  The strategy uses both long and short duration crewmembers as study subjects. The saliva is collected in two forms, dry and liquid.  The dry samples are collected at intervals during the collection day using a specialized book that contains filter paper.  The liquid saliva collections require that the crewmember soak a piece of cotton inside their mouth and place it in a salivette bag; there are four of the liquid collections during docked operations.  The on-orbit blood samples are collected right before undocking and returned on the Shuttle so that analysis can occur with 48 hours of the sampling.  This allows assays that quantify the function of different types of white blood cells and other active components of the immune system.  Samples are secured in the MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  Also included are entries in a fluid/medications intact log, and a stress-test questionnaire to be filled out by the subject at begin and end.  Urine is collected during a 24-hour period, conventionally divided into two twelve-hour phases: morning-evening and evening-morning.]
 
  Romanenko completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur),
 
  Padalka conducted the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM    [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers],
 
  FE-4 Thirsk yesterday replaced the failed SM printer with a new printer delivered on 2J/A. 
 
  At ~6:00pm EDT tonight, the joint crew is scheduled for an in-depth one-hour review of procedures for the EVA-3 spacewalk, with egress scheduled tomorrow at ~1:10pm EDT.
 
  Afterwards, at ~9:33pm, David Wolf (EV1) &amp; Tom Marshburn (EV3) will begin their “campout” (nachalo desaturatsiy = desaturation start) in the A/L (Airlock) with hatch closure and depressurization of the CL (Crewlock) from 14.7 to 10.2 psi, followed by mask prebreathe at ~8:28pm-9:33pm. 
 
  Prior to crew sleep on 7/19, CO<sub>2</sub> (Carbon Dioxide) levels were noted to be higher than expected.  The crew responded by using an additional LiOH (Lithium Hydroxide) “candle” to help remove CO2.  CO2 levels will continue to be monitored over the course of Endeavour’s docked operations.  Several Russian LiOH canisters have been approved for use if additional CO2 scrubbing is required. 
 
  FE-1, FE-2-20 &amp; FE-4 filled out their regular weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).  It was Mike’s 15<sup>th</sup>, Tim’s 1st, Bob’s 5<sup>th</sup> FFQ session.    [On the FFQs, NASA astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-1, FE-4, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4), RED resistive exercise device (FE-3), ARED (Advanced Exercise Devise) FE-1, FE and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (CDR, FE-3).    [The interim RED is being used in lieu of the ARED (Advanced RED) until the latter has had its damaged VIS (Vibration Isolation System) dashpot replaced and can be put back in service.] 
 
  Later, Thirsk transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on RED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
 

