
Payloads:
Analyzing Interferometer for Ambient Air-2 (ANITA-2): Air samples were manually acquired from assigned ISS locations and the crew connected the samples to ANITA-2 for chemical analysis. The ANITA-2 is a compact gas analyzer which can analyze and quantify 33 trace contaminants in the atmosphere aboard the ISS automatically. ANITA-2 can also detect the presence of unknown substances which can be evaluated later on the ground.
Material Science Laboratory-Sample-Cartridge Assemblies-Growth of Ternary Compound Semiconductor (MSL SCA-GTCS): Sample Cartridge GTCS-C3 was prepared in the MSL facility for the next sample run. MSL SCA-GTCS grows semiconductor crystals based on zinc selenide (ZnSe) compounds in microgravity. ZnSe-based crystals have potential applications for high-power lasers operating in infrared wavelengths. The investigation compares structural quality of crystals grown on Earth and in microgravity to establish how gravity-driven fluid flows contribute to formation of various types of crystalline defects.
P&G Telescience Investigation of Detergent Experiments (PGTIDE): Crew created stains on Sample Holders using coffee, tropical punch, sriracha, and olive oil and photo documented the samples. The crew then used the PGTIDE Pen, Wipe, and Cleaning Solution to remove stains, and re-photographed samples. PGTIDE studies the effectiveness of stain removal ingredients in Tide To Go Pens and Tide To Go Wipes in microgravity. The investigation also examines any changes in physical appearance of detergent and thestability and performance of enzymes in detergent formulations caused by exposure to microgravity. Results could support development of detergent systems for Artemis, Mars, and other future space missions where crews need the ability to launder clothing.
TangoLab-3: Cube CDSN_IPS01 (Study of Pluripotent Stem Cells (iPSCs) in Microgravity) was removed from slot A and QUST_NXT02 was inserted into card S/N 014 and installed in slot A. Space Tango’s TangoLab-3 locker is a reconfigurable general research facility designed for microgravity research and development (R&D) and pilot manufacturing aboard the ISS. TangoLab-3 is similar to TangoLab-1 with the primary difference being an upgraded fan system which allows for a greater heat rejection capability. This upgrade enables payloads with greater power draw and lower temperature requirements to use the facility.
Telescience Resource Kit (TREK):  The TREK laptop was relocated to the US LAB module.  Operating space hardware still requires a complicated set of computer software, which operations teams on the ground maintain.  The Flight Demonstration of TReK is a software package that simplifies the software running on the ISS, benefiting users on Earth. Eventually, TReK software will allow scientists, engineers and students who conduct experiments in space to connect to their experiments through regular Internet connection protocols using the new and improved onboard Ethernet communications recently added to ISS.
Systems:
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) In-Flight Refill Unit (IRU) Remove and Replace (R&R): The IRU, also known as the Fluid Pumping Unit (FPU), was replaced with a redesigned unit. The IRU is designed to pump water from the Payload Water Reservoir (PWR) or Contingency Water Container – Iodine (CWC-I) to the Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Mobility Unit (EMU) for recharging of the EMU Water Tanks. The IRU is capable of charging two EMUs simultaneously via the Umbilical Interface Assembly (UIA) and Service and Cooling Umbilicals (SCUs). The redesigned unit contains controls and displays updates. The R&R was followed by a checkout of the new unit by performing a full dump and fill on one EMU.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Short Extravehicular Mobility Unit (SEMU) Launch Enclosure (SLE) Rotation: At the completion of the IRU R&R, the crew installed EMU 3015 into the SLE in the SpX-25 cabin so it can be returned with the vehicle. The SLE is a 6-sided aluminum box used to transport a SEMU up to the ISS and return back to Earth on commercial vehicles.
Health Maintenance System (HMS) ISS Medical Accessories Kit (IMAK) Unpack from SPX-25: The crew unpacked seven new IMAKs and resupplied seven ISS Medical Packs, two Ammonia Response Medical Kits, and one Specialty IMAK. The IMAKs contain supplies to meet each of the crew’s medical needs.

