
Payloads
Astrobee: Astrobee was activated in support of checkout-2 for the Kibo Robotic Programming Challenge.  The goal of the checkout is to confirm good data and voice communication between the 3 space centers involved, ensure the data markers (tags and targets) are in their proper locations, and ensure the files generated during the checkout are routed to the proper path.  The Kibo Robot Programming Challenge (Robo-Pro Challenge), also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the International Space Station (ISS). This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers. This activity is based on Japan-U.S. cooperation through the Japan-US Open platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3).
BioMole: The crew performed BioMole part 1 and part 2 which consists of surface sampling and DNA Extraction using the miniPCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction), followed by DeoxyriboNucleic Acid (DNA) cleanup and amplification with the miniPCR.  The BioMole Facility non-culture based samples are capable of providing microbial identification on-orbit within days of sampling.  The goal of this tech demo is to conduct comparative analysis for possible replacement of current microbial monitoring systems.
Drop Formation Study: The crew studied the experiment overview, filled the DFS accumulator with water, and initiated 2 experiment sessions.  However, there was an issue recording the first experiment session and the session was lost.  The second session was successful and is a repeat of session one so the team was still able to obtain the data.  Droplet Formation Studies in Microgravity (Droplet Formation Study, or more simply DFS) evaluates water droplet formation and water flow of Delta Faucet’s H2Okinetic shower head technology.  To conserve water, flow rates in shower devices have been reduced, but this lower flow rate also reduces the effectiveness of these devices and often causes consumers to take longer showers, undermining the goal of using less water. Gravity’s full effects on formation of water droplet size are unknown, and research in microgravity could help improve the technology, creating better performance and improved user experience while conserving water and energy.
Payload Laptop Terminal 4 (PLT4): The crew performed the reconfiguration of the BIOS on the PLT4, then performed a series of audio checks to verify the audio output.  PLT4 will be used to support the upcoming Space Studio Kibo session.  The Space Frontier Studio KIBO is a broadcasting studio that is constructed and operated in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM), also known as Kibo. The studio can livestream activities, interactive entertainment, and communication from space. The program can receive uplinked video and audio from a ground studio to Space Frontier Studio KIBO, and downlink video and audio from space to ground.
Systems
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Urine Receptacle Remove and Replace (R&R):  Today, the crew removed and replaced the WHC Urine Receptacle and Insert Filter.  After replacement, a functionality test of the WHC was performed and the WHC was declared operational.
USOS Airlock Restow Post US EVAs: The crew deconfigured the Airlock post US EVAs 65-68 and prepared the EMUs for long-term stowage.  EVA hardware that was moved out of the Airlock during the EVAs was moved back into the Airlock and items were reorganized for future return or trash.
EHS Benzene Chip Measurement System (CMS) Operations:  As part of the continued benzene investigation, the crew took two benzene measurements in the Lab today with the CMS reader. Results were provided to the ground. The crew began sampling on GMT 206 with the new CMS readers that arrived on 76P. Readings to date have been below the detectable limits. The crew will continue to take samples in the LAB approximately every other day and the frequency may be altered based on real-time indications.

