
Pre-determined Debris Avoidance Maneuver (PDAM): On Saturday, the ISS performed a PDAM using 58 Progress R&D thrusters.  This was the result of a late notification conjunction. Delta-V was 0.50 meters/second (m/s); burn duration was 4 minutes, 12 seconds. This PDAM will likely replace a reboost that was scheduled for August 6 as the first of three reboosts to set up 4-orbit rendezvous conditions for 44S launch and 42S landing this September.
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: The United States On-orbit Segment (USOS) and 1-Year Mission crewmembers participated in a suite of HRP activities today.  Kelly performed blood draws and urine collections in support of his Flight Day (FD) 120 Biochemical Profile and Twins Study experiments.  Yui continued his FD7 Microbiome with body, perspiration, and surface sample collections.  Lindgren performed his FD6 Cognition, and both Kelly and Kornienko continued their 7-day Sleep Shift Reaction Self-Test operations. 

The Biochemical Profile experiment tests blood and urine samples obtained from astronauts before, during, and after spaceflight. Specific proteins and chemicals in the samples are used as biomarkers, or indicators of health. Post-flight analysis yields a database of samples and test results which scientists can use to study the effects of spaceflight on the body.
Twins Study is an integrated compilation of ten different studies led by multiple PIs at multiple centers.  The studies take advantage of a unique opportunity to look at the effects of space travel on identical twins, one of whom experiences space travel for one year; the other remains earth-bound for that same year.  The experiment studies changes in the human body in the fields of genetics, psychology, physiology, microbiology, and immunology.
The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
Individualized Real-Time Neurocognitive Assessment Toolkit for Space Flight Fatigue (Cognition) is a battery of tests that measures how spaceflight-related physical changes, such as microgravity and lack of sleep, can affect cognitive performance. Cognition includes ten brief computerized tests that cover a wide range of cognitive functions and provides immediate feedback on current and past test results. The software allows for real-time measurement of cognitive performance while in space.
Reaction Self-Test is a portable, five-minute task that enables astronauts to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while in space. Sleep restrictions and residual effects from sleep medications, slam shifts that change the sleep/wake cycle, and effects from spacewalks can cause fatigue and degrade astronaut performance. Periodically during the mission, and in association with major events, an astronaut performs a reaction-time test on a computer to measure changes in responses.

Veggie Hardware Validation Test (Veg-01): Lindgren added water to the plant pillows and root mat. He then took photos and downlinked for ground teams to evaluate the status of the plants.  The primary goal of the Veg-01 testing is to demonstrate plant growth in the Veggie hardware using lettuce as a test species. Plants will be grown in two different sizes of arcillite, a calcined clay media. This test will help compare root zones of the two media sizes to determine water and root distribution in the different sized particles to provide recommendations for future Veggie investigations. Shoot samples will provide information on growth anomalies when compared with ground controls and information on microbial growth and food safety. Photographs will be used to assess plant growth rates and plant health. A data logger will record the environment within the Veggie hardware. Crew questionnaires will provide insight into the appropriateness and thoroughness of the crew procedures for Veggie hardware and plant growth operations.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove and Replace (R&R) Procedure Review: Due to the loss of Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3017 on SpaceX (SpX)-7, the EVA community was directed to return EMU 3011 to operational status. The EMU was originally taken out of service due to corroded bearings in the FPS which was removed and not replaced. Today the crew reviewed FPS R&R procedures followed by a conference with ground teams to address questions in preparation for tomorrow’s planned gas trap and Water Line Vent Tube Assembly (WLVTA) R&Rs. Lindgren also gathered tools for configuration/staging of tools and hardware prior to starting the maintenance activities tomorrow.
Japanese Experiment Module (JPM) Stowage Consolidation: Yui removed trash and gathered hardware to be stowed under the JEM Airlock in preparation of the arrival of H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)5. He also consolidated Cargo Transfer Bags (CTBs) to optimize JEM stowage configuration. 

