
Dragon Operations:  The crew was scheduled to ingress and configure Dragon for on-orbit operations today, however, these tasks were completed yesterday. Today they transferred critical cargo and unpacked double cold bags to retrieve science as well as transferring 2 “Polar” freezers from Dragon into the EXPRESS rack locations that had been prepared for them. 
Mouse Epigenetics Setup Operations: Crewmembers reconfigured the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) to establish an alternate power resource from the Utility Outlet Panel (UOP) and transferred the mice from the Transportation Cage Unit (which was used to house them during launch) into the Mouse Habitat Cage Units onboard ISS. The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space and also examines changes in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space.
Heart Cells Habitat Preparation and Sample Installation: Today, the Heart Cells samples were removed from the SpaceX-9 Dragon capsule and transferred to SABL 2.  The crew then prepared for operations in SABL 1 by configuring the carbon dioxide (CO2) Incubator Controller and installing hardware inside.  The samples were placed in active temperature and CO2 control when they were transferred from SABL 2 into SABL 1. The Heart Cells investigation studies the human heart, specifically how heart muscle tissue contracts, grows and changes (gene expression) in microgravity and how those changes vary between subjects. Understanding how heart muscle cells, or cardiomyocytes, change in space improves efforts for studying disease, screening drugs and conducting cell replacement therapy for future space missions.
NanoRacks Platform-1 Module Install: Six NanoRack Modules were installed on NanoRacks Platform 1. NanoRacks Modules 41 (Awty-BE-HDPE Rad Shielding), 43 (Slime Mold), and 44 (Awty-Yeast Cell Growth in a Microgravity Environment) were configured on the left side of the NanoRack Platform and Modules 45 (Duchesne-Light Wavelengths on Algae Production), 46 (Duchesne-Plant Growth Chamber), and 69 (Silver Electrolysis/ Eagelcrest) were configured on the right side. The NanoRack Platform is a multipurpose research facility that supports NanoRacks Modules by providing power and data transfer capabilities to operate investigations in microgravity.
NanoRacks Module 9: The crew performed tasks for the NanoRack Module-9 experiment by activating, deactivating, and shaking the mixture tubes. This experiment is a collection of student research projects utilizing the NanoRacks Mixsticks. Student teams from across the United States design their own experiments using flight approved fluids and materials. 
Fluids Integration Rack (FIR) RPC trip troubleshooting – RPCM LA2A3B-G RPC-2 (FIR Main Power) tripped in late June.  The payload that was running inside FIR at the time (MicroChannel Diffusion) was able to complete their operations on auxiliary power.  Troubleshooting on the RPC trip was completed today.  FIR was initially powered using auxiliary power, but gradually transitioned to main power. FIR was then deactivated and re-activated in a nominal configuration. No RPC trips were seen throughout the troubleshooting. FIR was deactivated upon completion. There are currently no liens on future use of FIR main power.

