
Payloads:
Advanced Nano Step: Sample Cartridges, specimen Cell4, and the Nano Step Circuit Box were installed into the Solution Crystallization Observation Facility (SCOF). The Temp Logger data was transferred to Payload Laptop Terminal 4 (PLT4). The Effects of Impurities on Perfection of Protein Crystals, Partition Functions, and Growth Mechanisms (Advanced Nano Step) experiment monitors and records how the incorporation of specific impurity molecules affects the development and quality of protein crystals, as they grow in a quartz cell aboard the ISS. The crystals grown on the ISS are returned to Earth and characterized using synchrotron X-ray diffraction. The protein crystal and impurity interactions are managed and monitored jointly by both scientists on the ground and the ISS crew.
Solid Combustion Experiment Module (FLARE): SCEM Experiment Insert 2 was swapped out and Igniter 2 was exchanged. Fundamental Research on International Standard of Fire Safety in Space – Base for Safety of Future Manned Missions (FLARE), a JAXA investigation, explores the flammability of materials in microgravity. Various solid fuels are burned under different conditions and observed inside a flow tunnel. Microgravity significantly affects combustion phenomena and results are expected to contribute to the improvement of fire safety in space.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The FOP-2 Calibration Probe was removed, and sample Preform and Fiber Spool Module/Cartridges were installed. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN. Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest that ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth. Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
Forward Osmosis Membrane (FOM): A 24-hour check of membrane 1 was performed, photographed, and stowed for return. Membrane 2 will be activated later this week. Water has some of the highest mass of any component needed for space travel, and effective recovery of potable water from wastewater is critical for life support and environmental health on long-term missions. Assessing the Performance of Urease-phospholipid Reactive Forward Osmosis Membranes for Water Reclamation Aboard the ISS (FOM) tests reactive membranes for water reclamation in microgravity as compared to 1g on Earth. These membranes show promise on the ground, but their performance must be evaluated in microgravity to advance the technology. 
Immunosenescence: Media change was performed on the remaining cells of Sample B. The Microscope was deployed using SABL-2 power and images were taken on each of the three BioCells. Microgravity causes changes in human immune cells that resemble aging, but happen faster than actual aging. Microgravity as a Model for Immunological Senescence and its Impact on Tissue Stem Cells and Regeneration (Immunosenescence) studies the effects of microgravity on cells involved in tissue regeneration and whether recovery occurs post-flight. Results could provide insight into whether effects of the biological aging process can be reversed.
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL): The MSL Vacuum Sensor combination package was removed and replaced, and the water lines were checked out. The MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. The MSL can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules. In this way many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing, new or improved materials.
Systems:
RS Extravehicular Activity (EVA) ESA Preparations: Crewmember Samantha Cristoforetti continued preparation activities for the upcoming RS EVA ESA, beginning with an updated EVA timeline review, and followed by Orlan drink bag refill/install and moleskin gathering. The Russian EVA is planned for Thursday, July 21.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Total Organic Carbon Analyzer (TOCA) Water Recovery System (WRS) Sample Analysis & Data Record: The crew performed an analysis of the Water Processing Assembly (WPA) using the TOCA. The TOCA unit oxidizes organic carbon species present in the water to carbon dioxide gas and measures the concentration using nondispersive infrared spectroscopy. Analysis of the potable water using the TOCA occurs on a weekly basis. The crew also changed out the Waste Water Bag (WWB).

