
Payloads:
Cold Atom Lab (CAL): Leaking compression fittings were tightened on the Cold Atom Lab MTL Jumper hoses and routine maintenance was performed on the Parker Quick Disconnect (QD) hardware. The CAL produces clouds of atoms that are chilled to about one ten billionth of a degree above absolute zero — much colder than the average temperature of deep space. At these low temperatures, atoms have almost no motion, allowing scientists to study fundamental behaviors and quantum characteristics that are difficult or impossible to probe at higher temperatures. In microgravity, researchers may be able to achieve even colder temperatures than what is possible on the ground, and observe these cold atom clouds for longer periods of time.
Electro-static Levitation Furnace (ELF): The previous sample was removed from the experiment volume of the Electrostatic Levitation Furnace and a new Sample Holder Cartridge was inserted. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate/melt/solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using the Electrostatic Levitation method. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured, and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved. The ELF is located in the JEM Multipurpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) in Kibo.
Genes in Space-9 (GIS-9): The dedicated GIS-9 iPad was charged prior to upcoming operations. Cell-free technology is a platform for protein production that does not include living cells. GIS-9 evaluates two approaches for using this technology in microgravity: cell-free protein production and biosensors that can detect specific target molecules. The technology could provide a portable, low-resource, and low-cost tool with potential applications for medical diagnostics, on-demand production of medicine and vaccines, and environmental monitoring on future space missions.
Immunosenescence: Media was changed for each of the samples housed in the three Immunosenescence BioCells. Microgravity as a Model for Immunological Senescence and its Impact on Tissue Stem Cells and Regeneration (Immunosenescence) studies the effects of microgravity on cells involved in tissue regeneration and whether recovery occurs post-flight. Results could provide insight into whether effects of the biological aging process can be reversed.
Materials International Space Station Experiment-16 (MISSE-16): Material Science Containers (MSC) for MISSE-16 and MISSE Transfer Tray (MTT) Hardware were gathered in support of JEM airlock installation operations. MISSE-16 is part of a suite of experiments that test how space affects a variety of materials and components. This mission tests a fabric with imbedded sensors, 3D printed polymers, spacecraft materials, radiation protection biomaterials, BioPellets made from dried microbes, paraffin wax thermal protection, and thin solar cells. If able to stand up to the harsh environment outside the ISS, these materials could help improve equipment for future space exploration.
Fixed radio frequency identification (RFID) Smart Sensing: Crew power cycled non-responsive RFID Embers sensors. RFID readers and antennas have operated on the ISS since 2017 and a reader and antennas were installed on a robotic free-flying Astrobee in January 2021. RFID-Enabled Autonomous Logistics Management-3 (REALM-3) (RFID Smart Sensing) builds on this work, extending reach of RFID signals behind stowage racks and placing motion sensors imbedded in RFID tags on rack doors. Results could increase the accuracy of RFID inventory and item location.
Space Fibers-3: Crew completed installation of Space Fibers-3 hardware in the MSG. Manufacturing Fiber Optic Cable in Microgravity (Space Fibers) evaluates a method for producing fiber optic cable from a blend of zirconium, barium, lanthanum, sodium, and aluminum, called ZBLAN, in space. ZBLAN produces glass one hundred times more transparent than silica-based glass, exceptional for fiber optics. Microgravity suppresses mechanisms that commonly degrade fiber, and previous studies showed improved properties in fiber drawn in microgravity compared to that fabricated on the ground.
TangoLab Mission-27: The Powered Ascent Utility Locker (PAUL) was powered down and TangoLab Mission-27 cube UFLA_TOC02 (Muscle Tissue on Chip)was removed for photography and then placed into the ICEBERG-2 cold stowage facility. Muscle Tissue on Chip will test the feasibility of microfluidic devices embedded with muscle bundles derived from human cells to track muscle function over time in a space environment.
Systems:
Countermeasures System (CMS) Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Maintenance: Today, the crew evacuated the ARED Cylinder Flywheel and Vacuum Slider Track. They also tightened and torqued set screws within the ARED Cylinder Flywheel and Main Arm Fasteners.
Hardware Power Cycling: Several components were power cycled today in an effort to recover various issues related to hardware performance, including the Atmosphere Revitalization System Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS), the Environmental Health System (EHS) Air Quality Monitoring (AQM), and the Radio Frequency Identification Logistics (RFID).
Node 3 Nadir Hatch Seal Inspection: A detailed inspection of two areas of interest on the Node 3 Nadir Hatch Seal was performed and photos of the new Node 3 Nadir Hatch Seal Cover were taken. The hatch seal cover is designed to keep hatch seals free of debris and remove the need for periodic cleanings by the crew.

