
51 Soyuz (51S) Launch and Dock: 51S launched today at 10:41 am CDT carrying Sergey Ryazanskiy, Paolo Nespoli and Randolph Bresnik to the ISS. Docking occurred at 4:54 pm CDT with hatch opening at 6:58 pm CDT. There will be 4 USOS crew members on the ISS until 50S undocks on September 2.
Electrostatic Levitation Furnace (ELF):  The crew exchanged sample holders in the ELF and removed a lost sample in the ELF chamber. The ELF is an experimental facility designed to levitate, melt and solidify materials by containerless processing techniques using electrostatic levitation. With this facility, thermophysical properties of high temperature melts can be measured and solidification from deeply undercooled melts can be achieved.
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis:  The crew set up hardware, reviewed materials and completed preparations for 4 days of operations scheduled to begin Sunday. Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system, it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight. 
Microbial Tracking-2 (MT-2):  The crew collected saliva samples for the Microbial Tracking-2 investigation and placed them inside a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI).  After the samples are returned to Earth, a molecular analysis of the RNA and DNA will be conducted to identify the specific microbes that are present on ISS.  MT-2 monitors the different types of microbes that are present on ISS over a 1-year period and how they change over time.
Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation and Stabilization (CEVIS) Ratcheting Noise: This morning the crew reported a ratcheting noise coming from CEVIS and provided audio/video of the noise for ground review.  While recording the audio/video, the noise stopped.  The crew performed a checkout using both programming and manual modes and reported nominal performance.  Teams discussed the noise and additional crew actions were requested to secure the CEVIS belt from potential slippage and to gain additional data.  CEVIS remains GO for exercise at this time.
Mobile Servicing System (MSS) Operations: Yesterday afternoon Robotic Ground Controllers powered up the MSS and maneuvered the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) and the Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM) Body to perform a video and imagery survey of the SPDM Latching End Effector (LEE) snare cables using the P1 Lower Outboard (LOOB) External High Definition Camera (EHDC).  They then maneuvered the SSRMS to a translate position in preparation for the Mobile Transporter (MT) translation to Worksite 8 on July 31.

