
Payloads:
Astrobee-Zero Robotics: Astrobee Free Flyers were prepared in the JEM and the crew assisted the ground team in conducting multiple test runs of autonomous robotic maneuvering in support of a student robotics competition dry run. For Astrobee-Zero Robotics, students write software to control one of the space station’s Astrobee free-flying robots. The first several rounds of the competition, co-led by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Innovation Learning Center, and many collaborators, use an online simulation. Finalists have their code downloaded by NASA to the Astrobee platform and observe its performance. The experience helps inspire the next generation of scientists, engineers, and explorers.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): Covers were placed over the CBEF facility units, the CBEF-1G Vent Fan cable was demated, and Sensor 1 was replaced by Sensor 2. The CBEF fans were then checked out in preparation for upcoming missions. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) subrack facility; it is an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo (living cell) Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
Forward Osmosis Membrane (FOM): The crew performed a 24 hour check of membrane 2 and stowed samples and hardware for return. This completes all activities for the FOM experiment. Water has some of the highest mass of any component needed for space travel, and effective recovery of potable water from wastewater is critical for life support and environmental health on long-term missions. Assessing the Performance of Urease-phospholipid Reactive Forward Osmosis Membranes for Water Reclamation Aboard the ISS (FOM) tests reactive membranes for water reclamation in microgravity as compared to 1g on Earth. These membranes show promise on the ground, but their performance must be evaluated in microgravity to advance the technology.
Fiber Optic Production-2 (FOP-2): The FOP-2 sample preform and fiber spool module/cartridges were exchanged. FOP-2 builds on previous work to manufacture commercial optical fibers in microgravity using a blend of elements called ZBLAN. Earlier theoretical and experimental studies suggest that ZBLAN optical fibers produced in microgravity exhibit qualities superior to those of fibers produced on Earth. Results from FOP-2 could help further verify these studies and guide manufacture of high value optical fiber aboard the space station for commercial use.
Genes in Space-9 (GIS-9): Sample S/N 04 photographs were taken, and samples were prepared for return. Cell-free technology is a platform for protein production that does not include living cells. GIS-9 evaluates two approaches for using this technology in microgravity: cell-free protein production and biosensors that can detect specific target molecules. The technology could provide a portable, low-resource, and low-cost tool with potential applications for medical diagnostics, on-demand production of medicine and vaccines, and environmental monitoring on future space missions.
Materials Science Laboratory (MSL): Gas and vacuum lines on MSRR MSL were verified. The MSL is used for basic materials research in the microgravity environment of the ISS. The MSL can accommodate and support diverse Experiment Modules. In this way many material types, such as metals, alloys, polymers, semiconductors, ceramics, crystals, and glasses, can be studied to discover new applications for existing materials and new or improved materials.
Protein Manufacturing: Protein Manufacturing experiment hardware was inserted into the Space Automated Bioproducts Laboratory (SABL) Incubator. Protein Manufacturing demonstrates bioreactor technology for converting inedible plant materials and other wastes into high-protein, edible fungal biomats in microgravity. The ability to produce fresh food in space reduces the amount of prepackaged food that must be taken along on missions, reducing launch mass and storage needs. This technology could contribute to the success of future human space exploration missions.
Systems:
Environmental Health System (EHS) Air Quality Monitor (AQM) Vent Vacuum: As part of regular preventive maintenance, the EHS AQM vents were cleaned to remove dust buildup. The AQM is part of the EHS as an Intravehicular Activity (IVA) atmospheric monitor that is used to detect and measure Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) onboard the ISS.
In-Flight Maintenance (IFM) Vestibule Barrier Assembly (VBA) Radial Port Closeout R&R: The crew installed a new VBA in crew-preferred USOS Radial Port vestibule locations to replace old and degraded VBAs.
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill Initiation and Termination: Today, the crew initiated a manual fill of the WHC EДВ-СВ (Water Container) using a Post-Flight Analysis Bag to capture any pressure relief to protect the dose pump. The ЕДВ-CB is intended for short-term storage and manual water transportation between facilities. After successfully filling the EДВ-СВ, the crew returned the WHC to nominal use. The EDV was also swapped in the Offload EDV spot of the Urine Transfer System (UTS).
EHS Compound Specific Analyzer – Combustion Products (CSA-CPs) Extended Maintenance: Today, the crew replaced the battery packs in all CSA-CPs and calibrated the units. The CSA-CPs provide real-time readings following a combustion event and subsequent clean-up efforts. The CSA-CPs are also used for continuous monitoring of carbon monoxide levels in the ISS.
Post-Extravehicular Activity (EVA): Following yesterday’s successful RS EVA ESA, crew completed several post-EVA activities. The Lithium-Ion Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (LREBA) was uninstalled from the Orlan suit, US EVA tethers were inspected, EVA tools were transferred, Orlan water lines were dried, and a post-EVA conference was completed.

