
Cardio Ox Ultrasound and Blood Pressure (BP) Operations: With Commander (CDR) Swanson as operator, Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman collected ultrasound and BP data for the Flight Day (FD) 60 Cardio Ox investigation. The goal of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15, and 60 after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
Synchronized Position Hold, Engage, Reorient, Experimental Satellites (SPHERES) Vertigo: Swanson and FE-6 Gerst set up the Vertigo goggles and loaded specific test sessions into the Vertigo goggles and SPHERES satellites. They then executed a test session. The test of the SPHERES sensors and actuators was unsuccessful, resulting in the inability to use the SPHERES global metrology. The global metrology is used to measure the position and attitude of the satellites. Ground teams will review the data to determine a forward plan for the global metrology. The SPHERES Vertigo investigation uses the SPHERES facility free-flying satellites and is designed to demonstrate and test, in a complex environment, enhanced technologies and techniques related to visual inspection and navigation. This effort incorporates hardware and software that enables multiple SPHERES to construct three dimensional (3D) models of a target object. Additionally, this investigation explores how well the SPHERES free-flyers then perform relative navigation solely by reference to these 3D models.
Force Shoes: Wiseman conducted an Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) exercise session using the Force Shoes. The data from the ARED exercise session will be used to measure the loads experienced during ARED exercise.
Skin-B: Swanson conducted his fifth Skin-B data collection using the Tewameter probe to measure the skin barrier function; the Visioscan Camera to measure skin surface topography; and the Corneometer probe to measure skin hydration. The Skin-B experiment will improve understanding of skin aging, which is slow on Earth but very much accelerated in space. This will also provide insights into the aging process in other (similar) bodily tissues in general. The data could help in determining impact on astronauts on future missions to the Moon and Mars for example where environmental conditions are more challenging.
NanoRacks Multi-Gas Monitor: Wiseman verified functionality of the NanoRacks Multi-Gas Monitor by testing the ammonia sensor using an ammonia inhalant. Afterward, the NanoRacks Multi-Gas Monitor was returned back to NanoRacks Platform-2.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Canada1 (C1): Wiseman homogenized a cuvette sample and took pictures of the sample after mixing. The camera intervalometer was set to take images at a regular interval. The BCAT-C1 experiment will study nano-scale particles dispersed in liquid, known as a colloidal suspension, commonly found in such commercial commodities as paint, electronic polishing compounds and food products. These suspensions will have the unique property that the particles will phase separate (like oil and water) and the particles will self-assemble into crystals that interact strongly with light (like opal). Photographing these samples in microgravity will allow the measurement of these processes while avoiding the effects of particle sinking due to gravity. This study will allow the development of new insights into this important material process.
Crew Medical Officer (CMO) On-Board Training (OBT): Swanson performed a session of this OBT which is a Computer Based Training (CBT) module and is performed periodically to maintain proficiency for designated CMOs. 

