
Body Measures Operations: Two crewmembers, one as the subject and the other providing operator assistance, completed a Body Measures data collection session that began last week. They set up cameras and video, then collected the Neutral Body Posture video and stow the equipment. NASA is collecting in-flight anthropometric data (body measurements) to assess the impact of physical body shape and size changes on suit sizing. Still and video imagery is captured and segmental length, height, depth, and circumference data for all body segments (chest, waist, hip, arms, legs, etc.) from astronauts is taken before, during and after their flight missions. 
Heart Cells Media Change Operations: To provide nutrients to the Heart Cells and encourage continued cell health, the crew changed the media in the Multiwell BioCell for Heart Cells. The investigation studies the human heart, specifically how heart muscle tissue contracts, grows and changes (gene expression) in microgravity and how those changes vary among subjects. Understanding how heart muscle cells, or cardiomyocytes, change in space improves efforts for studying disease, screening drugs and conducting cell replacement therapy for future space missions. 
Material Science Laboratory (MSL) Solidification and Quench Furnace (SQF) Sample Cartridge Exchange 2 #2: The crew removed the MSL SQF sample cartridge, installed the new sample cartridge, and prepared the facility for the next sample run. The MSL can accommodate one Furnace Insert (FI) at a time for experiment processing. Two ESA-developed FIs are presently available: the Low Gradient Furnace (LGF) and the Solidification and Quenching Furnace (SQF), Sample-Cartridge Assemblies (SCAs) for science programs.
NanoRacks (NR) Plate Reader 2 Module-29 Test Plate Insertions: The crew performed an analysis of NanoRacks Module-29 (NanoRacks-Fluorescent Polarization in Microgravity) by sequentially inserting and removing five individual Module -29 test plates to and from the sample tray. Scientists study chemical reactions using fluorescence polarization which produces changes in light when molecules bind together. This technique enables researchers to measure the interactions of proteins with deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or antibodies, and many other biomedical functions. NanoRacks Module -29 validates a commercial Plate Reader instrument that detects changes in light for these types of reactions in a multiwell plate, a flat plate with 384 wells or tiny test tubes, to examine microgravity’s effect on fluorescent polarization which paves the way for advanced biology research and drug development in space.
European Crew Personal Active Dosimeter (EuCPAD) Activation and Checkout: Following yesterday’s EuCPAD installation, today the crew activated the Mobile Units using the ESA Active Dosimeter main unit.  The EuCPAD is an active device worn by ISS crew members on orbit to measure radiation exposure. This device, coupled with other dosimeters in the European Space Agency’s (ESA) Columbus Laboratory, provides radiation dosage information that can be used to support risk assessment and dose management. The goal is to enable the verification of radiation monitoring systems for future medical monitoring of crew members in space.
Airway Monitoring Setup Operations: In preparation for the European Space Agency (ESA) Airway Monitoring experiment scheduled to begin next week, the crew continued hardware gather and setup activities in the US Airlock.  This investigation studies the occurrence and indicators of airway inflammation in crewmembers, using ultra-sensitive gas analyzers to analyze exhaled air. This helps to highlight any health impacts and to maintain crewmember well-being on future human spaceflight missions, especially longer-duration missions to the Moon and Mars where crewmembers will have to be more self-sufficient in highlighting and avoiding such conditions.

Mouse Epigenetics Cage Unit Maintenance: The crew completed standard maintenance activities for the Mouse Epigenetics experiment by refilling water in the Mouse Habitat Cage Unit which is located in the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF). The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space, and also examines changes in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space.
Fluid Shifts Operations: The crew gathered hardware from the US Segment in preparation for next week’s Fluid Shifts setup and operation activities in the Russian Segment. The experiment measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures. 
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: The crew completed maintenance on the Simplified Aid for EVA Rescue (SAFER) and Test Module seals, measured the SAFER regulator pressure under flow and no-flow conditions, performed a leak check and measured the relief valve opening and reseated pressure of the SAFER. They also cleaned out the Airlock by relocating items that will return on SpX-9 as well as items needed to support the Airway Monitoring experiment.

