
43 Soyuz (43S) Launch/Dock: 43S launched at 4:02 PM CDT today and docked at 9:46 PM CDT. Hatch opening occurred at 11:56 PM CDT. With the arrival of Kjell Lindgren, Kimiya Yui and Oleg Kononenko the ISS returns to 6-crew operations. Following crew ingress, the ISS Safety Briefing will be performed to familiarizes the newly arrived crew with potential hazards and safety measures. The crew will also review emergency actions, roles and responsibilities and response to depressurization, fire and toxic events.
Fine Motor Skills: Kelly and Kornienko performed their Flight Day 120 session of Fine Motor Skills today.  In this experiment crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth’s gravity. The goal of the experiment is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
Space Headaches: Yui and Lindgren will perform their first Space Headaches questionnaire following their arrival on ISS.  They will complete the questionnaire daily for their first week on orbit then once per week for the remainder of their mission. Headaches can be a common complaint during spaceflight. The Space Headaches experiment improves the understanding of such conditions which helps in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improve the well-being and performance of crew members in orbit. This can also improve the knowledge of similar conditions on Earth.
Russian Segment (RS) Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Kelly gathered and transferred US tools in preparation for RS EVA #41 currently planned for August 10.  Battery maintenance for Rechargeable EVA Battery Assemblies (REBA), Helmet Lights (HL), and Pistol Grip Tools (PGT) started last week will conclude this Friday.

