
Payloads
Droplet Formation Study (DFS):  The crew performed the setup and initiation of recording for additional runs of the DFS investigation, followed by data archival to Blue-ray disc.  Droplet Formation Studies in Microgravity (Droplet Formation Study, or more simply DFS) evaluates water droplet formation and water flow of Delta Faucet’s H2Okinetic shower head technology.  To conserve water, flow rates in shower devices have been reduced, but this lower flow rate also reduces the effectiveness of these devices and often causes consumers to take longer showers, undermining the goal of using less water. Gravity’s full effects on formation of water droplet size are unknown, and research in microgravity could help improve the technology, creating better performance and improved user experience while conserving water and energy.
ElectroMagnetic Levitator (EML): The crew performed steps needed to remove the EML sample chamber, high speed camera, and vacuum/vent hose.  Following this, they took photos to document this configuration.  The EML is a 360 kg multi-user facility designed for containerless materials processing in space. It supports research in the areas of meta-stable states and phases along with the measurement of highly accurate thermophysical properties of liquid metallic alloys at high temperatures.  EML can accommodate up to 18 samples, each 5 to 8 mm in size.  Heating rates of up to 100 Kelvin per second can be achieved with a maximum temperature of 2,100°C.
Fluids Integrated Rack/Light Microscopy Module (FIR/LMM)/Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-4 (ACE-T4):  The crew removed the LMM optical target and other associated CDM (Capillary-Driven Microfluidics) hardware, and installed the hardware needed to support ACE-T4 module s/n 2016.  Introducing disorder to a crystalline system in a controlled way can form glass. Advanced Colloids Experiment-Temperature-4 (ACE-T-4) examines the transition of an ordered crystal to a disordered glass to determine how increasing disorder affects structural and dynamic properties. The investigation controls disorder by controlling temperature in a series of samples and observes the microscopic transition in three dimensions.
Plant Habitat-02:  The crew removed the growth chamber from the Plant Hab facility, removed and replaced one of the ECS (Environmental Control System) units, then reassembled the Plant Hab facility and installed it back into its rack location.  Plant Hab-02 will be used to support science samples arriving on NG-14.  Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants.
Systems 
Dragon Return Preparations: In preparation for Dragon return, the crew performed a suit checkout, prepacked cargo and held a conference with the ground team. As part of the suit check, the crew donned their suits to confirm the suit fit and performed earpiece checks using Dragon audio. The crew continued to perform Dragon cargo ops throughout the day. Ground teams estimate approximately 4 hours remain to complete available cargo ops.
Progress 75P ISS Reboost: This morning at 8:57 AM CT, the ISS completed a 5 minute 36 second reboost using 75P thrusters.  The purpose of the reboost was to start phasing for 62S landing and 63S launch in October and increased the ISS velocity by 0.65 meters per second (m/s).    
Cabin Fan Assembly 1 (CFA1) Remove and Replace (R&R): CFA1 has operated continuously and exceeded its expected lifetime by nearly three times. The R&R of the fan requires equipment in the Columbus module to be removed to allow rack tilting and is subdivided into three consecutive days of tasks. Today the crew prepared the COL1D1 rack for tilting by deinstalling the EML Sample Chamber and EML High Speed Camera which were both temporarily stowed in COL1D3. Tomorrow the crew will tilt the rack to replace the cabin fan. 

