
Boeing CST-100 Crewed Flight Test (CFT): Today, the CFT crew assisted the ISS crew by performing stowage clearing operations to prepare for the ArgUS installation operations. They also uploaded new software into the Microgravity Science Glovebox (MSG) Laptop Computer (MLC).
Payloads:
JEM Internal Ball Camera 2: The JEM Internal Ball Camera Robot 2 was setup and a checkout was performed using different docking station locations. More about this investigation can be found here.
MSG: The MLC was uploaded with new software. More about this facility can be found here.
Systems:
ArgUS Preparation Operations: Today, the crew performed several stowage operations in the Node 3 Endcone and the NanoRacks Airlock (NRAL). The ArgUS adaptor was installed on the JEM Airlock (JEMAL) slide table in preparation for tomorrow, when a group of sub-payloads will be installed. ArGUS is a payload adapter that, when attached to the external platform Bartolomeo, allows multiple payloads to fit into one Bartolomeo payload slot.  
Crew Quarters (CQ) Deep Cleaning: Today, the crew donned the Ghost Cam-mounted headstrap before performing a deep clean of both the deck and overhead CQs within Node 2. They cleaned the Intake and Exhaust Ducts, Fans, and Airflow Sensors.  Afterwards, they removed the Guide Vanes and cleaned the Intake Airflow Outlet region.
ISS Safety Video Survey: The crew performed a video survey of Node 2, Columbus, and JPM. The ISS Safety Video Survey involves obtaining video of the interior volume that allows the ground team to assess the current vehicle configuration and to identify any areas of concern related to ventilation blockage, flammability hazards, emergency egress paths, access to fire ports, and safety equipment.  The Safety Video Survey is performed approximately every six months.
Node 2 Stowage Management: The crew took inventory of and reorganized stowage in Node 2. Several ISS crew members managed stowage, including disposal of unneeded common trash and relocating items as needed for the betterment of day-to-day operations.
