
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 Launch:  ATV-5 George Lemaitre launched today at 6:47pm CDT from Kourou, French Guiana.  Ascent was nominal.  Solar array and antenna deployment occurred on schedule.  The cargo vehicle is scheduled to dock to the ISS Service Module aft port on August 12.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst conducted flame tests for the BASS-II investigation which examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. Today, three tests were completed using rods; two tests were completed using opposed airflow and one with concurrent flow. The experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Force Shoes: Gerst conducted an Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) exercise session using the Force Shoes. The data from the ARED exercise session will be used to measure the loads experienced during ARED exercise.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) Maintenance: Commander (CDR) Swanson conducted periodic CBEF maintenance by removing two Plant Experiment Units (PEUs) and one Measurement Experiment Unit (MEU) B from the CBEF incubator micro-gravity unit.
European Modular Cultivation System (EMCS) Rotor Based Life Support System (RBLSS) Module Replacement: Swanson replaced one RBLSS module on Rotor A and cleaned the rotors for belt debris. He also replaced the Gas Removal Module and installed three water pump tubes on the EMCS RBLSS. These activities are in preparation Seedling Growth-2, a joint NASA-European Space Agency (ESA) investigation, that will be delivered on SpX-4.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Maintenance: Swanson and Wiseman continued yesterday’s EMU maintenance activities. Today they performed loop scrub and Sublimator Flange Inspection on EMUs 3003 and 3010. Tomorrow they will perform water conductivity measurements on EMUs 3005 and 3011 and prepare the Airlock to support EVA operations. 

