
66 Progress (66P) Undock: 66P undocked from Docking Compartment (DC)-1 today at 12:45 pm CDT. Deorbit burn will occur at 3:58 pm CDT with destructive re-entry at 4:35 pm CDT.
Efficacy and Metabolism of Azonafide Antibody-Drug Conjugates in Microgravity (ADCs in Microgravity):  With assistance from the Payload Developer this morning, the crew viewed ADC cells with a microscope and injected media into the Multiwall BioCells. Later today the crew will repeat these steps with a second set of samples. The ADCs in Microgravity investigation evaluates new antibody-drug conjugates that combine an immune-activating drug with antibodies in order to target only cancer cells, increasing the effectiveness of chemotherapy and reducing its side effects.  In microgravity, cancer cells grow in three-dimensional, spheroid structures that closely resemble their form in the human body, allowing for better drug testing. This investigation may accelerate development of targeted therapies for cancer patients.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Camera Robot:  The crew set up the JEM Camera Robot and the ground performed a set of checkout steps. This device is a free-flying camera robot that provides real time video downlink and photographs.  It is expected to reduce the crew time requirements to support video recording of activities, especially at the blind spot of existing JEM internal cameras.
Japanese Experiment Module Airlock (JEMAL) Operations:  The crew pressurized the JEMAL and performed a leak check. They also gathered Handhold Experiment Platform (HXP) items to support changeout of samples on the Exposed Experiment Handhold Attachment Mechanism 1 (ExHAM 1) this Friday after the ExHAM 1 is retrieved from the JEM Exposed Facility.
Sprint Ultrasound 2:  For their Flight Day 90 Sprint Ultrasound 2 session, a crewmember, with support from an operator, configured the Ultrasound 2, placed reference marks on the calf and thigh of their right leg, donned the thigh and calf guides, and performed thigh and calf scans with remote guidance from the Sprint ground team. Ultrasound scans are used to evaluate spaceflight-induced changes in the muscle volume. The Sprint investigation evaluates the use of high intensity, low volume exercise training to minimize loss of muscle, bone, and cardiovascular function in ISS crewmembers during long-duration missions.
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Cable Arm Rope (CAR) Flip: Use of the exercise rope during cable exercises causes a portion of the CARs to experience cyclic flexural loads during operations. To mitigate this issue, the crew removed, flipped and reinstalled the CARs. This results in the ropes being “pre-stretched” which will double the life of the CARs, reducing the number of ropes that need to be built, tested and flown in the future.

