
New Status:
Robonaut Tele-operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Nyberg, in cooperation with the Robonaut Principal Investigator (PI), performed Robonaut Tele-operations today. Nyberg activated Robonaut and the Robonaut Tele-operation System (RTS) which consists of 3D visor, vest and gloves.  These hardware items worn by the operator contain specialized sensors capable of detecting the motion of the operator by mounting a tracking bar. The sensors transmit operator movements to a computer that works through the existing Robonaut control software to drive the robot in fashion that mimics the motion of the operator.  Feedback from the robot is in the form of left/right video cameras from Robonaut that feed direct video to a video display helmet that is worn by the operator. The PI guided Nyberg in performing the tasks, having Robonaut mimic those tasks on the Robonaut task-board. Robonaut is a dexterous humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, exhibit greater endurance than humans and react safely when bumped or interacted with in a way that was not expected.
Advanced Colloids Experiment (ACE) Sample Prep: FE-3 Cassidy installed the fifth of ten samples of the ACE experiment. ACE is a series of microscopic imaging investigations that uses the microgravity environment to examine flow characteristics and the evolution and ordering effects within a group of colloidal materials.
Biolab Microscope Installation: FE-5 Parmitano installed the Biolab Microscope into the Biolab facility.  The microscope was removed in 2011 and returned to the ground for refurbishment.  Following today’s installation, ground controllers attempted to activate the microscope from the ground with no success. A troubleshooting plan is in work.  Biolab is a multi-user research facility located in the ESA Columbus module that enables scientists to study the effects of microgravity and space radiation on unicellular and multicellular organisms, including bacteria, insects, protists (simple eukaryotic organisms), seeds and cells.
Multi-Purpose Small Payload Rack (MSPR) Microscope Checkout: Nyberg activated the MSPR Fluorescence Microscope and installed a test sample for the initial functional checkout. The checkout was performed from the ground, and is in preparation for the Aniso Tubule experiment flying on H-II Transfer Vehicle (HTV)-4 in August.

