
59 Soyuz Launch/Dock: 59S launched on Saturday, July 20, from Baikonur Cosmodrome at 11:28 AM CT carrying Aleksandr Skvortsov, Luca Parmitano and Andrew Morgan to the ISS. Docking to the SM aft port occurred at 5:50 PM CT with hatch opening at 8:04 PM CT. Following hatch opening, all 6 crewmembers performed the ISS Crew Safety Briefing during which the 58S crew familiarized the 59S crew with potential hazards and available safety measures. Plans were reviewed for emergency actions, roles and responsibilities in response to depressurization, fire and toxic release hazards.
The ISS Experience: Over the weekend, the crew used the ISS Experience Z-Camera and recorded an hour of the 59S crew ingress. The ISS Experience creates a virtual reality film documenting daily life aboard the ISS. The 8 to 10 minute videos created from footage taken during the six-month investigation cover different aspects of crew life, execution of science aboard the station, and the international partnerships involved. The ISS Experience uses a Z-CAM V1 Pro Cinematic Virtual Reality (VR) 360-degree camera with nine 190° fisheye lenses.
Actiwatch Spectrum: Following arrival on the Station, the 59S crewmembers donned Actiwatches. The Actiwatch Spectrum is a waterproof, nonintrusive, sleep-wake monitor worn on the wrist of a crewmember. The device contains an accelerometer for measuring motion and color sensitive photodiodes (a photodetector capable of converting light into voltage) for monitoring ambient lighting. Together, these capabilities enable the Actiwatch Spectrum to be used to analyze circadian rhythms, sleep-wake patterns, and activity.
Dose Distribution Inside the ISS – 3D (DOSIS 3D): The crew deployed the eleven DOSIS-3D dosimeters in the Columbus module. This experiment uses active and passive detectors to determine the radiation doses inside the ISS and provides documentation of the actual nature and distribution of the radiation fields. A concise three dimensional dose distribution map of all the segments of the ISS will be developed based on this data and data from JAXA and NASA monitoring devices.
Combustion Integration Rack (CIR)/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME)/Flame Design: The crew replaced N2 and O2 bottles in the ACME facility. The Flame Design investigation studies the production and control of soot in order to optimize oxygen-enriched combustion and the design of robust, soot-free flames. Soot can adversely affect efficiency, emissions, and equipment lifetime, so this may lead to more efficient and cleaner burner designs. The experiment is conducted with spherical flames of gaseous fuels in the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) as part of the Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (ACME) project.
Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF): The crew installed and set up the humidifiers on both the Micro-G and 1-G CBEF facilities. The CBEF is a Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) sub rack facility; it is an incubator with an artificial gravity generator. CBEF is housed in the Saibo Experiment Rack with the Clean Bench (CB).
Genes in Space-6: The crew acquired swab samples from the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM) and the JAXA JEM module. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage caused by increased exposure to radiation can affect the long-term health of astronauts. Genes in Space-6 determines the optimal DNA repair mechanisms that cells use in the spaceflight environment. The investigation evaluates the entire process in space for the first time by inducing DNA damage in cells and assessing mutation and repair at the molecular level using the miniPCR and the Biomolecule Sequencer tools aboard the space station.
Thermal Amine Scrubber (TAS) Operations: TAS was activated on Saturday following 59 Soyuz arrival but experienced a shutdown Sunday due to blower overcurrent. Node 3 Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) was activated initially, but to improve power balance ground teams proceeded with activating US LAB CDRA which remains operational.  Ground teams are assessing the TAS shutdown.
International Docking Adapter (IDA)3 Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for the upcoming IDA3 EVA, the crew performed the following:

Retractable Equipment Tether (RET) inspection to check for damaged cords.
Photo TV Camera accessories bag audit to verify contents of the bag and take photos of the items for ground review.
NASA Zero-Gravity Lever (NZGL) Familiarization: This is a standard electrical and data EVA connector on the USOS.  The crew reviewed operations and work arounds in the event they have difficulties during the EVA.

Dragon On-Board Training (OBT): In preparation for SpX-18 arrival the crew reviewed Dragon training materials and completed an overview of Dragon attached phase configuration and operations review. SpX-18 is scheduled to launch on July 24 with capture and berthing on July 26.

