
SpaceX (SpX)-18 Launch Status: SpX-18 is scheduled to launch from Cape Canaveral Launch Complex 40 today at 5:24 PM CT carrying ~1680 kg of pressurized cargo and ~530 kg of unpressurized cargo to the ISS. The crew will utilize the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to capture Dragon on Friday, July 26 at ~9:00 AM CT. 
NutrISS: The crew set up the Bioimpedance Device in preparation for upcoming measurements. Long duration spaceflight induces relevant changes in body composition and a loss of body mass. In this investigation, a periodic assessment of body composition (body weight, fat mass, and fat-free mass) during spaceflight aboard the ISS is performed using a dedicated bio-impedance analysis device to allow for the measurement of long-term energy balance modification over time. On the basis of this data, it is hypothesized that an adjusted diet maintaining a near-neutral energy balance, and/or increasing protein, intake can limit microgravity-induced bone and muscle loss of crew members.
PK-4 (Plasma Krystall-4): The crew initiated PK-4 Run #1 that will catch particle clouds inside the Plasma chamber. PK-4 is a scientific collaboration between the ESA and the Roscosmos, performing research in the field of “Complex Plasmas”: low temperature gaseous mixtures composed of ionized gas, neutral gas, and micron-sized particles.
Astrobee: The crew performed a data collection ops which will be used for calibration and localization for future mobility testing. Astrobee is a series of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the ISS. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and accommodate up to three investigations.
Biomolecule Extraction and Sequencing Technology (BEST): The crew initiated the third run by setting up the Biomolecule Sequencer and loading an RNA sample for a 48 hour sequencing run. The BEST investigation studies the use of sequencing for identification of unknown microbial organisms living on the ISS, and how humans, plants and microbes adapt to living on the ISS.
Lab Forward Port Intermodule Ventilation (IMV) Cleaning: The crew performed this regularly scheduled maintenance to inspect and clean the Lab forward port IMV fan and IMV silencers.
Life Support Rack (LSR) Activation: Yesterday, ESA successfully activated LSR and it is currently scrubbing CO2. With the LSR Carbon-Dioxide Concentration Assembly (CCA) in Auto, the Lab Carbon Dioxide Removal Assembly (CDRA) was be deactivated.  Teams are monitoring performance.
Emergency Roles & Responsibilities Review: With the arrival of the 59S crew, yesterday all six crewmembers participated in this required training. Some of the topics covered were crew accountability during an emergency situations, escape vehicle readiness, ISS Commander responsibilities and safe haven plan.

