
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst conducted flame tests for the BASS-II investigation. The concurrent rods were burned as well as flat nomex fabric sample. The BASS-II investigation examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. The BASS-II experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Pro-K Sample Collections: FE-5 Wiseman collected Flight Day (FD) 60 urine and blood samples for the Pro-K investigation. Pro-K investigates dietary countermeasures to lessen bone loss of astronauts. Pro K proposes that a flight diet with a decreased ratio of animal protein to potassium will lead to decreased loss of bone mineral. Pro K has impacts on the definition of nutritional requirements and development of food systems for future exploration missions, and could yield a method of counteracting bone loss that would have virtually no risk of side effects. 
Human Research Facility (HRF) Rack Interface Controller (RIC) Load: Wiseman initiated HRF Rack 2 RIC load to update the software.
Gradient Heating Furnace (GHF) Insulation Resistance Measurement: Gerst collected an insulation resistance measurement on the GHF heating unit. This measurement is in preparation for Semiconductor Alloy Experiment #2, which will be run from the ground. The Alloy Semiconductor investigation aims to develop a clear understanding of how semiconductor materials grow and crystallize in microgravity. The materials studied are also known to be useful as devices which convert heat into electricity (thermoelectrics). These studies may ultimately shed light on how higher quality crystals may be derived from other materials or incorporated into other devices such as solar cells.
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: CDR Swanson removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides, which isolated the rack and allowed ground teams to start another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. This session used 100% iso-octane for the fuel. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Maintenance: Swanson and Wiseman performed ionic and particulate filtration (scrubbing) and biocidal maintenance (iodination) of EMUs 3005 and 3011 and Airlock cooling water loops. Later in the day they completed Sublimator Flange inspections of both suits. They will continue these activities tomorrow with EMU 3003 and 3010 maintenance.

