
77 Progress (77P) and Docking Compartment 1 (DC-1) Departure: Today, 77P and DC-1 undocked from the Service Module (SM) Nadir port at 5:56 AM CT. Following undock, 77P and DC-1 completed a deorbit burn and destructively re-entered Earth’s atmosphere for disposal. This completes the 161-day 77P mission and the 19-year and 313-day DC-1 mission at ISS. DC-1, also known as Pirs, provided a docking port and airlock to the Russian On-orbit Segment (ROS). DC-1 was undocked with 77P to clear the SM Nadir port for the arrival of the Multipurpose Laboratory Module (MLM) which is scheduled to dock to the ISS on Thursday, July 29th.
Payloads
Astrobee: The crew cleared stowage from the Astrobee work volume and the ground performed software updates. Following this, the Astrobee fliers were tasked with mapping of the work volume area. These activities are to prepare for the JAXA Kibo Robo-Pro challenge. Kibo Robot Programming Challenge (Robo-Pro Challenge), also known as Kibo-RPC, allows students to create programs to control Astrobee, a free-flying robot aboard the ISS. This opportunity provides hands-on experience with science, technology, engineering, and mathematics in space and inspires the next generation of explorers. This activity is based on Japan-U.S. cooperation through the Japan-US Open platform Partnership Program (JP-US OP3).
Combustion Integrated Rack/Advanced Combustion via Microgravity Experiments (CIR/ACME): The crew removed a used 100% ethane (CH3-CH3) fuel bottle with a new bottle of the same composition. This will allow the continuation of the Cool Flames Investigation with Gases (CFI-G) part 2 test points. Cool diffusion flames were discovered during droplet combustion experiments aboard the ISS in 2012, and this initiated a rapidly growing field of combustion research. A cool flame is one that burns at about 600 degrees Celsius. A typical candle is about two times hotter, burning at around 1,400 degrees Celsius. Most internal combustion engines are designed using computer models that neglect cool flame chemistry, but ignition and flame propagation in engines depend on cool flame chemistry. Cool flame chemistry also has a significant impact on fuel octane and cetane numbers, whose understanding has large economic consequences.
Investigating the Structure of Paramagnetic Aggregates from Colloidal Ellipsoids (InSPACE-4): The crew performed the steps necessary to initiate experiment runs, with a goal of working through runs 42-45. InSPACE-4 studies the assembly of tiny structures from colloids using magnetic fields. These structures change the properties of the assembled material, such as its mechanical response to or interaction with light and heat. Microgravity allows observation of these assembly processes free of confining sample walls and sedimentation and during timescales not possible using simulated microgravity. Results could provide insight into how to harness nanoparticles to fabricate and manufacture new materials.
Plant Water Management 3 & 4 (PWM 3 & 4): In preparation for science operations later this week, the crew prepared the Maintenance Work Area (MWA) and set up the PWM test stand. The PWM 3 & 4 investigation demonstrates passive measures for controlling fluid delivery and uptake in plant growth systems. Reduced gravity creates challenges in providing adequate fluid and nutrition for plant growth. This investigation examines using other physical properties such as surface tension, wetting and system geometry to replace the role of gravity.
Space Test Program-H5-Innovative Coatings Experiment (STP-H5 ICE) Photo: Using the Cupola and JEM windows, the crew took photos of all four ICE material strips on STP-H5. The harsh radiation and extreme temperatures of space can corrode the paint and coatings that protect spacecraft exteriors, potentially damaging a spacecraft’s hull. Optical coatings are also important for robotic and human navigators, who would rely on specialized markings to capture or repair spacecraft. The STP-H5 ICE studies new coatings for use on spacecraft in low-Earth orbit, determining their stability after two years in space.
Systems
Boeing Starliner Orbital Flight Test 2 (OFT-2) Preparations: In preparation for OFT-2, the crew completed an On-Board Training (OBT) to familiar themselves with Starliner rendezvous monitoring procedures. The crew also pre-packed cargo that will be returned on OFT-2. OFT-2 is scheduled to dock to the ISS on Saturday, July 31st.
Eye Exam: Today, the crew completed a Fundocsope eye exam. Eye exams are performed regularly on-board in order to monitor the optical health of the crew. Eyesight is one of the many aspects of the human body affected by long-duration stays in a microgravity environment. 
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) Routine Maintenance: The crew completed quarterly and 6-month routine ARED maintenance tasks. These tasks included inspections of the X-rotation dashpots, cycling of the main arm through the full range of motion, greasing the Vibration Isolation Stabilization (VIS) rails and rollers. Additionally, the crew inspected the ARED heel raise pip pins, racking mechanism, and the arm base slider track.

