
Progress 69P ISS Reboost: This morning at 11:10 AM CT, the ISS completed a 3m 19s reboost using 69P thrusters.  The purpose of the reboost was to start phasing for 54S landing and 55S launch in October and increased the ISS velocity by 0.40 meters per second (m/s).    
External High Definition Camera (EHDC) Preparation for Return: During the Node 2 Forward External Wireless Communications (EWC) ExtraVehicular Activity (EVA) in June, the degraded Camera Port (CP)3 EHDC was removed for return and refurbishment. To prevent possible exposure to toxic Z-93 paint, the crew executed special procedures today to safely pack the EHDC for return on SpaceX-15. They also stowed the EVA tools that were co-located with the EHDC after checking for potential Z-93 contamination. 
Micro-11: Today the crew performed two sessions for the Micro-11 investigation. They checked out, configured and calibrated theMicro-11 microscope, thawed samples removed from a General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator (GLACIER), fixed those samples and loaded them into the microscope for imaging. Afterwards, they inserted the samples into a Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI). There are a thirteen runs for the Micro-11 investigation. Micro-11 examines whether spaceflight alters human sperm, by tracking the swimming patterns of human and bull sperm during spaceflight. This investigation also assesses other aspects of sperm functionality related to male fertility. As a result, Micro-11 provides fundamental data indicating whether successful human reproduction beyond Earth is possible, and whether countermeasures are needed to protect sperm function in space.   
Microgravity Investigation of Cement Solidification (MICS): The crew transferred a MICS ampoule kit to the ISS Portable Glovebag and broke the seal between the upper and center ampoules and mixed the contents in the ampoules with a spatula. They then returned each sample bag to the kit bag. The MICS investigation supports the evaluation of microstructure and material properties of benchmark cement samples. Different responses to thermal and mechanical loading are expected and will be characterized in detail. Positive attributes found in the hardening process due to the microgravity environment aboard the ISS will be reported with the intent of improving Earth-based cement and concrete processing. 
Aerosol Samplers: Today the crew deployed Active Aerosol Samplers (AASs) in Nodes 2 and 3. The battery-powered AASs actively pull in air and collect particles using the principal of thermophoresis. This is accomplished by flowing the sampled air through a large thermal gradient in a narrow channel. During this process, particles are driven to the cold side of the channel, where an electron microscope (EM) grid is held in place by a tiny magnet. When returned to Earth, these grids are easily removed and placed directly in an EM for analysis.
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test – Cohesive Sediment (BCAT-CS): This morning the crew deployed an AC Inverter in the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) to support BCAT operations.  They then set up the BCAT-CS hardware and mixed all ten samples, while taking manual photos and initiating automated photography utilizing the camera intervalometer. The Camcorder will provide live high-definition video to the ground.  BCAT-CS focuses on the study of forces between particles that cluster together by using sediments of quartz and clay particles.  Conducting the research in the microgravity environment of the ISS makes it possible to separate the forces acting on the particles over a short range (adhesive forces) versus those acting over a long range (cohesive forces). The quartz/clay system is commonly found in a wide variety of environmental settings (such as rivers, lakes, and oceans) and plays an important role in technological efforts related to deep-sea hydrocarbon drilling and carbon dioxide sequestration.
Radiation Dosimetry Inside ISS-Neutron (RaDI-N): Today a USOS crewmember retrieved 8 bubble detectors from deployed locations in Node 3 and handed them over to a Russian crewmember, who will process all the detectors in the Bubble Reader.  This Canadian Space Agency investigation measures neutron radiation levels in the ISS.  Bubble detectors are designed to only detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation. 
Food Acceptability:  Two crewmembers completed Food Acceptability questionnaires today. The Food Acceptability investigation seeks to determine the impact of repetitive consumption of food currently available from the spaceflight food system.  Results will be used in developing strategies to improve food system composition to support crew health and performance on long duration missions. 
Team Task Switching (TTS):  A crewmember completed a TTS survey today.  When crewmembers are required to switch their attention between tasks frequently, performance on each of the tasks can be negatively affected.  The objective of the TTS investigation is to gain knowledge about whether or not crew members have difficulty in switching tasks and determine the impacts of these switches, in order to both reduce any negative consequences and improve individual and team motivation and effectiveness.  
Public Affairs Office (PAO) Events: Today the crew participated in two Live PAO events:

This morning, Gerst answered questions at a public European Space Agency (ESA) event in his hometown Kunzelsau, Germany.
As part of this week’s ISSResearch and Development (R&D) Conference in San Francisco, Feustel talked to approximately 1,000 representatives from commercial industry, academia, government and media, all interested in the future of the International Space Station and future space-based R&D platforms.

Common Berthing Mechanism (CBM) Controller Panel Assembly (CPA) 4 Cable Checkout: Last week, the crew replaced a damaged CBM CPA Latch 4 Actuator Cable.  Today the crew re-installed the affected CBM CPA and performed a checkout using this new cable, ensuring proper operation prior to Dragon unberth on 3 August.
Compound Specific Analyzer-Combustion Products (CSA-CP) Extended Maintenance: Today the crew discharged the old CSA-CP batteries for disposal and performed a battery change-out in all units.  Once the new batteries were installed, all units were zero calibrated and deactivated.  The CSA-CPs are used onboard the ISS to indicate the presence of a fire or pre-ignition and indicate when toxic gas levels have subsided and it is safe for the crew to re-enter the affected area. 

