
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations:  Today’s HRP operations included Lindgren’s Flight Day (FD) 7 Body, perspiration, and surface samples for the Microbiome experiment.  Yui performed saliva samples for Microbiome and Salivary Markers.  Kelly performed Journals, Habitability Observation #7 and downloaded his and Kornienko’s Actiwatches.

The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
Salivary Markers samples will be used to measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays. This research study will help identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system.
Journals obtains information on behavioral and human issues that are relevant to the design of equipment and procedures and sustained human performance during extended-duration missions. Study results provide information to help prepare for future missions to low-Earth orbit and beyond.
Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as Near Earth Asteroids (NEA) and Mars. The ultimate goal is to understand how much habitable volume is required for vehicle internal design and layout, and if mission duration impacts the volume needed.

 
Environmental Health System (EHS) Colorimetric Water Quality Monitoring Kit (CWQMK) Analysis: Kelly performed iodine analysis of water samples collected from the Potable Water Dispenser (PWD). This is a regularly scheduled test to verify water quality.
Environmental Health System (EHS) Sound Level Meter (SLM) Operations: Yui set up the SLM and took sound level readings to measure the acoustic environment in habitable areas of the ISS. The data was downlinked to the ground for analysis.
 

