
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-5 Wiseman conducted flame tests for the BASS-II investigation which examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. Today, Wiseman burned four samples of 2 centimeter wide acrylic slabs. The slabs measured 1, 2, 4, and 5 millimeters thick. The experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Cardio Ox Ultrasound Operations: With Wiseman as an operator, FE-6 Gerst collected Flight Day (FD) 60 ultrasound and BP data for the Cardio Ox investigation. The goal of Cardio Ox is to determine whether biological markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress are elevated during and after space flight and whether this results in an increased, long-term risk of atherosclerosis risk in astronauts. Twelve crewmembers provide blood and urine samples to assess biomarkers before launch, 15, and 60 after launch, 15 days before returning to Earth, and within days after landing. Ultrasound scans of the carotid and brachial arteries are obtained at the same time points, as well as through 5 years after landing, as an indicator of cardiovascular health.
European Space Agency (ESA) Education Payloads Operations (EPO) Marangoni: Gerst recorded a Marangoni convection demonstration. Marangoni convection is the tendency for heat and mass to transfer to areas of higher surface tension within a liquid. This demonstration will be downlinked for educational purposes.
Pressurized Mating Adapter (PMA)2:  In preparation for August EVAs, Swanson accessed PMA2 and retrieved External Television Camera Group (ETVCG) equipment and lights. Tomorrow, Gerst is scheduled to ingress the Zenith 1 (Z1) dome to retrieve the Sequential Shunt Unit (SSU) for EVA 27.
Lab Utility Outlet Panel (UOP)3 Troubleshooting: Swanson configured LAB UOP3 and the current PS-120 junction box to isolate the fault that occurred on Remote Power Control Module (RPCM) LA2A3B-C RPC 3 on April 21st and May 2.  No RPC trips occurred during today’s procedure.  Engineers are evaluating the results.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV) Status:  One of four Propulsion Drive Electronics (PDEs) remains off. Teams are troubleshooting and believe it is due to a software issue versus a hardware issue and that they will be able to re-integrate the PDE by next week. They  have seen similar issues on other ATV flights and re-integrated the PDE successfully. 

