ISS On-Orbit Status 07/30/09
 
  All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below
 
  Crew sleep cycle is back to normal:  Wake 2:00am, sleep 5:30m EDT.
 
  FE-2 Tim Kopra began the first day of his first (FD15) session with the NASA/JSC experiment NUTRITION w/Repository, starting today with the blood draw and continuing tomorrow with urine collections.   Bob Thirsk assisted in the phlebotomy from an arm vein while Mike Barratt took documentary photography.  Bob also set up the Nutrition w/Repository urine collection hardware for Tim &amp; Mike, for their 24-hr urine collections beginning tomorrow.     [After the phlebotomy, Tim’s samples were first allowed to coagulate in the Repository for 20-30 minutes, then spun in the HRF RC (Human Research Facility/Refrigerated Centrifuge) and finally placed in MELFI (Minus-Eighty Laboratory Freezer for ISS).  No thruster activity was allowed during the blood drawing.  The RC was later powered off after a temperature reset to limit wear on the compressor, and cleaned.  The NUTRITION project is the most comprehensive in-flight study done by NASA to date of human physiologic changes during long-duration space flight.  It includes measures of bone metabolism, oxidative damage, nutritional assessments, and hormonal changes, expanding the previous Clinical Nutritional Assessment profile (MR016L) testing in three ways: Addition of in-flight blood &amp; urine collection (made possible by supercold MELFI dewars), normative markers of nutritional assessment, and a return session plus 30-day (R+30) session to allow evaluation of post-flight nutrition and implications for rehabilitation.]
 
  FE-3 Romanenko, FE-4 Thirsk &amp; FE-5 DeWinne began their workday before breakfast with the periodic session of the Russian biomedical routine assessment PZEh-MO-8/Body Mass Measurement, using the IM mass measurement device, which Romanenko then stowed away again.  Third time for all three.   [For determining body mass in zero-G, where things are weightless but not massless, the Russian IM "scales" measure the inertial forces that arise during the oscillatory motion of a mass driven by two helical metering springs with known spring constants.  By measuring the time period of each oscillation of the unknown mass (the crewmember) and comparing it to the period of a known mass, the crewmember’s mass is calculated by the computer and displayed.]
 
  After a review of the POC DOUG (Portable Onboard Computers/Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) software displays for the planned SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System) activities, Barratt &amp; DeWinne “walked” the robot arm from Node-2 to the MBS (Mobile Service System).     [After the ground had completed the base change, Mike &amp; Frank released Node-2 and maneuvered to an intermediate position in preparation for the ground to relocate the SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator)  from the Lab to the MBS.]
 
  FE-2 &amp; FE-4 conducted the PFE (Periodic Fitness Evaluation) protocol, a monthly 1.5-hr. procedure which checks up on blood pressure and electrocardiogram (ECG) during programmed exercise on the CEVIS (Cycle Ergometer with Vibration Isolation) in the US Lab, with Tim Kopra the subject.  The activity was video-recorded, and readings were taken with the BP/ECG (blood pressure/electrocardiograph) and the HRM (heart rate monitor) watch with its radio transmitter.    [Bob Thirsk assisted as CMO (Crew Medical Officer), taking Tim’s BP readings for the PFE protocol.  BP/ECG provides automated noninvasive systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements while also monitoring and displaying accurate heart rates on a continual basis at rest and during exercise.]
 
  After dismantling the docking mechanism (StM, Stykovochnovo mekhanizma) between the Progress M-67/34P cargo ship and the SM (Service Module) aft port yesterday, FE-3 Romanenko &amp; CDR Padalka today installed the LKT local temperature sensor commutator (TA251MB) of the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system, along with its ROM unit (read-only memory, TA765B), as well as the standard US-21 matching unit, and then hooked up its TM connector to the BITS2-12.    [The US-21 Matching Unit “matches” (connects) the SM with the Progress motion control and DPO thrusters systems, so that they can be commanded by the SM computer system (BVS).  The BITS2-12 and its VD-SU control system mode were subsequently turned back on.  A dynamic Progress thruster test of the complete integration of 34P into the ISS will be conducted later.]
  
  Afterwards, Padalka supported the activation of the Elektron oxygen generator at 24 amps by the ground by monitoring the external temperature of its secondary purification unit (BD) for the first 10 minutes of operations to ensure that there was no overheating.    [The gas analyzer used on the Elektron during nominal operations for detecting hydrogen (H<sub>2</sub>) in the O<sub>2</sub> line (which could cause overheating) is not included in the control algorithm until 10 minutes after Elektron startup.  Elektron had been turned off during the recent cabin atmosphere represses with gases from Progress 33P.  Also, the Elektron has to be turned off when the BITS2-12 onboard telemetry measurement system and VD-SU control system mode are deactivated for avionics outfitting work.]
 
  Gennady also replaced the RODF (Russian Operations Data Files) pages with new “dokumentatsii” delivered on 34P.    [Books and updates deal with Medical Operations, Geophysics Experiments, SOZh Life Support System, ViA Video &amp; Audio, and Progress M-67 Cargo Transfer Ops.] 
 
  Bob set up the SLAMMD (Space Linear Acceleration Mass Measurement Device) hardware, checked it out and used it for BMM (Body Mass Measurement),- his first time.  Afterwards, the procedure was repeated on Frank DeWinne, also his first time, followed by stowage of the hardware.    [SLAMMD, performed first on Expedition 12 in December 2005, provides an accurate means of determining the on-orbit mass of humans spanning the range from the 5th percentile Japanese female and the 95th percentile American male.  The procedure, in accordance with Newton’s 2<sup>nd</sup> Law of Motion, finds the mass by dividing force, generated by two springs inside the SLAMMD drawer, by acceleration measured with a precise optical instrument that detects the position versus time trajectory of the SLAMMD guide arm and a micro controller which collects the raw data and provides the precise timing.  The final computation is done via portable laptop computer with SLAMMD unique software.  To calculate their mass, crewmembers wrap their legs around a leg support assembly, align the stomach against a belly pad and either rest the head or chin on a head rest.  For calibration, an 18-lbs. mass is used at different lengths from the pivot point, to simulate different mass values.  Crew mass range is from 90 to 240 lbs.]
 
  The FE-4 also performed the regular service on the WPA (Water Processor Assembly), first offloading the WPA from WRS (Water Recovery System) Rack 1 into a CWC-I (Contingency Water Container-Iodine, #2001) with the common H<sub>2</sub>O transfer hose (which took about 23 min) from the PWD (Potable Water Dispenser) Auxiliary Port, then flushing the system.
 
  Additionally, Thirsk completed the weekly 10-min. CWC (Collapsible Water Container) inventory as part of on-going WRM (Water Recovery &amp; Management) assessment of onboard water supplies.  Updated “cue cards” based on the crew’s water calldowns are sent up every other week.
 
  In the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment), Bob Thirsk changed out the urine receptacle and insert filter.
 
  FE-2 Kopra retrieved and stowed the four passive FMK (Formaldehyde Monitoring Kit) sampling assemblies deployed by him on 7/28 in the Lab (at P3, below CEVIS) and SM (at the most forward handrail, on panel 307), to catch any atmospheric formaldehyde on a collector substrate for subsequent analysis on the ground.    [Two monitors each are usually attached side by side, preferably in an orientation with their faces perpendicular to the direction of air flow.]
 
  The CDR performed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM, including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.
 
  Gennady also began cargo transfer ops from the Progress cargo ship to the ISS.
 
  Roman completed the daily IMS (Inventory Management System) maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
  Gennady set up the video equipment to record documentary footage of crewmembers using the newly fixed ARED (Advanced Resistive Exercise Device).  Later, the video was downloaded and the equipment stowed.
 
  The crew completed their regular daily 2.5-hr. physical workout program on the CEVIS cycle ergometer (FE-2), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation (CDR, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), ARED (CDR, FE-1, FE-2, FE-4, FE-5), and VELO cycle ergometer with bungee cord load trainer (FE-3). 
 
  Later, Roman transferred the exercise data files to the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer) for downlink, including the daily wristband HRM (Heart Rate Monitor) data of the workouts on ARED, followed by their erasure on the HRM storage medium (done six times a week).
 
  At ~10:00am, all crewmembers convened for their standard bi-weekly teleconference with the JSC Astronaut Office (Steve Lindsey), via S-band S/G-2 audio &amp; phone patch.
  
 

