
Status:  
Capillary Flow Experiment-2 (CFE-2)-Vane Gap: Yui successfully configured the CFE-2 Vane Gap experiment including the lighting and video camera for appropriate viewing and data collection. He used the CFE-2 vessel to observe the fluid interface and critical wetting behavior in the cylindrical chamber with an elliptical cross-section adjustable central perforated valve. This was the 101st run of CFE-2.  The goal of the Vane Gap experiment is to determine equilibrium interface configurations and critical wetting conditions for interfaces between interior corners separated by a gap.  CFE involves many studies centered on a phenomenon called wetting which is the ability and degree that a liquid spreads across a surface. The original CFE tests were highly successful at uncovering the dynamics of wetting in microgravity. CFE-2 determines the critical wetting conditions for screens and perforated plates for perfectly wetting fluids. The impact of such ‘porous substrates’ has immediate implications to the design of passive geometries to manage highly wetting fuels, cryogens, thermal fluids, and contaminated aqueous solutions for urine processing. The unique vane gap critical wetting phenomena is greatly complicated by the presence of three-dimensional (3-D) porous walls.
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations:  Today’s HRP operations included Lindgren’s Flight Day (FD) 7 blood draw for the Microbiome experiment.  He and Yui also collected FD7 Microbiome saliva samples.  Both sets of samples were inserted into Minus Eighty Degree Celsius Laboratory Freezer for ISS (MELFI) for return on a future flight.
 

The Microbiome experiment investigates the impact of space travel on both the human immune system and an individual’s microbiome (the collection of microbes that live in and on the human body at any given time).
Salivary Markers samples will be used to measure markers of latent viral reactivation (a global indicator of immune impairment and infection risk) in conjunction with salivary antimicrobial proteins and immune cell functional assays. This research study will help identify if there are any risks of an adverse health event in crewmembers due to an impaired immune system.

 
Node 1 (N1) Galley Rack Prep: Kelly continued with N1 reorganization of stowage, including moving infrequently used hardware to the Permanent Multipurpose Module (PMM). This reorganization is required to make room for the new Galley Rack that arrives on HTV-5.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) 3011 Return To Service (RTS): So far this week Lindgren and Kelly have completed gas trap, Water Line Vent Tube Assembly (WLVTA) and Fan Pump Separator (FPS) Remove & Replace (R&R) as well as cleaning and inspecting the Primary Life Support System (PLSS). Today, following cleanup from the FPS R&R, the crew performed a water tank dump and fill for EMUs 3005 and 3011 followed by a EMU 3011 flush, 60mL water sample and O2 leak checks. Tomorrow Kelly is scheduled to perform ionic and particulate filtration and bioicidal maintenance of EMU and Airlock cooling water loops.
High Beta Operations:  Today the solar beta angle is +69.2 and increasing in magnitude. The beta angle is expected to peak at +69.6 on GMT 213 (8/1/15).  Tonight ground specialist will be configuring power channel batteries in a high beta configuration to prevent overcharging.
 
