
FLame Extinguishment Experiment (FLEX)-2 Operations: Commander (CDR) Swanson removed the Combustion Integration Rack (CIR) alignment guides which isolated the rack and allowed ground teams to start another FLEX-2 test point via ground commanding. FLEX-2 uses small droplets of fuel to study the special burning characteristics of fire in space. This test session will utilize 50% heptane and 50% iso-octane. The FLEX-2 experiment studies the rate and manner in which fuel is burned, the conditions that are necessary for soot to form, and the way in which a mixture of fuels evaporate before burning. The results from these experiments will give scientists a better understanding how fires behave in space and will provide important information that will be useful in increasing the fuel efficiency of engines using liquid fuels.
Burning and Suppression of Solids (BASS)-II Operations: Flight Engineer (FE)-6 Gerst conducted flame tests for the BASS-II investigation which examines the burning and extinction characteristics of a wide variety of fuel samples in microgravity. Gerst burned four black acrylic rods today. The experiment will guide strategies for materials flammability screening for use in spacecraft as well as provide valuable data on solid fuel burning behavior in microgravity. BASS-II results contribute to the combustion computational models used in the design of fire detection and suppression systems in microgravity and on Earth.
Human Research Facility (HRF) Rack Interface Controller (RIC) Load: FE-5 Wiseman initiated HRF Rack 1 RIC load to update the software.
Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV)-5 Status: Following yesterday’s launch, ATV Control Center (CC) received an indication of an anomaly on one of ATV’s four Propulsion Drive Electronics (PDE) chains. Teams are investigating the root cause and determining if the PDE can be recovered.   Rendezvous and docking requires 3 of 4 PDE’s.  ATV docking is scheduled for August 12th.
Cygnus Cargo Operations:  Today the crew began loading disposal items into the Cygnus spacecraft.  They will continue the loading operations tomorrow.  Cygnus unberth is scheduled for August 15th.
Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Maintenance/Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: Swanson completed EMU water conductivity measurements on water samples from all four EMUs.  Later, he and Wiseman unstowed hardware from the Airlock that is not needed for the upcoming August EVAs and prepared the Airlock to support EVA operations.

