
Payloads
BioMole: The crew performed BioMole part 3 of the science session, which consists of preparation of the previously amplified DNA (DeoxyriboNucleic Acid), followed by sequencing using the MinION.  The BioMole Facility non-culture based samples are capable of providing microbial identification on-orbit within days of sampling.  The goal of this tech demonstration is to conduct comparative analysis for possible replacement of current microbial monitoring systems. 
Droplet Formation Study (DFS):  The crew performed the setup and initiation of recording for additional runs of the DFS investigation.  Data will be archived by an alternate method which will actually result in a quicker delivery time to the experiment team.  Droplet Formation Studies in Microgravity (Droplet Formation Study, or more simply DFS) evaluates water droplet formation and water flow of Delta Faucet’s H2Okinetic shower head technology.  To conserve water, flow rates in shower devices have been reduced, but this lower flow rate also reduces the effectiveness of these devices and often causes consumers to take longer showers, undermining the goal of using less water. Gravity’s full effects on formation of water droplet size are unknown, and research in microgravity could help improve the technology, creating better performance and improved user experience while conserving water and energy. 
Radi-N2 deploy: Following initialization and handover from the Russian crew, all eight bubble detectors were deployed in the US Lab Panel 1S4 location.  They will remain in this location for a week to collect data on the neutron radiation environment in that location.  The objective of this Canadian Space Agency investigation is to better characterize the ISS neutron environment, define the risk posed to the crew members’ health, and provide the data necessary to develop advanced protective measures for future spaceflight.  It’s been recognized that neutrons make up a significant fraction (10-30%) of the biologically effective radiation exposure in low-Earth orbit.  The bubble detectors used in the investigation are designed detect neutrons and ignore all other radiation.
Systems
On-Board Training (OBT) Crew Dragon Depart Review: In preparation for their departure from ISS, the crew completed this proficiency training covering the departure profile, crew procedures, interfaces, nominal and off-nominal actions. SpaceX Demo-2 is currently planned for undock on Saturday, August 1 at 6:34 pm CT with splashdown on Sunday, August 2 at 2:42 pm CT.
Cabin Fan Assembly 1 (CFA1) R&R Closeout Operations: Today the crew completed the final closeout activities after successfully installing the new cabin fan in the CO1D1 rack yesterday. As part of closeout, the crew installed the vacuum and vent hose, the high speed camera and the Electromagnetic Levitation (EML) sample chamber back into the experiment module. The R&R activity required approximately a half hour to perform but equipment had to be removed to allow rack tilting to access the fan. The suite of activities was subdivided across three consecutive days.
Crew Dragon Prepack Transfer: The crew continued to perform Dragon cargo transfer operations. Ground teams estimate approximately 1 hour remains to complete available cargo ops.  The remaining time will be performed per dedicated activities on undock day. 

