
New Status:
Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Layer2 Ethernet Hub and Multiplexer (LEHX) Setup:  Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy configured the LEHX Hub and a System Laptop Terminal (SLT) with a medium rate data cable to enable communication with the Improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG). He set up the SLT to communicate with the Joint Station Local Area Network (JSL) and Space Station Integration and Promotion Center (SSIPC) over the ISS Ku Band.  Following full deployment and configuration, the LEHX Hub will allow remote administrative access to onboard JAXA laptops, file up and downlink capabilities to JAXA laptops, and video conferencing capabilities using medical laptops thereby enhancing Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) operations and contribute to crew time efficiencies.    
HII-Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Robotic Onboard Trainer (ROBoT) Training: Cassidy and FE-6 Nyberg completed two capture point hold runs to practice free drift timing, response to malfunctions, nominal rate approaches, and 2 meter approaches in preparation for HTV-4.  HTV-4 is planned to launch August 3rd and berth to ISS on August 9th.
Robotic Work Station (RWS) Capture Volume Checkout: Robotics Ground Controllers were unable to complete the RWS Capture Volume Checkout in preparation on HTV-4.  This checkout verifies the Capture Volume overlay by maneuvering the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to various positions within the Capture Volume to confirm the overlay has been drawn correctly. The SSRMS was in position as expected, however the capture volume overlay was not being drawn correctly. Ground specialists are investigating the issue and assessing forward plans.  Following the attempted test, Robotics Ground Controllers maneuvered the SSRMS back to a park position.
Ocular Health: Cassidy performed eye exams using the Fundoscope on Parmitano and Nyberg. The Ocular Health protocol aims to systematically gather physiological data to characterize the Risk of Microgravity-Induced Visual Impairment/Intracranial Pressure on crewmembers assigned to a 6 month ISS increment. Researchers believe that by systematically measuring visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment, a database could be developed to inform future in-flight research protocols, identify mechanisms, develop countermeasures, and direct clinical monitoring and clinical practice guidelines.
Columbus Thermal Control System (TCS) Degassing Operations:  As a follow-up task from the Columbus (COL) Water Pump Assembly (WPA)-2 Remove & Replace (R&R) and Commissioning completed earlier this month, Parmitano set up the Columbus hydrocyclone to remove gas bubbles from the Columbus TCS.  The hydrocyclone removes excess gas bubbles from the coolant in the TCS by using centrifugal force to move the coolant and gas inside a vortex to separate and vent the gas through a vent valve.

