
Payloads:
Combustion Integrated Rack/Solid Fuel Ignition and Extinction (CIR/SoFIE): The crew gained access to the interior of the CIR rack, and replaced the CIR Fuel and Oxidizer Management Assembly (FOMA) Calibration Unit. The FOMA calibration is performed periodically to help verify accurate readings from the various measurement systems in the CIR. The CIR facility includes an optics bench, combustion chamber, fuel, and oxidizer control, and five different cameras for performing combustion investigations in microgravity. SoFIE is a hardware insert for the Combustion Integrated Rack (CIR) that enables a wide range of solid-material combustion and fire suppression studies.
JEM Small Satellite Orbital Deployer-22 (J-SSOD-22): Part 1 of the J-SSOD-22 hardware installation to the JEM airlock slide table was completed. This is preparation for translation of the J-SSOD-22 system to the external environment for deployment of three satellites on Friday. The J-SSOD provides a novel and safe small satellite launching capability to the ISS. The J-SSOD is a unique satellite launcher, handled by the JEM Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS), which provides containment and deployment mechanisms for several individual small satellites. Once J-SSOD, including satellite cases with small satellites, is installed onto the MPEP by crew members, it is passed through the JEM Airlock for retrieval, positioning, and deployment by the JEMRMS.
Nanoracks Mainframe Alpha: The crew removed Nanoracks Modules-72A, 95, 97, and 100 from Nanoracks Mainframe Alpha, took photos of the modules, and prepared them for return to the ground. Nanoracks Mainframe Alpha is an EXPRESS Rack sub-facility designed to provide thermal control, power, and data management to individual Nanoracks Module experiments. The modules are designed to a very limited and specific form factor that fits inside Mainframe Alpha; so, Mainframe Alpha supports a wide variety of sciences that changes each mission.
XROOTS (eXposed Root On-Orbit Test System): The insertion of the seed cartridges and root modules to formally begin the third plant growth session was performed. Over the next ~30 days, the crew will observe and assist with the seed germination and grow out of the plants. The XROOTS investigation uses hydroponic and aeroponic techniques to grow plants without soil or other growth media. Video and still images enable evaluation of multiple independent growth chambers for the entire plant life cycle from seed germination through maturity. Results could identify suitable methods to produce crops on a larger scale for future space missions.
Systems:
Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) Manual Fill: As part of regularly scheduled preventive maintenance, the crew performed a manual WHC flush tank fill. By using a post-flight analysis bag to capture any pressure relief, also known as a burp, the crew depressurized the flush water tank and the water valve block to protect the dose pump. This pump is critical as it injects pre-treat required to properly recycle waste urine. 
EVA Battery Operations Terminal Charge Initiation: The crew initiated a charge of the Lithium-Ion Battery using the EVA Battery Operations Terminal. The Rechargeable EVA Battery Assembly (REBA) Lithium-Ion Batteries are being recharged for use during Russian EVA #54 on Wednesday, August 17th. 
Health Maintenance System (HMS) Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Inspection: The crew inspected the AED and its associated consumables as part of monthly preventive maintenance.  The crew tested batteries and examined the outer AED case and the AED Electrodes Kit.
Transfer Dragon Cargo Operations: The crew continued cargo operations by packing cargo into Cargo Dragon in preparation for SpX-25 undock later this month.

