
Payloads
Astrobee:  The Astrobee system was powered on in support of additional free-flight and checkout operations.  Astrobee will be used in the Kibo Robot Programming Challenge in the coming weeks.  Astrobee is made up of three free-flying, cube-shaped robots which are designed to help scientists and engineers develop and test technologies for use in microgravity to assist astronauts with routine chores, and give ground controllers additional eyes and ears on the space station. The autonomous robots, powered by fans and vision-based navigation, perform crew monitoring, sampling, logistics management, and can accommodate up to three investigations.
Droplet Formation Studies (DFS):  In preparation for the next series of sample runs, the crew performed a water jet replacement ad water cleanup for the DFS investigation.  Droplet Formation Studies in Microgravity (Droplet Formation Study, or more simply DFS) evaluates water droplet formation and water flow of Delta Faucet’s H2Okinetic shower head technology.  To conserve water, flow rates in shower devices have been reduced, but this lower flow rate also reduces the effectiveness of these devices and often causes consumers to take longer showers, undermining the goal of using less water. Gravity’s full effects on formation of water droplet size are unknown, and research in microgravity could help improve the technology, creating better performance and improved user experience while conserving water and energy.
Fluid Science Laboratory/Soft Matter Dynamics/Sample Cell Unit (FSL/SMD/SCU):  In support of the currently on-going FOAM coarsening experiment, the crew performed the necessary steps to install two new SCUs.  There was an initial indication of a previous sample leak in one of the SCUs (flakes were observed), and the ground team will assess the situation.  FSL Soft Matter Dynamics – Hydrodynamics of Wet Foams (Foam Coarsening) aims to investigate bubble size and rearrangement dynamics for “wet foams”. Microgravity offers the opportunity to investigate such “wet” foams, which cannot be stabilized on Earth because of drainage. Moreover, microgravity conditions are essential to study rearrangement phenomena, such as coarsening and coalescence, disentangled from drainage.
Plant Habitat-02:  The crew performed steps to prepare for the Growth Light Assembly (GLA) checkout, and installed the growth chamber shade and acoustic blanket on the Plant Hab unit.  This is a continuation of the activities needed to prepare for science samples arriving on NG-14. Assessment of Nutritional Value and Growth Parameters of Space-grown Plants (Plant Habitat-02) cultivates radishes as a model plant that is nutritious and edible, has a short cultivation time, and is genetically similar to Arabidopsis, a plant frequently studied in microgravity. Developing the capability for food production in space requires understanding cultivation conditions such as intensity and spectral composition of light and the effects of the culture medium or soil. This research could help optimize plant growth in the unique environment of space, as well as evaluation of nutrition and taste of the plants.
Systems
Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) 6-Month Maintenance: The crew completed this regularly scheduled maintenance to inspect heel raise pip pins, racking mechanism and arm base slider track.
Urine Transfer System (UTS) Operations: Prior to crew wake, the Adlink Mini PC, referred to as the DAN (Domain Adapter Node) box failed on the UTS. As a result, ground controllers (ETHOS) did not have command capability or telemetry to the UTS and were unable to perform recycle tank operations. The crew was scheduled to setup the transfer from the Water Stowage Systems (WSS) Resupply Tank to the Contingency Water Container (CWC), swap to a second CWC and perform teardown operations. With the crew’s assistance the ground team initiated and terminated the water transfers from the ground. The DAN box was fully restored.

