
Fluid Shifts Imaging with Chibis in the Service Module (SM): Over the weekend, the Commander and FE-1, with ground team assistance, configured the Ultrasound 2 hardware before completing their Ultrasound scans in the SM while using the Chibis for the Fluid Shifts experiment run. The Fluids Shift investigation is divided into three segments: Dilution Measures, Baseline Imaging, and Baseline Imaging using the Russian Chibis Lower Body Negative Pressure (LBNP) device. The experiment measures how much fluid shifts from the lower body to the upper body, in or out of cells and blood vessels, and determines the impact these shifts have on fluid pressure in the head, changes in vision and eye structures. 
Fluid Shifts Dilution Measurements: FE-4 and FE-5 performed their Flight Day 45 (FD45) Fluid Shifts operations by configuring the Refrigerated Centrifuge for sample load operations, conducting body (blood, urine, and saliva) sample collections and stowing the samples in a MELFI (Minus Eighty-degree Freezer for ISS). They also collected a galley water sample and stowed in the MELFI prior to ingestion of a Tracer solution.   Additionally, CDR and FE-6 conducted troubleshooting of the Cerebral and Cochlear Fluid Pressure (CCFP) which was not operating as expected on Friday.  Ground specialists continue to evaluate the data obtained during the troubleshooting.  CCFP measurements are scheduled for tomorrow’s Baseline Data Collections.  
Mouse Epigenetics Cage Unit Maintenance: Over the weekend the crew replaced a Mouse Habitat Cage unit for food containment issues.  Today the crew refilled the water in the Mouse Habitat Cage Units. The Mouse Epigenetics investigation studies altered gene expression patterns in the organs of male mice that spend one month in space and also examines changes in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of their offspring. Results from the investigation identify genetic alterations that happen after exposure to the microgravity environment of space.
Habitability Human Factors Directed Observations: The crew recorded and submitted a walk-through video documenting observations of life onboard ISS, providing insight related to human factors and habitability. The Habitability investigation collects observations about the relationship between crew members and their environment on the ISS. Observations can help spacecraft designers understand how much habitable volume is required, and whether a mission’s duration impacts how much space crew members need.
Fine Motor Skills: Over the weekend the crew completed a series of interactive tasks for the Fine Motor Skills investigation. This investigation is critical during long-duration space missions, particularly those skills needed to interact with technologies required in next-generation space vehicles, spacesuits, and habitats. The crewmembers’ fine motor skills are also necessary for performing tasks in transit or on a planetary surface, such as information access, just-in-time training, subsystem maintenance, and medical treatment.
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) Preparations: In preparation for the IDA2 EVA, the crew performed the following:

Started and configured the Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics (DOUG) software to receive and display real time Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) joint angle telemetry from a Portable Computer System (PCS) laptop. They also configured the system without real time SSRMS joint angle telemetry.
Procedures review including detailed timeline, overall IDA2 installation plan and tool config.
Procedures conference with ground teams.

Tonometer Eye Simulator Cornea – This morning the crew successfully replaced the artificial cornea in the Tonometer Eye Simulator and all subsequent eye exams were completed nominally. The Tonometer Eye Simulator failed to hold pressure on August 5th, requiring a replacement of the cornea. The eye simulator is used by the on-orbit Chief Medical Officer to practice their tonometry technique before performing exams on another crewmate’s eye.
N3 MCA Ion Pump Spikes – On Friday, ground teams reported an increase in frequency and amplitude of the ion pump spikes for the past 2 months. The FDIR limit has not yet been exceeded. Trend data of previous units has indicated that once the ion pump spikes began, a failure of the Mass Spectrometer (ORU2) will likely occur within several months. N3 MCA ORU2 has been in operation for ~3 years, which is twice the average lifetime of the unit. There is currently one spare ORU2 on-orbit. The Lab MCA was successfully activated at the beginning of July post an R&R of ORU2, however it still requires a pump down of prior to startup and calibration. 

