ISS On-Orbit Status 08/06/11
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.   Saturday – Crew off-duty day.
 
CDR Borisenko conducted the periodic maintenance of the active Russian BMP Harmful Impurities Removal System, starting the “bake-out” cycle to vacuum on absorbent bed #2 of the regenerable dual-channel filtration system.  Andrey will terminate the process at ~5:15pm EDT before sleep time.  Bed #1 regeneration was performed yesterday.      [Regeneration of each of the two cartridges takes about 12 hours and is conducted only during crew awake periods. The BMP’s regeneration cycle is normally done every 20 days.]
 
The six crewmembers joined in conducting the regular weekly three-hour task of thorough cleaning of their home, including COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory) and Kibo JPM (JEM Pressurized Module).  As part of today’s uborka, Ron Garan took documentary photographs of the RGSH AORG (Return Grid Sensor Housing add-on screens) at COL D0 before and after going over them with the vacuum cleaner (to be compared with pictures taken during previous cleaning to establish the quantity of debris captured during the week).       ["Uborka", usually done on Saturdays, includes removal of food waste products, cleaning of compartments with vacuum cleaner, damp cleaning of the SM (Service Module) dining table, other frequently touched surfaces and surfaces where trash is collected, as well as the sleep stations with a standard cleaning solution; also, fan screens and grilles are cleaned to avoid temperature rises. Special cleaning is also done every 90 days on the HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) bacteria filters in the Lab.]
 
As part of the uborka house cleaning, CDR Borisenko &amp; FE-1 Samokutyayev &amp; FE-4 Volkov completed regular maintenance inspection &amp; cleaning of fan screens in the FGB (TsV2) plus Group E fan grilles (VPkhO, FS5, FS6, VP) in the SM (Service Module), while FE-4 Volkov serviced the numerous Group A ventilator fans &amp; grilles in the SM, after photographing all fan screens for ground inspection.
 
Also during the house cleaning, Aleks Samokutyayev tested the SM PSS caution &amp; warning panel (which had been switched for the EVA-29 from the regular PSS console to the EVA support panel (POV).
 
Andrey Borisenko completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
At ~9:00am EDT, the crew held the regular WPC (Weekly Planning Conference) with the ground, discussing next week's "Look-Ahead Plan" (prepared jointly by MCC-H and TsUP-Moscow timeline planners), via S-band/audio, reviewing upcoming activities and any concerns about future on-orbit events.
 
In the Kibo JPM, FE-6 Fossum powered up the SDRM (SpaceDRUMS/Space Dynamically Responding Ultrasonic Matrix) payload on ER-5 (EXPRESS Rack 5) and turned it off again about 5 hrs later after resource tracking by POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center), which is an unattended activity to track power, medium rate data, and analog video usage.      [SpaceDRUMS suspends a baseball-sized solid or liquid sample using 20 acoustic beam emitters during combustion or heat-based synthesis.  Materials can be produced in microgravity with an unparalleled quality of shape and composition.  SpaceDRUMS will support scientific understanding of processes like combustion synthesis and self-propagating high temperature synthesis and also provide direct commercial benefits from materials processing.  Advanced ceramics, polymer, and colloids can be processed in SpaceDRUMS.]
 
Mike also opened the protective window shutters of Lab WORF (Window Observational Research Facility) for the ISSAC (ISS Agriculture Camera) equipment, so ground images can be captured by ground commanding.  Later tonight, FE-6 will close the shutters again.      [ISSAC takes frequent visible-light &amp; infrared images of vegetated areas on the Earth.  The camera focuses principally on rangelands, grasslands, forests, and wetlands in the northern Great Plains and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States.  The images may be delivered directly upon request to farmers, ranchers, foresters, natural resource managers and tribal officials to help improve their environmental stewardship of the land.  The images will also be shared with educators for classroom use.]
 
In the ESA COL, FE-5 Furukawa &amp; FE-3 Garan performed a VolSci (Voluntary Weekend Science) activity, having chosen the ERB2 (European Recording Binocular 2) Delta commissioning which aims at testing a final functionality of the camera, i.e., its capacity to transmit in near real-time live 3D audio &amp; video signal to ESA’s ESTEC Erasmus Centre Auditorium.      [Activity steps included configuring the VCA1 (Video Camera Assembly 1) for real-time monitoring, activating and checking out the ERB2 at the ESA EDR (European Drawer Rack), then shooting about 20 min of video of “Life onboard ISS” after an uplinked script.] 
 
In the JAXA JPM, also as a VolSci activity, Satoshi later performed CB (Clean Bench) clean-up and CB relief valve checkout.     [For the cleanup and checkout of the relief valves, the CB OC (Operation Chamber) had to be pulled out with its joystick and subsequently reconfigured for stowage.]
 
Borisenko &amp; Samokutyayev each completed another data collection session for the psychological program MBI-16 Vzaimodejstvie (“Interactions”), accessing and completing the computerized study questionnaire on the RSE-Med laptop and saving the data in an encrypted file.  It was Andrey’s 7<sup>th</sup>, Sasha’s 8<sup>th</sup> onboard session with MBI-16.      [The software has a “mood” questionnaire, a “group &amp; work environment” questionnaire, and a “critical incidents” log.  Results from the study, which is also mirrored by ground control subjects, could help to improve the ability of future crewmembers to interact safely and effectively with each other and with Mission Control, to have a more positive experience in space during multi-cultural, long-duration missions, and to successfully accomplish mission activities.]
 
FE-6 Fossum filled out his weekly FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire) on the MEC (Medical Equipment Computer).     [On the FFQs, USOS astronauts keep a personalized log of their nutritional intake over time on special MEC software.  Recorded are the amounts consumed during the past week of such food items as beverages, cereals, grains, eggs, breads, snacks, sweets, fruit, beans, soup, vegetables, dairy, fish, meat, chicken, sauces &amp; spreads, and vitamins.  The FFQ is performed once a week to estimate nutrient intake from the previous week and to give recommendations to ground specialists that help maintain optimal crew health.  Weekly estimation has been verified to be reliable enough that nutrients do not need to be tracked daily.]
 
In the DC-1, Sergei Volkov terminated the post-EVA-29 recharge process on the first 825M3 Orlan battery pack in the ZU-S recharge unit and initiated it on pack 2.
 
In another Increment 27 crew handover segment, Ron Garan had about an hour scheduled with Satoshi Furukawa to bring him up to par with USOS (US Segment) tasks.
 
FE-3 &amp; FE-4 had their weekly PFC (Private Family Conference) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Sergei at ~7:40am, Ron at ~11:05am EDT.
 
At ~2:00pm, Mike Fossum will power up the SM's amateur radio equipment (Kenwood VHF transceiver with manual frequency selection, headset, &amp; power supply) and at 2:10pm conduct a ham radio session with scouts the Octave Chanute Air Museum/Scouts Space Jam 5, Rantoul, Illinois.
 
The crew worked out with their regular 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-3, FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-1, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (FE-1, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (CDR).
 

