
Sarcolab-3:  With assistance from a Russian operator, a USOS crewmember ingressed the Muscle Atrophy Research & Exercise System (MARES) chair in the Columbus module and adjusted pads and constraints for the Sarcolab-3 ankle protocol.  The operator then collected ultrasound images of the subject’s right leg.  Six of the nine protocol exercises were completed.  Ground teams are considering a reschedule of the remaining three activities. The data collected for Sarcolab-3 will be compared to pre and postflight measurements to assess the impact of hypothesized microgravity induced muscle loss.  Myotendinous and Neuromuscular Adaptation to Long-term Spaceflight (Sarcolab) investigates the adaptation and deterioration of the soleus (calf muscle) where it joins the Achilles tendon, which links it to the heel and carries loads from the entire body. Muscle fiber samples are taken from crew members before and after flight, and analyzed for changes in structural and chemical properties. MRI and ultrasound tests and electrode stimulation are conducted to help assess muscle and tendon changes caused by microgravity exposure
Rodent Research-5 (RR-5) Systemic Therapy of NELL-1 for Osteoporosis: The crew completed the third of four days of bone scans and sampling for RR-5.  Because spaceflight has significant and rapid effects on the musculoskeletal system, it is important to investigate targeted therapies that could ameliorate some of the detrimental effects of spaceflight. The NELL-1 drug being studied in the RR-5 investigation has the potential to slow or reverse bone loss during spaceflight. 
Space Headaches:  The 51 Soyuz (51S) USOS crewmembers continued completion of daily questionnaires for the European Space Agency (ESA) Space Headaches investigation. The daily questionnaires are used during the first week of USOS crewmember’s arrival at the ISS. The Space Headaches investigation collects information that may help in the development of methods to alleviate associated symptoms and improvement in the well-being and performance of crewmembers in space. Headaches during space flight can negatively affect mental and physical capacities of crewmembers that can influence performance during a space mission.
Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) Layer 2 Ethernet and Multiplexer (LEHX):  The crew removed and replaced the LEHX 1553B module. The LEHX has experienced communication issues since December, 2016 with an increase in their frequency over time. 
Tropical Cyclone: This morning the crew took pictures of the Category 3 Typhoon Noru in the western Pacific. The Tropical Cyclone investigation is used to capture images of tropical cyclones and hurricanes that are rated at Category 3 or greater on the Saffir-Simpson scale. A pseudo-stereoscopic method is used to determine the altitudes of the cloud tops near the center (eye) of a cyclone by precisely tracking the apparent positions of cloud features with respect to the Earth and how those positions change over time as an observer (the ISS in this case) passes over the storm. The photographic images will be used to demonstrate that pseudo-spectroscopy can be used to measure the cloud altitudes to sufficient precision so that, when combined with other remote-sensing data, an accurate determination of the intensity of hurricane or cyclone can be made.
Express Rack (ER) 4 Quick Disconnect (QD) Maintenance: During a Rack Interface Controller (RIC) R&R in 2012, the crew demated umbilicals behind the rack and observed 3 different leaking QDs. A workaround was developed to contain the leaks but teams advised that QD troubleshooting and maintenance should be scheduled prior to rotating the rack again. This Thursday, the crew is scheduled to remove the Payload Ethernet Hub Bridge (PEHB) and replace it with an Improved Payload Ethernet Hub Gateway (iPEHG) which requires ER4 rotation. Today the crew performed this corrective QD maintenance ahead of Thursday’s planned activities. 

