
Ocular Health (OH) Flight Day 10 (FD10): Yui and Lindgren, with Kelly as Crew Medical Officer (CMO), performed Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) to measure retinal thickness, volume, and retinal nerve fiber layer. At the end of the crew day, again with Kelly’s assistance, Yui and Lindgren used the fundoscope to obtain images of the retinal surface. The Ocular Health protocol calls for a systematic gathering of physiological data to characterize the risk of microgravity-induced visual impairment/intracranial pressure in ISS crewmembers. Researchers believe that the measurement of visual, vascular and central nervous system changes over the course of this experiment and during the subsequent post-flight recovery will assist in the development of countermeasures, clinical monitoring strategies, and clinical practice guidelines.
 
Binary Colloidal Alloy Test (BCAT)-Low Gravity Phase Kinetics Platform (KP):  During the scheduled image transfer time, Kelly discovered that the BCAT camera had a dead battery.  He attempted a manual transfer from the camera’s memory card but received an error.  Ground specialists believe that a bubble is in the Field of View of the camera, and may require re-running the sample.  Teams are discussing the forward plan for BCAT.
 
Human Research Program (HRP) Operations: Kelly and Kornienko are performing their week of sleep logging.  Within fifteen minutes of wakeup, the crew answers questions from the SleepLog application on the Station Support Computer (SSC).  Kelly also completed his FD132 Fine Motor Skills, and is scheduled for a Habitability Walk-through video #3 and Observation #8.

The Sleep ISS-12 experiment monitors ambient light exposure and crew member activity, and collects subjective evaluations of sleep and alertness, to examine the effects of space flight and ambient light exposure on sleep during a year-long mission on the International Space Station (ISS).
In the Fine Motor Skills experiment crew members perform a series of interactive tasks on a touchscreen tablet. The investigation is the first fine motor skills study to measure long-term microgravity exposure, different phases of microgravity adaptation, and sensorimotor recovery after returning to Earth gravity. The goal of Fine Motor Skills is to answer how fine motor performance in microgravity trend/vary over the duration of a six-month and year-long space mission; how fine motor performance on orbit compare with that of a closely matched participant on Earth; and how performance trend/vary before and after gravitational transitions, including the periods of early flight adaptation, and very early/near immediate post-flight periods.
Habitability assesses the relationship between crew members and their environment in order to better prepare for future long-duration spaceflights to destinations, such as Near Earth Asteroids (NEA) and Mars. The ultimate goal is to understand how much habitable volume is required for vehicle internal design and layout, and if mission duration impacts the volume needed.

 
On-board Training (OBT) HII Transfer Vehicle (HTV) Rendezvous Review: In preparation for HTV-5 arrival scheduled for August 20, Lindgren and Yui participated in a conference with ground teams to discuss the training session and address any questions the crew had. They then completed proficiency training covering the mission profile, the rendezvous crew procedures and crew interfaces for monitoring and commanding.
 

