
New Status:
H-II Transfer Vehicle 4 (HTV4) Status:  HTV4 launched successfully Saturday August 3rd at 2:48 PM CDT from Tanegashima Space Center, Japan. Capture and berthing are planned for Friday August 9th at 6:30 AM CDT. Over the weekend, Reaction Control System (RCS) and Main Engines thruster testing and leak checks were performed on both strings. All systems were nominal, however, early this afternoon the forward RCS latching valve closed unexpectedly resulting in an an attitude excursion of about 5 degrees. HTV automatically switched from RCS String A to String B and is back in attitude and operating nominally at this time. Preliminary assessment is that this is a sensor issue and not a problem with the actual latch or valve. HTV specialists are currently reviewing the data to understand the issue and to develop a forward plan.
On-Board Training (OBT) HTV Offset Grapple: Flight Engineer (FE)-3 Cassidy, FE-Parmitano and FE-6 Nyberg practiced offset grapples in preparation for capture. During this session, they performed several approaches with the Space Station Remote Manipulator System (SSRMS) to practice maneuvering over the grapple pin to simulate HTV capture. Following completion of the training the ground team maneuvered the SSRMS back into High Hover (HH) position in preparation for capture. This was the 2nd of 2 planned training sessions. The 1st was performed on July 29th.
Robonaut Operations: Cassidy prepared Robonaut for today’s taskboard operations which were executed by the Robonaut Principal Investigator (PI) on the ground. He configured the video, set up the taskboard and assembled the Robonaut hardware. Robonaut is a dexterous humanoid robot designed with the versatility and dexterity to manipulate hardware, exhibit greater endurance than humans and react safely when bumped or interacted with in a way that was not expected.  Robonaut is currently deployed inside the ISS, however, future project goals include mobility in both inside the ISS and outside the ISS in the Extravehicular Environment.
Airlock Video Troubleshooting: Parmitano executed procedures to determine the cause of problems with the video system that were seen earlier. Troubleshooting was performed on the Internal Camera Port (ICP) Interface (I/F) Cable, Audio Visual I/F Unit (AVIU) and Common Visual I/F Unit (CVIU). CVIU output voltage was measured in multiple states:  open circuit, connected to the AVIU, and connected to the AVIU with various loads (XF305 Camcorder or Minicam). Ground teams are assessing results.
Payload Multiplexer / Demultiplexer (PLMDM) Transition: On Sunday, the PLMDM1 unexpectedly transitioned to PLMDM2 when PLMDM1 loss communications with the Command & Control (C&C) MDM. There was a Permanent Missing Interval (PMI) of 15 min 33 sec data loss during the transition.  Also, due to the unplanned reset the STP-H3 Massive Heat Transfer Experiment (MHTEX) and the Variable Emissivity Radiator Aerogel Insulation Blanket Dual Zone Thermal Control Experiment Suite for  Responsive Space (VADER) lost science data until the STP-H3 payload team arrived on console to reset their payloads Loss of science data was 6 hours and 40 mins due to Payload Developer not being on console at the time.  PLMDM1 was powered back on without any failure indications. Data gathering of the failure is ongoing.
Urine Processing Assembly (UPA) Status:  Last Thursday, the UPA shut down due to a fault as a result of high pressure in the system.  Data was downlinked for review by ground specialists and based on their review the recommendation is to remove and replace the Pressure Control and Pump Assembly (PCPA) with one of two on orbit spares.

