ISS On-Orbit Status 08/06/12
 
All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.     Underway:  Week 6 of Increment 32 (six-person crew).
 
At wakeup, FE-2 Revin performed the routine inspection of the SM (Service Module) PSS Caution &amp; Warning panel as part of regular Daily Morning Inspection.
 
CDR Padalka conducted the weekly checkup behind ASU/toilet panel 139 in the SM of a fluid connector (MNR-NS) of the SM-U urine collection system, looking for potential moisture.
 
FE-5 Williams began another round of acoustic dosimeter operations, today donning a crew-worn dosimeter (#1005) for measurements for the next 24 hrs.
 
In the course of the day, Sunita also successively set up four power tool batteries (Makita Batteries) for charging for upcoming ICV (Integrated Cardiovascular) Ambulatory Monitoring sessions.
 
Gennady spent several hours on SM outfitting, reviewing and then installing a manual antenna switch (RAP) for the Kurs-P (passive) autopilot system with its HF (high-frequency) cabling behind the SM medical locker.
 
Later, the CDR performed an audit on GFI-1 Relaksatsiya (Relaxation) payload equipment, inventorying &amp; photographing the contents of three kits (Relaksatsiya storage bag, Adapter bracket kit, Spectrometer kit), then taking pictures of the space behind the GFI-1 panels, to be downlinked via high-speed RSPI Data Transmission Radio Link.
 
Inventorying was also a major task of FE-2 Revin who spent several hours auditing the onboard set of SMV Intermodular Ventilation equipment for the DC1 Pirs Docking Compartment (Bag 00054996R), accompanied by taking documentary photography of the contents for subsequent RSPI downlink for IMS (Inventory Management System) updating. 
 
FE-3 Acaba started another sampling run with the AQM (Air Quality Monitor), deactivating the system ~5 hrs later.       [Consisting of the EHS GC/DMS (Environmental Health Systems Gas Chromatograph / Differential Mobility Spectrometer), the system is controlled with “Sionex” expert software from the SSC (Station Support Computer)-12 laptop.  The AQM demonstrates COTS (Commercial Off-the-Shelf) technology for identifying volatile organic compounds, similar to the VOA (Volatile Organics Analyzer).  This evaluation will continue over the course of several months as it helps to eventually certify the GC/DMS as nominal CHeCS (Crew Health Care Systems) hardware.]
 
Using the electrical compressor (#41) with pressure adapter, FE-4 Malenchenko performed the regular bladder leak check on the empty Tank 2 of the ATV3 WDS (Automated Transfer Vehicle 3 Water Distribution System), first pressurizing its bladder and after the leak check depressurizing it again.      [Since the ATV cabin fan has been switched off since 8/1 in order to preserve its lifetime (until the upcoming O<sub>2</sub> transfer), a continual crew presence in ATV during compressor operation is required for fire detection.] 
 
Afterwards, Yuri started his first session of the standard 24-hour ECG (electrocardiogram) recording under the Russian MedOps PZE MO-2-1 protocol which monitors human cardiovascular performance in the space flight environment.       [After 24 hrs of ECG recording and blood pressure measurements with the Kardiomed (CDM) system, Malenchenko will doff the five-electrode Holter harness that read his dynamic (in motion) heart function from two leads and recorded on the “Kardioregistrator 90205” unit.  The examination results will then be downloaded from the Holter ECG device to the RSE-Med laptop, controlled by the Kardiomed application.  Later, the data will be downlinked as a compressed .zip-file via OCA.]
 
Working in the US A/L (Airlock) on the BSA (Battery Stowage Assembly), Sunita Williams terminated the charge/discharge cycle on EVA-31 batteries and stowed one REBA (Rechargeable EVA Battery) and 2 HL (Helmet Light) batteries in a bag for the spacewalk.
 
With Sunita taking historical photography, FE-3 Acaba set up the camcorder for recording his subsequent BCAT-C1 (Binary Colloidal Alloy Test C1) activities, then conducted sample homogenization and several runs for SFU and NYU experimenters.     [Major differences to other BCATs are specific flash angle, increased lens-to-SGM distance, and the freedom to use the focus adjustment ring.]
 
After setting up the DOUG (Dynamic Onboard Ubiquitous Graphics) application on SSCs (Station Support Computers) 16 &amp; 11, transferring the laptops from Lab/Node-2 to the JPM (JEM Pressurized Module), leaving the Lab camera connected to the AVIU (Advanced Video Interface Unit) and converting SSC15 to wired operation for best streaming video performance, Aki Hoshide &amp; Joe Acaba used the Japanese RMS MA (Robotic Manipulator System Main Arm) to grapple the HTV-EP (H-II Transfer Vehicle Exposed Pallet) from the SSRMS and then transfer it from the handover position to the EFU10 (Exposed Facility Unit 10 of the external EF, installing it via its capture latches.  The video was downlinked via MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter).      [RMS was then deactivated and the equipment closed out.  EP was handed over from SSRMS to JEMRMS overnight by ground commanding.]
 
Later, Hoshide started his first JAXA BLR48 (Biological Rhythms 48/BIORHYTHMS) experiment, with an Actiwatch with BLR48 software and the medical laptop.      [First, Aki uses Holter 1 for data recording, then swapping it within 24 hrs (and 10 min after power-up) with Holter 2.]
 
Williams conducted her 2<sup>nd</sup> session with the RFx (Reversible Figures) experiment payload in COL (Columbus Orbital Laboratory), first adjusting the VCA1 (Video Cameras Assembly 1) for coverage, then connecting the RFx hardware to the ESA MPLT (Multipurpose Payload Laptop), followed  by performance of the science protocol in free-floating position.  Session data were then copied to PCMCIA memory card, and the hardware stowed.      [RFx is an ESA experiment designed to investigate the adaptive nature of the human neuro-vestibular system in the processing of gravitational information related to 3D visual perception. The Reversible Figures investigation involves comparisons of pre-flight, in-flight, and post-flight perceptions with regards to ambiguous perspective-reversible figures to assess the influence of micro-G.  The question is whether the perception of ambiguous perspective-reversible figures (figures that can normally be seen in 1g to change in perspective or orientation in two different ways) is affected by micro-G.  A comparison of the perceived reversals during visualization of the figures in crewmembers occurs before, during and after long-term exposure to microgravity.  It is expected that measurable, perceptual differences can expand our understanding of human cognitive-perception dynamics by examining the differences that exist between the micro-G environment of the ISS and that of the Earth’s surface.  The hypothesis that the perceived reversal of 2D figures is not affected in micro-G is to be verified by determining for all phases of the spaceflight: (1) the time for first reversal and the number of perceived reversals of 3D and 2D reversible figures in a given time frame; and (2) the probability for seeing each view/reversal within a figure.]
 
In preparation for tomorrow’s scheduled FSL VMU (Fluid Science Laboratory Video Management Unit) maintenance of installing EMI (Electro-Magnetic Interference) filters, FE-5 had ~15 min for gathering the necessary equipment &amp; tools.
 
Suni also performed ~3.5 hrs of IFM (In-Flight Maintenance) on the WRS-2 (Water Recovery System 2) Rack’s Recycle Tank in Node-3, first retrieving required gear from stowage, then using the RFTA (Recycle Filter Tank Assembly) modification kit to modify WRS-2 to accept the RFTA and associated filters, followed by installation of the Recycle Tank, filters and depress hose for nominal UPA (Urine Processor Assembly) processing.
 
Sergei Revin removed an old-style SD1-5 lighting fixture in the SM and replaced it with a new-generation SSD 301 unit, then moved on  to the MRM1 Rassvet module to swap 4 SD1-7 light units with new SD1-7 fixtures (on panels 301, 303, 308 &amp; 310).
 
Afterwards, FE-2 completed the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM.      [Regular daily SOZh maintenance consists, among else, of checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers, replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers and filling EDV-SV, KOV (for Elektron), EDV-ZV &amp; EDV on RP flow regulator.]
 
Revin also took care of the daily IMS maintenance, updating/editing its standard “delta file” including stowage locations, for the regular weekly automated export/import to its three databases on the ground (Houston, Moscow, Baikonur).
 
Joe reviewed procedural material on tomorrow’s major IFM at the CIR (Combustion Integrated Rack) where he needs to replace the Needle 2 and Igniter Tips in the MDCA CIA (Multi-User Droplet Combustion Apparatus Chamber Insert Assembly).      [Following these replacements, the ground can resume MDCA FLEX-2 Quiescent &amp; Convective Flow test points.]
 
FE-6 Hoshide reviewed tomorrow’s planned EPO (Education Payload Operations) demo of Spatial Orientation, studying procedures, gathering materials and preparing for the demo.
 
Padalka &amp; Malenchenko spent several hours transferring cargo from Progress 48P to the ISS, tracking moves for the IMS database.
 
Shortly before sleeptime, Aki begins his first experiment with the onboard DK (Diagnostic Kit), to continue for 2 straight days with brainwave measurements.     [Starting tonight with the first (of 2) EEG (Electroencephalograph) recordings of brainwaves overnight during sleep, a second EEG overnight session will follow tomorrow.  Purpose of these activities is to perform diagnostic measurements with medical equipment in order to evaluate the equipment for development of a future diagnostic system on board.  DK includes: Medical laptop, USB Camera, Pulse Oximeter, Stethoscope, Sleep Monitor and Digital Walk Holter/Electrocardiograph and Electroencephalograph (for brain waves).]
 
Suni had a time slot/placeholder reserved for making entries in her electronic Journal on the personal SSC (Station Support Computer).    [Required are three journaling sessions per week.]
 
Before Presleep, FE-3 Acaba turns on the MPC (Multi-Protocol Converter) and start the Ku-band data flow of video recorded during the day to the ground, with POIC (Payload Operations &amp; Integration Center) routing the onboard HRDL (High-Rate Data Link).  After about an hour, Joe turns MPC routing off again.        [This is a routine operation which regularly transmits HD onboard video (live or tape playback) to the ground on a daily basis before sleeptime.]
 
The crew worked out on the CEVIS cycle ergometer with vibration isolation (FE-5), TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-2, FE-4), ARED advanced resistive exerciser (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-5, FE-6), and VELO ergometer bike with load trainer (FE-2, FE-4).
 
After his workout on the T2 machine, Joe closed down the treadmill software on its laptop for data transfer, then turned off the T2 display.     [After the display shutdown, the T2 rack is power cycled (turned off/on) from the ground, and T2 is then ready for use.  These power cycles allow for the T2 data to be transferred to the Server for downlink.] 
 
Tasks listed for Revin, Malenchenko &amp; Padalka on the Russian discretionary “time permitting” job for today were –
<ul style="margin-top:0in" type="disc"><li class="MsoNormal" style="color:black;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">A ~30-min. session for Russia's EKON Environmental Safety Agency, making observations and taking KPT-3 aerial photography of environmental conditions on Earth using the NIKON D3X camera with the RSK-1 laptop, and</li><li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-list:l0 level1 lfo1">More preparation &amp; downlinking of reportages (written text, photos, videos) for the Roskosmos website to promote Russia’s manned space program (max. file size 500 Mb).</li></ul> 
No CEO (Crew Earth Observation) targets uplinked for today.
 

