ISS On-Orbit Status 08/01/10
 
 All ISS systems continue to function nominally, except those noted previously or below.    Sunday – crew rest day (? see below).  Ahead: Week 9 of Increment 24
 
 Upon wake-up, CDR Skvortsov performed the regular daily early-morning check of the aerosol filters at the Russian Elektron O<sub>2</sub> generator which Maxim Suraev had installed on 10/19/09 in gaps between the BZh Liquid Unit and the oxygen outlet pipe (filter FA-K) plus hydrogen outlet pipe (filter FA-V).     [The CDR will inspect the filters again before bedtime, currently a daily requirement per plan, with photographs to be taken if the filter packing is discolored.]
 
 FE-2 Caldwell-Dyson, FE-4 Wheelock &amp; FE-6 Walker continued the current week-long session of the post-wakeup experiment SLEEP (Sleep-Wake Actigraphy &amp; Light Exposure during Spaceflight), 2<sup>nd</sup> for Doug &amp; Shannon, 6<sup>th</sup> for Tracy, transferring data from their Actiwatches to the HRF-1 (Human Research Facility 1) laptop.     [To monitor his/her sleep/wake patterns and light exposure, the crewmember wears a special Actiwatch device which measures the light levels encountered by him/her as well as their patterns of sleep and activity throughout the Expedition, using the payload software for data logging and filling in questionnaire entries in the experiment’s laptop session file on the HRF-1 laptop.  The log entries are done within 15 minutes of final awakening for seven consecutive days.]
 
 Also at wake-up, Caldwell-Dyson completed another run of the Reaction Self Test (Psychomotor Vigilance Self Test on the ISS) protocol.     [The RST is performed twice daily (after wakeup &amp; before bedtime) for 3 days prior to the sleep shift, the day(s) of the sleep shift and 5 days following a sleep shift. The experiment consists of a 5-minute reaction time task that allows crewmembers to monitor the daily effects of fatigue on performance while on ISS.  The experiment provides objective feedback on neurobehavioral changes in attention, psychomotor speed, state stability, and impulsivity while on ISS missions, particularly as they relate to changes in circadian rhythms, sleep restrictions, and extended work shifts.]
 
 FE-5 Yurchikhin did the routine daily servicing of the SOZh system (Environment Control &amp; Life Support System, ECLSS) in the SM (Service Module), including the weekly collection of the toilet flush (SP) counter and water supply (SVO) readings for calldown to TsUP-Moscow.     [This includes checking the ASU toilet facilities, replacement of the KTO &amp; KBO solid waste containers and replacement of EDV-SV waste water and EDV-U urine containers].
 
 Fyodor also performed the weekly checkup on the Russian POTOK-150MK (150 micron) air filter unit of the SM’s SOGS air revitalization subsystem, gathering weekly data on total operating time &amp; “On” durations for reporting to TsUP.
 
 An additional task for Fyodor in the SM was the routine weekly inspection of the SVO SRV-K2M (Condensate Water Processor) hoses from the MF-R Diaphragm Separator Filter to the BRPK Condensate Separation &amp; Pumping Unit.
 
 FE-3 Kornienko initiated overnight (10-hr) charging of the KPT-2 Piren battery for the new Piren-B Pyro-endoscope, part of the Russian BAR science instruments suite (other BAR components being the ТТМ-2 Anemometer-Thermometer, the charger cable, and the video display unit).      [Piren-B, a video-endoscope with pyrosensor, is part of the methods &amp; means being used on ISS for detecting tiny leaks in ISS modules which could lead to cabin depressurization.  Objective of the Russian KPT-12/EXPERT science payload is to measure environmental parameters (temperature, humidity, air flow rate) and module shell surface temperatures behind SM panels and other areas susceptible to possible micro-destruction (corrosion), before and after insolation (day vs. night).  Besides Piren-B, the payload uses a remote infrared thermometer (Kelvin-Video), a thermohygrometer (Iva-6A), a heat-loss thermoanemometer/thermometer (TTM-2) and an ultrasound analyzer (AU) to determine environmental data in specific locations and at specific times.  Activities include documentary photography with the NIKON D2X camera and flash.]
 
 Working in the WHC (Waste &amp; Hygiene Compartment), FE-6 Walker configured it for using an internal EDV-U container as reception tank, until the current RFTA is replaced with a new unit (tomorrow, 8/2).
 
 The crew worked out on today’s 2-hr physical exercise protocol on the TVIS treadmill with vibration isolation &amp; stabilization (CDR, FE-3, FE-5, FE-6), ARED advanced resistive exercise device (CDR, FE-2, FE-3, FE-4, FE-5), and T2/COLBERT advanced treadmill (FE-2, FE-6).    [T2 snubber arm inspection is no longer needed after every T2 session but must be done after the last T2 session of the day.]
 
 FE-4, FE-5 &amp; FE-6 had their weekly PFCs (Private Family Conferences) via S-band/audio and Ku-band/MS-NetMeeting application (which displays the uplinked ground video on an SSC laptop), Fyodor at ~7:45am, Wheels at ~10:00am, Shannon at ~12:30pm EDT.
 
 No CEO (Crew Earth Observations) targets uploaded.
 
 Thermal Loop A ETCS Pump Shutdown:    After losing one cooling system pump (of two), ISS is currently stable, although thermally on single string (no redundancy).  Last night (at 7:48pm EDT) RPC1 (Remote Power Controller 1) in RPCM (RPC Module) S11A_D tripped open, powering off the Loop A ammonia pump of the S1 ETCS (External Thermal Control System), resulting in the loss of one half of the cooling to ISS.
 This required a number of powerdowns (i.e., turning off selected systems for thermal protection), including redundant power to four CQs (Crew Quarters), three in Node-2, one in Kibo JPM, with both fans in each CQ remaining functional but zero fault-tolerant (crew is still Go for CQ use).  Due to loss of heater power, MBS (Mobile Base System), SSRMS (Space Station Remote Manipulator System), and SPDM (Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator) are currently zero fault-tolerant.  T2/COLBERT treadmill alignment guides are installed and should remain installed during crew sleep periods to protect against LOAC (Loss of Attitude Control) while attitude control is degraded; the latter also renders use of unisolated exercise (Russian Velo) NoGo to reduce momentum perturbations; all other exercise is currently permitted.  S-band is operating nominally (on String 2, with String 1 in hot backup); Ku-band is operating nominally; audio subsystem is operating nominally (Node-2, COL &amp; JPM are zero fault tolerant for C&amp;W/Caution &amp; Warning annunciation and voice comm); no video from Node-2, Node-3, COL &amp; JPM modules; HCOR (high-rate communications outage recorder) is operating nominally; Russian UHF: no issues, both radios are deactivated.
 Possible causes of the RPC trip include an electrical fault in the cabling between the RPCM and ammonia pump, electrical fault in the EMI (electromagnetic interference) filter, electrical fault in the pump control board, or an electrical fault in the pump.  The RPC tripped because of an overcurrent; this points toward hardware components that do not have internal current limiting, such as the EMI filter, pump control board, and the pump itself (they get their current limiting function from the RPCM).  A mechanical failure of the pump is considered unlikely.
 After a pump restart attempt this morning, RPC1 tripped again There will be more attempts.
 There are two spare pumps on orbit.  It will take two EVAs to remove and replace the pump.  ISS is stable, but single string, and it is desired to get Loop A back as soon as possible.  The teams are looking at replacing the Thursday (8/5) spacewalk with the first of two EVAs, followed by the second EVA on 8/7 (Saturday).  The spacewalks need special planning since the system is in a reduced power configuration.
 
 

